(d) When any person acting in a representative capacity appears in person or signs a paper in practice before the Postal Service his personal appearance or signature shall constitute a representation to the Postal Service that under the provisions of this part and the law he is authorized and qualified to represent the particular party in whose behalf he acts. The Postal Service does not generally take formal action or issue any certificate to show that an individual is eligible to practice before it. (See § 951.4.)
§ 951.3
Persons ineligible for admission to practice.
(a) No person disbarred from practice before the Postal Service or in any other executive department of any of the governmental entities mentioned in § 951.2(c) will be eligible to practice before the Postal Service until said order of disbarment shall have been revoked.
(b) Any person who, subsequently to being admitted to practice before the Postal Service, is disbarred by any governmental entity mentioned in § 951.2(c) shall be deemed suspended from practice before the Postal Service during the pendency of said order or disbarment.
(c) No person who has been an attorney, officer, clerk, or employee in the Postal Service will be recognized as attorney for prosecuting before it or any office thereof any case or matter which he was in anywise connected while he was such attorney, officer, clerk, or employee.
(d) No person coming within the prohibitions of 18 U.S.C. 203, 205, or 207, will be recognized as attorney before the Postal Service or any office thereof.
§ 951.4
Authorization of appearance may be required.
The Judicial Officer, the head of any department of the Postal Service or any Administrative Law Judge may require any person to present satisfactory evidence of his authority to represent the person for whom he appears.
§ 951.5
Complaint of misconduct.
(a) If the head of any department of the Postal Service has reason to believe, or if complaint be made to him, that any person is guilty of conduct subjecting him to suspension or disbarment, the head of such office shall report the same to the Judicial Officer.
(b) Whenever any person submits to the Judicial Officer a complaint against any person who has practiced, is practicing or holding himself out as entitled to practice before the Postal Service, the Judicial Officer may refer such complaint to the Chief Inspector for a complete investigation and report.
(c) At any time, the Judicial Officer may refer the complaint to the General Counsel for the preparation of formal charges to be lodged against and served upon the person against whom the complaint has been made.
§ 951.6
Censure, suspension or disbarment; grounds.
(a) The Judicial Officer may censure, suspend or disbar any person against whom a complaint has been made and upon whom charges have been served as provided in § 951.5 if he finds that such person:
(1) Does not possess the qualifications required by § 951.2;
(2) Has failed to conform to standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners at the Bar of any court of which he is a member;
(3) Represents, as an associate, an attorney who, known to him, solicits practice by means of runners or other unethical methods;
(4) By use of his name, personal appearance, or any device, aids or abets an attorney to practice during the period of his suspension or disbarment, such suspension or disbarment being known to him;
(5) Displays toward the Judicial Officer, Board of Contract Appeals or any
Administrative Law Judge assigned to the Postal Service, conduct which, if displayed toward any court of any State, the United States, any of its Territories or the District of Columbia, would be cause for censure, suspension or disbarment; or
(6) Is otherwise guilty of misconduct or lacking in character or professional integrity.
(b) Before any person shall be censured, suspended or disbarred, he shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard by the Judicial Officer on the charges made against him. The General Counsel or his designee shall prosecute such cases.
(c) In the event the Judicial Officer is unavailable for any reason, he may assign complaints of misconduct to the Associate Judicial Officer, an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, an Administrative Judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, or some other disinterested member of the headquarters staff of the Postal Service recommended by the Deputy Postmaster General, for the determinations required by § 951.5, the conduct of the hearings, and the decision to censure, suspend, or debar persons as provided herein.
[36 FR 11562, June 16, 1971, as amended at 51 FR 16517, May 5, 1986]
§ 951.7
Notice of disbarment; exclusion from practice.
Upon the disbarment of any person, notice thereof will be given to the heads of the departments of the Postal Service and to the other Executive Departments, and thereafter, until otherwise ordered, such disbarred persons will not be entitled to practice before the Postal Service or any department thereof.
§ 951.8
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d) and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
[42 FR 5357, Jan. 28, 1977]
Pt. 952

# PART 952—FALSE REPRESENTATION AND LOTTERY ORDERS
Sec.
952.1
Authority.
952.2
Scope.
952.3
Informal dispositions.
952.4
Office business hours; electronic filing.
952.5
Complaints.
952.6
Interim impounding.
952.7
Notice of docketing and answer.
952.8
Service.
952.9
Filing; docketing and serving documents.
952.10
Answer.
952.11
Default.
952.12
Amendment of pleadings.
952.13
Continuances and extensions.
952.14
Hearings.
952.15
Change of place of hearings.
952.16
Appearances.
952.17
Presiding officers.
952.18
Evidence.
952.19
Subpoenas.
952.20
Witness fees.
952.21
Discovery.
952.22
Transcript.
952.23
Proposed findings and conclusions.
952.24
Decisions.
952.25
Exceptions to initial decision or tentative decision.
952.26
Judicial Officer.
952.27
Motion for reconsideration.
952.28
Orders.
952.29
Modification or revocation of orders.
952.30
Supplemental orders.
952.31
Computation of time.
952.32
Official record.
952.33
Public information.
952.34
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3001, 3005, 3012, 3016; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
76 FR 36320, June 22, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 952.1
Authority.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the United States Postal Service (see § 952.26) pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General, and in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 3005, and are governed by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551,
et seq.
§ 952.2
Scope.
These rules of practice shall be applicable in all formal proceedings before the Postal Service under 39 U.S.C. 3005, including such cases instituted under prior rules of practice pertaining to these or predecessor statutes, unless
timely shown to be prejudicial to Respondent.
§ 952.3
Informal dispositions.
This part does not preclude the disposition of any matter by agreement between the parties either before or after the filing of a complaint when time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit.
§ 952.4
Office business hours; electronic filing.
(a) The offices of the officials identified in these rules are located at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.
(b) The Judicial Officer electronic filing system website is accessible 24 hours a day at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com.
[81 FR 40192, June 21, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 61020, July 30, 2024]
§ 952.5
Complaints.
When the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designated representative believes that a person is using the mails in a manner requiring formal administrative action under 39 U.S.C. 3005, he or she shall prepare and file with the Recorder a complaint which names the person involved; states the name, address and telephone number of the attorney representing Complainant; states the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the proceeding is initiated; states the facts in a manner sufficient to enable the person named therein to answer; and requests the issuance of an appropriate order or orders and/or the assessment of civil penalties. Complainant shall attach to the complaint a copy of the order or orders requested which may, at any time during the proceedings, be modified. The person named in the complaint shall be known as “Respondent”, and the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee shall be known as “Complainant”. The term “person” (1 U.S.C. 1) shall include any name, address, number or other designation under or by use of which Respondent seeks remittances of money or property through the mail.
§ 952.6
Interim impounding.
In preparation for or during the pendency of a proceeding initiated under 39 U.S.C. 3005, mail addressed to Respondent may be impounded upon obtaining an appropriate order from a United States District Court, as provided in 39 U.S.C. 3007.
§ 952.7
Notice of docketing and answer.
(a) Upon receipt of a complaint filed against a Respondent whose mailing address is within the United States, the Recorder shall issue a notice of docketing and answer due date stating the date for an answer which shall not exceed 30 days from the service of the complaint and a reference to the effect of failure to file an answer and/or the assessment of civil penalties authorized by 39 U.S.C. 3012. (See §§ 952.10 and 952.11).
(b) Upon receipt of a complaint filed against a Respondent whose mailing address is not within the United States, the Judicial Officer shall review the complaint and any supporting information and determine whether a prima facie showing has been made that Respondent is engaged in conduct warranting issuance of the orders authorized by 39 U.S.C. 3005(a). Where the Judicial Officer concludes that a prima facie showing has not been made the complaint shall be dismissed. Where the Judicial Officer concludes that a prima facie showing has been made, he or she shall issue a tentative decision and orders which:
(1) Set forth findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) Direct Respondent to cease and desist from engaging in conduct warranting the issuance of an order authorized by 39 U.S.C. 3005(a);
(3) Direct that postal money orders drawn to the order of Respondent not be paid for 45 days from date of the tentative decision;
(4) Direct that mail addressed to Respondent be forwarded to designated facilities and detained for 45 days from the date of the tentative decision subject to survey by Respondent and release of mail unrelated to the matter complained of;
(5) Tentatively assess such civil penalties as he considers appropriate under applicable law; and
(6) Provide that unless Respondent presents, within 45 days of the date of the tentative decision, good cause for dismissing the complaint, or modifying the tentative decision and orders, the tentative decision and orders shall become final.
(c) The Judicial Officer may, upon a showing of good cause made within 45 days of the date of the tentative decision, hold a hearing to determine whether the tentative decision and orders should be revoked, modified, or allowed to become final. Should a hearing be granted, the Judicial Officer may modify the tentative decision and orders to extend the time during which the payment of postal money orders payable to Respondent is suspended and mail addressed to Respondent is detained.
§ 952.8
Service.
(a) Where Respondent's mailing address is within the United States, the Recorder shall cause a notice of docketing and answer due date (the “Notice”), a copy of these rules of practice, and a copy of the complaint to be transmitted to Complainant who shall serve those documents upon Respondent or his or her agent by certified mail, return receipt requested. Service shall be complete upon mailing. A receipt acknowledging delivery of the notice shall be secured from Respondent or his or her agent and forwarded to the Recorder, U.S. Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, to become a part of the official record. In the absence of a receipt, Complainant shall file an Affidavit of Service, along with returned undelivered mail, or other appropriate evidence of service, with the Recorder. In the alternative Complainant may, in its discretion, effectuate service by hand on Respondent and file an Affidavit of Service with the Recorder.
(b) Where the only address against which Complainant seeks relief is outside the United States, a copy of the complaint, the tentative decision, and a copy of these rules of practice shall be sent by international mail, return receipt requested, by the Recorder to the address cited in the complaint. A written statement by the Recorder noting the time and place of mailing shall be accepted as evidence of service in the event a signed return receipt is not returned to the Recorder.
§ 952.9
Filing; docketing and serving documents.
(a) Unless the presiding officer permits otherwise, all documents must be filed using the electronic filing system. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Discovery need not be filed except as may be sought to be included in the record, or as may be ordered by the presiding officer.
(b) Documents shall be dated and state the docket number and title of the proceeding. Any pleading or other document required by order of the presiding officer to be filed by a specified date must be received in the electronic filing system or by the Recorder on or before such date. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
[81 FR 40192, June 21, 2016]
§ 952.10
Answer.
(a) The answer shall contain a concise statement admitting, denying, or explaining each of the allegations set forth in the complaint.
(b) Any facts alleged in the complaint which are not denied or are expressly admitted in the answer may be considered as proved, and no further evidence regarding these facts need be adduced at the hearing.
(c) The answer shall be signed personally by an individual Respondent, or in the case of a partnership by one of the
partners, or, in the case of a corporation or association, by an officer thereof.
(d) The answer shall set forth Respondent's address, electronic mail address, and telephone number or the name, address, electronic mail address, and telephone number of an attorney representing Respondent.
(e) The answer shall affirmatively state whether the Respondent will appear in person or by counsel at the hearing.
(f) In lieu of appearing at the hearing in person or by counsel, Respondent may request that the matter be submitted for determination pursuant to § 952.17(b)(10).
§ 952.11
Default.
(a) If Respondent fails to file an answer within the time specified in the notice of docketing and answer, Respondent may be deemed in default, and to have waived hearing and further procedural steps. The Judicial Officer may thereafter issue orders and/or assess civil penalties without further notice.
(b) If Respondent files an answer but fails to appear at the hearing, Respondent may, unless timely indications to the contrary are received, be deemed to have abandoned the intention to present a defense to the charges of the complaint, and the Judicial Officer, without further notice to Respondent, may issue the orders and/or assess civil penalties sought in the complaint.
(c) If Respondent or Complainant fails to respond to or comply with an order of the presiding officer, the party may be held in default, and absent good cause shown, the party may be deemed to have abandoned the intention to present a defense, or to prosecute the complaint, and the presiding officer or Judicial Officer, without further notice to the offending party, may, as appropriate, dismiss the complaint or issue the orders and/or assess civil penalties sought in the complaint.
§ 952.12
Amendment of pleadings.
(a) Amendments shall be filed with the Recorder.
(b) By consent of the parties, a pleading may be amended at any time. Also, a party may move to amend a pleading at any time prior to the close of the hearing and, provided that the amendment is reasonably within the scope of the proceeding initiated by the complaint, the presiding officer rule on the motion as he or she deems to be fair and equitable to the parties.
(c) When issues not raised by the pleadings but reasonably within the scope of the proceedings initiated by the complaint are tried by express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings. Such amendments as may be necessary to conform the pleadings to the evidence and to raise such issues may be allowed at any time upon the motion of any party.
(d) If a party objects to the introduction of evidence at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the pleadings, but fails to satisfy the presiding officer that an amendment of the pleadings would prejudice him or her on the merits, the presiding officer may allow the pleadings to be amended and may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to rebut the evidence presented.
(e) The presiding officer may, upon reasonable notice and upon such terms as are just, permit service of a supplemental pleading setting forth transactions, occurrences, or events which have occurred since the date of the pleading sought to be supplemented and which are relevant to any of the issues involved.
§ 952.13
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions will not be granted by the presiding officer except for good cause shown.
§ 952.14
Hearings.
Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, or other locations designated by the presiding officer. Time, date, and location for the hearing shall be set by the presiding officer in his or her sole discretion.
§ 952.15
Change of place of hearings.
(a) A party may file a request that a hearing be held to receive evidence in his or her behalf at a place other than that designated in § 952.14. The party
shall support the request with a statement outlining:
(1) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(2) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify; and,
(3) The reasons why such evidence cannot be produced at Arlington, VA.
(b) The presiding officer shall give consideration to the convenience and necessity of the parties and witnesses and the relevance of the evidence to be offered.
§ 952.16
Appearances.
(a) Respondent may appear and be heard in person or by attorney. A Notice of Appearance must be filed by any attorney representing Respondent.
(b) An attorney may practice before the Postal Service in accordance with applicable rules issued by the Judicial Officer. See 39 CFR Part 951.
(c) When Respondent is represented by an attorney, all pleadings and other papers subsequent to the complaint shall be mailed to the attorney.
(d) Withdrawal by any attorney representing a party must be preceded by a motion to withdraw stating the reasons therefore, and shall be granted in the discretion of the presiding officer. If a successor attorney is not appointed at the same time, withdrawing counsel shall provide adequate contact information for Respondent.
(e) Parties must promptly file a notice of change of attorney.
§ 952.17
Presiding officers.
(a) The presiding officer at any hearing shall be an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law or the Judicial Officer (39 U.S.C. 204). The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign cases. The Judicial Officer may, for good cause shown, preside at the hearing if an Administrative Law Judge is unavailable.
(b) The presiding officer shall have authority to:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Examine witnesses;
(3) Rule upon offers of proof, admissibility of evidence, and matters of procedure;
(4) Order any pleading amended upon motion of a party at any time prior to the close of the hearing;
(5) Maintain discipline and decorum and exclude from the hearing any person acting in an inappropriate manner;
(6) Require the filing of briefs or memoranda of law on any matter upon which he or she is required to rule;
(7) Order prehearing conferences for the purpose of the settlement or simplification of issues by the parties;
(8) Order the proceeding reopened at any time prior to his or her decision for the receipt of additional evidence;
(9) Render an initial decision, which becomes the final agency decision unless a timely appeal is taken, except that the Judicial Officer may issue a tentative or a final decision;
(10) Rule on motion by either party, or on his or her own initiative, for a determination on the written record in lieu of an oral hearing in his or her sole discretion;
(11) Rule on motion by either party, or on his or her own initiative, to permit a hearing to be conducted by telephone, video conference, or other appropriate means;
(12) Rule upon applications and requests filed under §§ 952.19 and 952.21; and
(13) Exercise all other authority conferred upon the presiding officer by the Administrative Procedure Act or other applicable law.
§ 952.18
Evidence.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in these rules, the Federal Rules of Evidence shall govern. However, such rules may be relaxed to the extent that the presiding officer deems proper to ensure a fair hearing. The presiding officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or repetitious evidence.
(b) Testimony shall be under oath or affirmation and witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination.
(c) Agreed statements of fact may be received in evidence.
(d) Official notice, judicial notice or administrative notice of appropriate information may be taken in the discretion of the presiding officer.
(e) Authoritative writings of the medical or other sciences may be admitted in evidence, but only through
the testimony of expert witnesses or by stipulation.
(f) Lay testimonials may be received in evidence as proof of the efficacy or quality of any product, service, or thing sold through the mails, in the discretion of the presiding officer.
(g) The written statement of a competent witness may be received in evidence provided that such statement is relevant to the issues, that the witness shall testify under oath at the hearing that the statement is in all respects true, and, in the case of expert witnesses, that the statement correctly states the witness's opinion or knowledge concerning the matters in question.
(h) A party which objects to the admission of evidence shall explain the grounds for the objection. Formal exceptions to the rulings of the presiding officer are unnecessary.
§ 952.19
Subpoenas.
(a)
General.
Upon written request of either party filed with the Recorder or on his or her own initiative, the presiding officer may issue a subpoena requiring:
(1)
Testimony at a deposition.
The deposing of a witness in the city or county where the witness resides or is employed or transacts business in person, or at another location convenient for the witness that is specifically determined by the presiding officer;
(2)
Testimony at a hearing.
The attendance of a witness for the purpose of taking testimony at a hearing; and
(3)
Production of records.
The production by the witness at a deposition or hearing of records designated in the subpoena.
(b)
Voluntary cooperation.
Each party is expected:
(1) To cooperate and make available witnesses and evidence under its possession, custody or control as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena, and
(2) To secure voluntary production of desired third-party records whenever possible.
(c)
Requests for subpoenas.
(1) A request for a subpoena shall to the extent practical be filed:
(i) At the same time a request for deposition is filed; or
(ii) Fifteen (15) days before a scheduled hearing where the attendance of a witness at a hearing is sought.
(2) A request for a subpoena shall state the reasonable scope and relevance to the case of the testimony and of any records sought.
(3) The presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, may honor requests for subpoenas not presented within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.
(d)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Upon written request by the person subpoenaed or by a party, the presiding officer may:
(i) Quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable, oppressive or for other good cause shown, or
(ii) Require the person in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed records. Where circumstances require, the presiding officer may act upon such a request at any time after a copy has been served upon the opposing party.
(2) Motions to quash or modify a subpoena shall be filed within 10 days of service, or at least one day prior to any scheduled hearing, whichever first occurs. The presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, may entertain motions to quash or modify not made within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.
(e)
Form; issuance.
(1) Every subpoena shall state the title of the proceeding, shall cite 39 U.S.C. 3016(a)(2) as the authority under which it is issued, and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony, and if appropriate, to produce specified records at a time and place therein specified. In issuing a subpoena to a requesting party, the presiding officer shall sign the subpoena and may, in his or her discretion, enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave it blank. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall complete the subpoena before service.
(2) The party at whose instance a subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821, or other applicable law, and of the officer who serves the subpoena. The failure to make payment of
such charges on demand may be deemed by the presiding officer as sufficient ground for striking the testimony of the witness and the evidence the witness has produced.
(f)(1)
Service in general.
The party requesting issuance of a subpoena shall arrange for service.
(2)
Service within the United States.
A subpoena issued under this section may be served by a person designated under 18 U.S.C. 3061 or by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age at any place within the territorial jurisdiction of any court of the United States.
(3)
Service outside the United States.
Any such subpoena may be served upon any person who is not to be found within the territorial jurisdiction of any court of the United States, in such manner as the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure prescribe for service in a foreign country. To the extent that the courts of the United States may assert jurisdiction over such person consistent with due process, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia shall have the same jurisdiction to take any action respecting compliance with this section by such person that such court would have if such person were personally within the jurisdiction of such court.
(4)
Service on business persons.
Service of any such subpoena may be made upon a partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity by:
(i) Delivering a duly executed copy thereof to any partner, executive officer, managing agent, or general agent thereof, or to any agent thereof authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process on behalf of such partnership, corporation, association, or entity;
(ii) Delivering a duly executed copy thereof to the principal office or place of business of the partnership, corporation, association, or entity; or
(iii) Depositing such copy in the United States mails, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, duly addressed to such partnership, corporation, association, or entity at its principal office or place of business.
(5)
Service on natural persons.
Service of any subpoena may be made upon any natural person by:
(i) Delivering a duly executed copy to the person to be served; or
(ii) Depositing such copy in the United States mails, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, duly addressed to such person at his or her residence or principal office or place of business.
(6)
Verified return.
A verified return by the individual serving any such subpoena setting forth the manner of such service shall constitute proof of service. In the case of service by registered or certified mail, such return shall be accompanied by the return post office receipt of delivery of such subpoena, or a statement of service by registered or certified mail in the event that receipt of delivery is unavailable.
(g)
Contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena.
In the case of refusal to obey a subpoena, the Judicial Officer may request the Attorney General to petition the district court for any district in which the person receiving the subpoena resides, is found, or conducts business (or in the case of a person outside the territorial jurisdiction of any district court, the district court for the District of Columbia) to issue an appropriate order for the enforcement of such subpoena. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be punishable as contempt.
§ 952.20
Witness fees.
The Postal Service does not pay fees and expenses for Respondent's witnesses or for depositions requested by Respondent, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer.
§ 952.21
Discovery.
(a)
Voluntary discovery.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures. In connection with any deposition or other discovery procedure, the presiding officer may issue any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, and those orders may include limitations on the scope, method, time and place for discovery, and provisions for protecting
the secrecy of confidential information or documents.
(b)
Discovery disputes.
The parties are required to make a good faith effort to resolve objections to discovery requests informally. A party receiving an objection to a discovery request, or a party which believes that another party's response to a discovery request is incomplete or entirely absent, may file a motion to compel a response, but such a motion must include a representation that the moving party has tried in good faith, prior to filing the motion, to resolve the matter informally. The motion to compel shall include a copy of each discovery request at issue and the response, if any.
(c)
Discovery limitations.
The presiding officer may limit the frequency or extent of use of discovery methods described in these rules. In doing so, generally the presiding officer will consider whether:
(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;
(2) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the case to obtain the information sought; or
(3) The discovery is unduly burdensome and expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, limitations on the parties' resources, and the importance of the issues at stake.
(d)
Interrogatories.
At any time after service of the complaint, a party may serve on the other party written interrogatories to be answered separately in writing, signed under oath and returned within 30 days. Upon timely objection, the presiding officer will determine the extent to which the interrogatories will be permitted.
(e)
Requests for admission.
At any time after service of the complaint, a party may serve upon the other party a request for the admission of specified facts. Within 30 days after service, the party served shall answer each requested fact or file objections thereto. The factual propositions set out in the request may be ordered by the presiding officer as deemed admitted upon the failure of a party to respond timely and fully to the request for admissions.
(f)
Requests for production of documents.
At any time after service of the complaint, a party may serve on the other party written requests for the production, inspection, and copying of any documents, electronically stored information, or things, to be answered within 30 days. Upon timely objection, the presiding officer will determine the extent to which the requests must be satisfied, and if the parties cannot themselves agree thereon, the presiding officer shall specify just terms and conditions for compliance.
(g)
Depositions.
Except as stated herein, depositions shall be conducted in accordance with Rule 30 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(1) After a complaint has been filed and docketed, the parties may mutually agree to, or the presiding officer may, upon application of either party and for good cause shown, order the taking of testimony of any person by deposition upon oral examination or written interrogatories before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination, for use as evidence or for purpose of discovery. The application for order shall specify whether the purpose of the deposition is discovery or for use as evidence.
(2) The time, place, and manner of conducting depositions shall be as mutually agreed by the parties or, failing such agreement, and upon proper application, governed by order of the presiding officer.
(3) No testimony taken by deposition shall be considered as part of the evidence in the hearing of an appeal unless and until such testimony is offered and received in evidence at or before such hearing. It will not ordinarily be received in evidence if the deponent is available to testify at the hearing, but the presiding officer may admit testimony taken by deposition in his or her discretion. A deposition may be used to contradict or impeach the testimony of the witness given at the hearing. In cases submitted on the written record in lieu of an oral hearing, the presiding officer may, in his or her discretion, receive depositions as evidence in supplementation of that record.
(4) Each party shall bear its own expenses associated with the taking of any deposition unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer.
(h)
Sanctions.
If a party fails to appear for a deposition, after being served with a proper notice, or fails to serve answers or objections to interrogatories, requests for admissions, or requests for the production or inspection of documents, after proper service, the party seeking discovery may request that the presiding officer impose appropriate orders. Failure of a party to comply with an order pursuant to this rule may result in the presiding officer's ruling that the disobedient party may not support or oppose designated charges or defenses or may not introduce designated matters in evidence. The presiding officer may also infer from the disobedient party's failure to comply with the order that the facts to which the order related would, if produced or admitted, be adverse to such party's interests. In the sole discretion of the presiding officer, failure of a party to comply with an order pursuant to this rule may result in the presiding officer's issuance of an order of default under § 952.11(c).
§ 952.22
Transcript.
(a) Hearings shall be reported and transcribed by a court reporter. Argument upon any matter may be excluded from the transcript by order of the presiding officer. A copy of the transcript shall be a part of the record and the sole official transcript of the proceeding. Copies of the transcript shall be supplied to the parties to the proceeding by the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the Postal Service and the reporter. Copies of parts of the official record including exhibits admitted into evidence, other than the transcript, may be obtained by Respondent from the Recorder upon the payment of reasonable copying charges. Items that cannot reasonably be photocopied may be photographed and furnished in that form.
(b) Changes in the official transcript may be ordered by the presiding officer only to correct errors affecting substance and then only in the manner herein provided. Within 10 days after the receipt by any party of a copy of the official transcript, or any part thereof, he or she may file a motion requesting correction of the transcript. Opposing counsel shall, within such time as may be specified by the presiding officer, notify the presiding officer in writing of his or her concurrence or disagreement with the requested corrections. Failure to interpose timely objection to a proposed correction shall be considered to be concurrence. Thereafter, the presiding officer shall by order specify the corrections to be made in the transcript. The presiding officer on his or her own initiative may order corrections to be made in the transcript with prompt notice to the parties of the proceeding. Any changes ordered by the presiding officer other than by agreement of the parties shall be subject to objection and exception.
§ 952.23
Proposed findings and conclusions.
(a) Each party to a proceeding, except one who fails to answer the complaint or, having answered, either fails to appear at the hearing or indicates in the answer that he or she does not desire to appear, may, unless at the discretion of the presiding officer such is not appropriate, submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons either in oral or written form in the discretion of the presiding officer. The presiding officer may also require parties to any proceeding to submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders, and supporting reasons. Unless given orally, the date set for filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons shall be within 30 days after the delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder who shall notify both parties of the date of its receipt. The filing date for proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons shall be the same for both parties. If not submitted by such date, or unless extension of time for the filing thereof is granted, they will not be included in the record or given consideration.
(b) Except when presented orally before the close of the hearing, proposed findings of fact shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs and shall
state with particularity all evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits supporting the proposed findings. Each proposed conclusion shall be separately stated.
(c) Except when presented orally before the close of the hearing, proposed orders shall state the statutory basis of the order and, with respect to orders proposed to be issued pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3005(a)(3), shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs stating with particularity the representations Respondent and its representative shall cease and desist from using for the purpose of obtaining money or property through the mail.
§ 952.24
Decisions.
(a)
Initial decision by Administrative Law Judge.
A written initial decision shall be rendered by an Administrative Law Judge as soon as practical after completion of the hearing, or after close of the record in matters heard upon the written record in lieu of an oral hearing under § 952.17(b)(10). The initial decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision unless an appeal is taken in accordance with § 952.25.
(b)
Tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer.
When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing he or she shall issue a final or a tentative decision. Such decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The tentative decision shall become the final agency decision unless exceptions are filed in accordance with § 952.25.
(c)
Oral decisions.
The presiding officer may render an oral decision (an initial decision by an Administrative Law Judge, or a tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer) at the close of the hearing when the nature of the case and the public interest warrant. A party which desires an oral decision shall notify the presiding officer and the opposing party at least 5 days prior to the date set for the hearing. Either party may submit proposed findings, conclusions, and proposed orders either orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 952.25
Exceptions to initial decision or tentative decision.
(a) A party in a proceeding presided over by an Administrative Law Judge may appeal to the Judicial Officer by filing exceptions in a brief on appeal within 15 days from the receipt of the Administrative Law Judge's initial decision.
(b) A party in a proceeding presided over by the Judicial Officer may file exceptions within 15 days from the receipt of the Judicial Officer's tentative decision.
(c) If an initial or tentative decision is rendered orally by the presiding officer at the close of the hearing, he or she may then orally provide notice to the parties participating in the hearing of the time limit within which an appeal must be filed.
(d) The date for filing the reply to an appeal brief or to a brief in support of exceptions to a tentative decision by the Judicial Officer is 10 days after the receipt thereof. No additional briefs shall be received unless requested by the Judicial Officer.
(e) Briefs upon appeal or in support of exceptions to a tentative decision by the Judicial Officer and replies thereto shall be filed in duplicate with the Recorder and contain the following matter:
(1) A subject index of the matters presented, with page references; a table of cases alphabetically arranged; a list of statutes and texts cited with page references;
(2) A concise abstract or statement of the case in briefs on appeal or in support of exceptions;
(3) Numbered exceptions to specific findings and conclusions of fact, conclusions of law, or recommended orders of the presiding officer in briefs on appeal or in support of exceptions; and
(4) A concise argument clearly setting forth points of fact and of law relied upon in support of or in opposition to each exception taken, together with specific references to the parts of the
record and the legal or other authorities relied upon.
(f) Unless permission is granted by the Judicial Officer no brief shall exceed 50 printed pages double spaced, using 12 point type.
(g) The Judicial Officer will extend the time to file briefs only upon written application for good cause shown. If the appeal brief or brief in support of exceptions is not filed within the time prescribed, the defaulting party may be deemed to have abandoned the appeal or waived the exceptions, and the initial or tentative decision shall become the final agency decision.
§ 952.26
Judicial Officer.
(a) The Judicial Officer is authorized:
(1) To act as presiding officer;
(2) To render tentative decisions;
(3) To render final agency decisions;
(4) To issue Postal Service orders for the Postmaster General;
(5) To refer the record in any proceeding to the Postmaster General or the Deputy Postmaster General for final agency decision;
(6) To remand a case to the presiding officer for consideration; and,
(7) To revise or amend these rules of practice.
(b) In determining appeals from initial decisions or exceptions to tentative decisions, the entire official record will be considered before a final agency decision is rendered. Before rendering a final agency decision, the Judicial Officer may order the hearing reopened for the presentation of additional evidence by the parties.
§ 952.27
Motion for reconsideration.
A party may file a motion for reconsideration of a final agency decision within 10 days after receiving it or within such longer period as the Judicial Officer may order. Each motion for reconsideration shall be accompanied by a brief clearly setting forth the points of fact and of law relied upon in support of said motion.
§ 952.28
Orders.
(a) If an order is issued which prohibits delivery of mail to Respondent it shall be incorporated in the record of the proceeding. The Recorder shall cause notice of the order to be published in the Postal Bulletin and cause the order to be transmitted to such postmasters and other officers and employees of the Postal Service as may be required to place the order into effect.
(b) If an order is issued which requires Respondent to cease and desist from using certain representations for the purpose of obtaining money or property through the mail, it shall be incorporated in the record of the proceeding and a copy thereof shall be served upon Respondent or his or her or its agent by certified mail or by personal service, or if no person can be found to accept service, service shall be accomplished by ordinary mail to the last known address of Respondent or his or her or its agent. If service is not accomplished by certified mail, a statement, showing the time and place of delivery, signed by the postal employee who delivered the order, shall be forwarded to the Recorder.
§ 952.29
Modification or revocation of orders.
A party against which an order or orders have been issued may file an application for modification or revocation thereof. The Recorder shall transmit a copy of the application to the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee, who shall file a written reply within 10 days after filing or such other period as the Judicial Officer may order. A copy of the reply shall be sent to the applicant by the Recorder. Thereafter an order granting or denying such application will be issued by the Judicial Officer.
§ 952.30
Supplemental orders.
When the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee, or the Chief Postal Inspector's designated representative shall have reason to believe that a person is evading or attempting to evade the provisions of any such orders by conducting the same or a similar enterprise under a different name or at a different address, he or she may file a petition with accompanying evidence setting forth the alleged evasion or attempted evasion and requesting the issuance of a supplemental order or orders against the name or names allegedly used. Notice shall then be given by the Recorder to the person that the
order has been requested and that an answer may be filed within 10 days of the notice. The Judicial Officer, for good cause shown, may hold a hearing to consider the issues in controversy, and shall, in any event, render a final decision granting or denying the supplemental order or orders.
§ 952.31
Computation of time.
A designated period of time under these rules excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the close of business on the next business day.
§ 952.32
Official record.
The hearing transcript together with all pleadings, orders, exhibits, briefs and other documents filed in the proceeding shall constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 952.33
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial, tentative and final agency decisions and orders. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
§ 952.34
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d), and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications apply to proceedings under these rules of practice.
Pt. 953

# PART 953—MAILABILITY
Sec.
953.1
Authority for rules.
953.2
Initiation.
953.3
Appeal.
953.4
Filing, docketing and serving documents; service of notice; reply; motion for summary judgment.
953.5
Hearings.
953.6
Compromise and informal dispositions.
953.7
Default; Appearances.
953.8
Location of hearing.
953.9
Change of place of hearing.
953.10
Presiding officers.
953.11
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
953.12
Initial decision.
953.13
Appeal from initial decision.
953.14
Final Agency decision.
953.15
Expedition.
953.16
Disposition.
953.17
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3001; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
59 FR 31538, June 20, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 953.1
Authority for rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the U.S. Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
§ 953.2
Initiation.
Mailability proceedings are initiated upon the filing of an appeal in the Judicial Officer electronic filing system at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
or with the Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, U.S. Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078.
[89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 953.3
Appeal.
The appeal shall:
(a) Identify the appellant;
(b) Describe or be accompanied by a copy of the determination or ruling being appealed;
(c) Describe the character or content of the matter the appellant wishes to have carried and delivered by the U.S. Postal Service;
(d) Request review of the determination or ruling, specifying each and every reason why the appellant believes the determination or ruling should be reversed;
(e) Indicate whether the appellant desires to have an oral hearing or, instead, to have the case decided solely on the basis of the written record (
i.e.
, the appeal, the General Counsel's or Chief Postal Inspector's or his or her designee's reply reply, and any documents submitted by the parties pursuant to an order of the presiding officer); and
(f) Bear the signature, typed or printed name, title, business address, and telephone number of any attorney at law representing the appellant in bringing the appeal, and of each individual appellant or, if the appellant is a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or unincorporated association, of the managing partner,
chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or other officer authorized to bind the organization.
[59 FR 31538, June 20, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 53972, Sept. 13, 2006]
§ 953.4
Filing, docketing and serving documents; service of notice; reply; motion for summary judgment.
(a)
Filing.
Unless the presiding officer permits otherwise, all documents must be filed using the electronic filing system. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
(b)
Service of notice.
(1) Upon receiving the appeal, the Recorder shall issue a notice specifying that the Postal Service General Counsel's or Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee's reply shall be filed within 15 days of receipt of the notice.
(2) The Recorder shall promptly serve this notice on the parties as follows:
(i) The notice, with a copy of the appeal, shall be sent to the General Counsel or the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee.
(ii) When the appellant's address is within the United States, the notice, with a copy of the appeal, shall be sent to the postmaster at the office that delivers mail to the appellant's address. The postmaster shall be instructed that, acting personally or through a supervisory employee or a postal inspector, he or she is to serve these documents on the appellant. If the appellant cannot be found within 3 days, the postmaster shall send these documents to the appellant by ordinary mail and forward a statement to the Recorder that is signed by the delivering employee and that specifies the time and place of delivery.
(iii) When the appellant's address is outside the United States, the notice, with a copy of the appeal, shall be sent to the appellant by registered mail, return receipt requested. A written statement by the Recorder, noting the time and place of mailing, shall be accepted as proof of service in the event a signed and dated return receipt is not received.
(c)
Reply.
The General Counsel, the Chief Postal Inspector, or that officer's designee shall file a reply within the aforementioned 15-day period or any period granted by the presiding officer for good cause shown. If the reply so filed fails to address any additional allegation in the appeal, that allegation shall be deemed admitted.
(d)
Motion for summary judgment.
Upon motion of the General Counsel, the Chief Postal Inspector, that officer's designee, or the appellant, or on the presiding officer's own initiative, the presiding officer may find that the appeal and answer present no genuine and material issues of fact requiring an evidentiary hearing, and thereupon may render an initial decision upholding or reversing the determination or ruling. The initial decision shall become the final Agency decision if a timely appeal is not taken.
[81 FR 40192, June 21, 2016]
§ 953.5
Hearings.
(a) In general, admissibility of evidence at hearings conducted under this part hinges on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, or by needless presentation of cumulative evidence. Testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation, and witnesses are subject to cross-examination. Stipulations of fact are encouraged and may be received in evidence.
(b) Objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon. The transcript shall not
include argument or debate thereon except as ordered by the presiding officer. Rulings on such objections shall be a part of the transcript.
(c) Formal exceptions to the rulings of the presiding officer made during the course of the hearing are unnecessary. For all purposes for which an exception otherwise would be taken, it is sufficient that a party, when the ruling of the presiding officer is made or sought, makes known the action he desires the presiding officer to take or his objection to an action taken, and his grounds therefor.
§ 953.6
Compromise and informal dispositions.
Either party may request the other to consider informal disposition of any question of mailability, and the scheduled hearing date may be postponed by the presiding officer for such period of time as may be necessary to accommodate settlement discussions between the parties.
§ 953.7
Default; Appearances.
If a timely reply to the appeal is not filed, the presiding officer shall refer the appeal to the Judicial Officer, who may find that the General Counsel or the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee is in default. Whenever the General Counsel or the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee has been deemed to be in default, the Judicial Officer shall take whatever action on the appeal he deems appropriate. If an oral evidentiary hearing is to be held, the appellant may appear at the hearing in person or by counsel. If either party fails to appear at the hearing, the presiding officer shall receive the evidence of the party appearing and render a decision.
[59 FR 31538, June 20, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 53972, Sept. 13, 2006]
§ 953.8
Location of hearing.
Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, the hearing shall be held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, on the date set in the notice.
[63 FR 66050, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 953.9
Change of place of hearing.
(a) Not later than the date fixed for the filing of the reply, a party may file a motion that the scheduled hearing be held at a place other than that designated in the notice. The motion shall include a supporting statement outlining:
(1) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(2) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify; and
(3) The reasons why such evidence cannot be presented in Arlington, VA.
(b) In ruling on the motion, the presiding officer shall consider the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevancy of the evidence to be offered.
[59 FR 31538, June 20, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 66050, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 953.10
Presiding Officers.
The presiding officer at any hearing shall be an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law or the Judicial Officer (39 U.S.C. 204). The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign cases. The Judicial Officer may preside at the hearing if an Administrative Law Judge is unavailable.
[81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016]
§ 953.11
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be submitted orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing, or otherwise, as ordered by the presiding officer.
§ 953.12
Initial decision.
Unless given orally at the conclusion of the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall render an initial decision as expeditiously as practicable after the conclusion of the hearing and the receipt of the proposed findings and conclusions, if any. The initial decision shall become the decision of the Postal Service if an appeal is not perfected. When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing, his powers shall include those of an Administrative Law Judge, but the Judicial Officer may render either an initial or final decision. Exceptions may be filed to an initial decision
rendered by the Judicial Officer in accordance with § 953.13.
§ 953.13
Appeal from initial decision.
Either party may file exceptions in a brief on appeal to the Judicial Officer within 5 days after receipt of the initial decision unless additional time is granted. A reply brief may be filed within 5 days after the receipt of the appeal brief by the opposing party.
§ 953.14
Final Agency decision.
The Judicial Officer shall render a final Agency decision. The decision shall be served upon the parties and the postal official having custody of any mail detained pursuant to the determination or ruling.
§ 953.15
Expedition.
For the purpose of further expedition, either party may move to have the hearing held at an earlier date than that specified in the notice. Either party may also move to have the initial decision (if an Administrative Law Judge or the Judicial Officer is presiding) or the final Agency decision (if the Judicial Officer is presiding) rendered orally at the conclusion of the hearing. The presiding officer may grant or deny any such motion. The parties may, with the concurrence of the Judicial Officer, agree to waive any of the procedures established in these rules.
§ 953.16
Disposition.
Mail matter found to be nonmailable shall be held at the post office where detained for a period of 15 days from the date of the Postal Service decision, unless that period is extended by the Judicial Officer. During this holding period, the appellant may apply for the withdrawal of the matter. If any such application is made, the General Counsel or Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee shall be given notice and the opportunity to oppose the application. Upon the expiration of the holding period with no application having been made, the Judicial Officer shall order that the matter be disposed of in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 3001(b). If a timely application is made, the Judicial Officer shall consider the application and any reasons advanced by the General Counsel or Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee for denying the application. The Judicial Officer shall thereafter order either that the matter be returned to the applicant or that it be disposed of in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 3001(b).
[59 FR 31538, June 20, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 53972, Sept. 13, 2006]
§ 953.17
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d), and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
Pt. 954

# PART 954—DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATON OF PERIODICALS MAIL PRIVILEGES
Sec.
954.1
Authority for rules.
954.2
Scope of rules.
954.3
Informal dispositions.
954.4
Office business hours; electronic filing.
954.5
Application.
954.6
Revocation or suspension.
954.7
Failure to appeal proposed action.
954.8
Pleading.
954.9
Default.
954.10
Intervention or other participation.
954.11
Hearings.
954.12
Change of place of hearing.
954.13
Appearances.
954.14
Presiding officers.
954.15
Judicial Officer.
954.16
Procedure.
954.17
Transcript.
954.18
Proposed findings and conclusions.
954.19
Initial decision.
954.20
Appeals.
954.21
Motion for reconsideration.
954.22
Continuances.
954.23
Computation of time.
954.24
Official record.
954.25
Public information.
954.26
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3685; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
§ 954.1
Authority for rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the U.S. Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
§ 954.2
Scope of rules.
The rules of practice shall apply to all Postal Service proceedings concerning applications, denials, suspensions and revocations of Periodicals mailing privileges arising under former title 39 U.S.C. 4351, 4352, 4353, 4354, 4355, 4356, and 4369 as continued by sec. 3 of the Postal Reorganization Act (Pub. L. 91-375).
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.3
Informal dispositions.
These rules do not preclude the informal dispositions of Periodicals mailing privilege matters before or after institution of proceedings.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.4
Office business hours; electronic filing.
(a) The offices of the officials identified in these rules are located at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. Normal Business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.
(b) The Judicial Officer electronic filing system website is accessible 24 hours a day at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com.
[81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 954.5
Application.
A publisher may file an application for Periodicals mailing privileges. (See § E213 of the Domestic Mail Manual.) An authorized administrative official of the Postal Service (hereinafter called “the authorized official”) rules upon all applications. If he or she denies the application he or she shall notify the publisher specifying the reasons for his or her denial and attaching a copy of these rules. Before taking action on an application, the authorized official may call upon the publisher for additional information or evidence to support or clarify the application. Failure of the publisher to furnish such information or evidence may be cause for the authorized official to deny the application as incomplete or, on its face, not fulfilling the requirements for entry.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973; 42 FR 30504, June 15, 1977; 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.6
Revocation or suspension.
When the authorized official determines that a publication is no longer entitled to Periodicals mailing privileges, he or she shall issue a ruling of suspension or revocation to the publisher at the last known address of the office of publication stating the reasons and attaching a copy of these rules.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973; 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.7
Failure to appeal proposed action.
A ruling of the authorized official shall become final upon failure of the publisher to file a petition in accordance with the requirements of § 954.8(b).
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973]
§ 954.8
Pleading.
(a)
Filing and service.
All documents required under this part must be filed using the electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished. The Recorder shall maintain a docket and the files in all proceedings.
(b)
Petition.
A publisher may appeal from a ruling of the authorized official by filing a petition within 15 days of
the receipt of the ruling unless the time is extended by the authorized official. The petition shall state the reasons why the publisher (designated “Petitioner” in the proceeding) believes the ruling of the authorized official is erroneous and shall provide the address at which documents may be served on the Petitioner. The petition shall also allege facts showing compliance with each provision of law or regulation on which the publisher's claim to Periodicals mail privileges is based. The publisher shall attach to his or her petition a copy of the letter of the authorized official denying, suspending or revoking Periodicals mail privileges.
(c)
Notice of hearing.
Upon receipt of the petition the Recorder shall set a date for the hearing and issue a notice of hearing to the parties stating the time and place of the hearing, the date for filing an answer, and the name of the presiding officer.
(d)
Answer.
The authorized official (designated the “Respondent” in the proceeding) shall answer the petition within 15 days after filing and admit or deny each allegation of the petition.
(e)
Amendment.
An amendment of a pleading may be offered by any party at any time prior to the close of the hearing. If the presiding officer deems it appropriate to permit the amendment of a pleading, he or she may impose such conditions, by way of continuance of the hearing date or otherwise, as he or she considers necessary to assure a fair hearing.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973; 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997; 81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016]
§ 954.9
Default.
If a publisher fails to appear at the hearing, the presiding officer may: (a) Dismiss the petition; (b) order the petitioner to show cause within 30 days from the date of the order why an order of dismissal should not be entered, and thereafter enter such order as the presiding officer deems to be appropriate. If the petition is dismissed by order of an Administrative Law Judge, the dismissal may be appealed to the Judicial Officer within 15 days from the date of the order.
§ 954.10
Intervention or other participation.
To intervene or otherwise participate in a proceeding, any person may file a timely application in accordance with § 954.8(a). A timely application is one which will not unduly delay the proceeding. The application shall state whom the potential intervenor represents, his or her interest, the extent to which he or she desires to participate, and the evidence he or she seeks to introduce. The presiding officer shall fix the time within which the parties shall answer the application. The presiding officer shall grant or deny the application on such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate. In so doing the presiding officer will consider, among other things, whether intervention or other participation is consistent with the timely and proper adjudication of the rights of the original parties.
[31 FR 5198, Mar. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 31 FR 16270, Dec. 20, 1966; 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.11
Hearings.
Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, or other locations designated by the presiding officer.
[63 FR 66050, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 954.12
Change of place of hearing.
Not later than the date fixed for the filing of the answer, a party may file a request that a hearing be held to receive evidence in his or her behalf at a place other than that designated for hearing in the notice. He or she shall support his request with a statement setting forth:
(a) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(b) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify;
(c) The reasons why such evidence cannot be produced at Arlington, VA.
The presiding officer shall give consideration to the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevancy of the evidence to be offered.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997; 63 FR 66050, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 954.13
Appearances.
(a) The General Counsel of the Postal Service or a member of his or her staff designated by him or her shall represent the authorized official.
(b) A publisher or intervenor may appear and be heard in person or by attorney. Attorneys may practice before the Postal Service in accordance with applicable rules issued by the Judicial Officer. See part 951 of this chapter.
(c) An attorney representing a publisher or intervenor shall file a written authorization from the publisher or intervenor before he or she may participate in the proceeding. The publisher or intervenor must promptly file a notice of change of attorneys.
(d) When a publisher or intervenor is represented by an authorized attorney all subsequent pleadings shall be served upon the attorney.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.14
Presiding officers.
(a) The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign each case to an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law to preside over the hearing. Such assignments shall be made, so far as practical, in rotation.
(b) The presiding officer shall have authority to:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Examine witnesses;
(3) Rule upon matters of evidence and procedure;
(4) Order any pleading amended upon motion of a party at any time prior to the close of the hearing;
(5) Maintain discipline and decorum and exclude from the hearing any person acting in an indecorous manner;
(6) Require the filing of briefs on any matter upon which he or she is required to rule;
(7) Order prehearing conferences for the settlement or simplification of issues by consent of the parties;
(8) Order the proceeding reopened at any time prior to his or her decision for the receipt of additional evidence;
(9) Render an initial decision.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973; 38 FR 20263, July 30, 1973; 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.15
Judicial Officer.
The Judicial Officer is authorized (a) to act as presiding officer at hearings and (b) to render a final Postal Service Decision for the Postmaster General. On appeal from an Initial Decision of an Administrative Law Judge, the Judicial Officer will consider the entire record including the initial decision and the exceptions to that decision. Before any final agency decision has been rendered, the Judicial Officer may order the hearing reopened for the presiding officer to take additional evidence.
§ 954.16
Procedure.
(a)
Evidence.
The general rules of evidence governing civil proceedings in matters not involving trial by jury in the courts of the United States apply. The rules may be relaxed to the extent that the presiding officer may deem proper to insure an adequate and fair hearing. The presiding officer may exclude irrelevant or repetitious evidence.
(b)
Subpoenas.
The Postal Service is not authorized to issue subpoenas.
(c)
Fees.
The Postal Service does not pay fees and expenses for witnesses of, or depositions requested by, the publisher or intervenor.
(d)
Depositions.
Depositions may be taken as follows:
(1) Not later than 5 days after the filing of the authorized officials's answer, any party may file application with the presiding officer for the taking of testimony by deposition. In support of such application the applicant shall submit under oath or affirmation a statement setting out the reasons why such testimony should be taken by deposition, the time and the place, and the name and address of the witness whose deposition is desired, the subject matter of the testimony of each witness, its relevancy, and the name and address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken.
(2) If the application is granted, the order for the taking of the deposition will specify the time and place thereof, the name of the witness, the person before whom the deposition is to be taken and any other necessary information.
(3) Each witness testifying upon deposition shall be duly sworn by the deposition officer and the adverse party shall have the right to cross-examine. The questions and answers together with all objections, shall be reduced to writing and, unless waived by stipulation of the parties, shall be read to and subscribed by the witness in the presence of the deposition officer who shall certify it in the usual form. The deposition officer shall file the testimony taken by deposition as directed in the order. All objections made at the time of examination shall be noted by the deposition officer and the evidence objected to shall be taken subject to the objections. In lieu of participating in the oral examination, a party may transmit written interrogatories to the deposition officer, who shall propound them to the witness and record the answers verbatim. Objections to relevancy or materiality of testimony, or to errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of the parties and errors of any kind which might be obviated, cured or removed if promptly presented, are waived unless timely objection is made at the taking of the deposition.
(4) At the hearing any part or all of the deposition may be offered in evidence by any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had notice thereof. If the deposition is not offered and received in evidence, it shall not be considered as a part of the record in the proceeding. The admissibility of depositions or parts thereof shall be governed by the rules of evidence.
(5) The party requesting the deposition shall pay all fees required to be paid to witnesses and the deposition officer, and shall provide an original and one copy of the deposition for the official record, and shall serve one copy upon the opposing party.
(6) Within the United States or within a territory or insular possession subject to the dominion of the United States, depositions may be taken before an officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the examination is held; within a foreign country, depositions may be taken before a secretary of an embassy or legation, consul general, vice consul or consular agent of the United States, or any other person designated in the order for the taking of a deposition.
(7) Depositions may also be taken and submitted on written interrogatories in substantially the same manner as depositions taken by oral examination. When a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, none of the parties shall be present or represented, and no person, other than the witness, a stenographic reporter, and the deposition officer shall be present at the examination of the witness, which fact shall be certified by the officer, who shall propound the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories to the witness in their order and reduce the testimony to writing in the witness' own words.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.17
Transcript.
(a) A contract reporter of the Postal Service under the supervision of the presiding officer shall report hearings. The reporter shall supply the parties with copies of the transcript at rates not to exceed those fixed by contract between the Postal Service and the reporter.
(b) Changes in the official transcript may be made only when they involve substantial errors. A party may file a motion for correction of the official transcript within 10 days after his or her receipt of the transcript or any part thereof. Other parties shall, within such time as may be specified by the presiding officer, notify the presiding officer in writing if they object to the requested corrections. Failure of a party to interpose timely objection to a proposed correction may be considered by the presiding officer to be concurrence. The presiding officer shall then specify the corrections to be made in the transcript. He or she may on his or her own initiative order corrections in the transcript after notice to the parties subject to their objection.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.18
Proposed findings and conclusions.
(a) A party to a proceeding may submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law to the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall determine whether they shall be oral or written. The presiding officer may require parties to a proceeding to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law with supporting reasons. When the proposed findings and conclusions are not submitted orally they shall be filed within 15 days after delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder. The Recorder shall notify the parties of the filing date which shall be the same for both parties. If not submitted by that date, the findings and conclusions will not be considered or included in the record.
(b) Except when presented orally, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be set forth in numbered paragraphs and shall state with particularity all evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits relied upon to support the conclusions proposed. Each proposed conclusion shall be separately stated.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.19
Initial decision.
(a) Upon request of either party the presiding officer may render an oral initial decision at the close of the hearing when the nature of the case and the public interest warrant. If a party desires an oral initial decision he or she shall notify the presiding officer and the opposing party at least 5 days prior to the date set for hearing. Parties may then submit proposed findings and conclusions orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing.
(b) If an oral initial decision is not rendered, the presiding officer shall render a written initial decision with all due speed after the parties have submitted all posthearing material. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision unless it is appealed.
(c) The initial decision shall include findings upon all material issues of fact and law presented on the record and the reasons for those findings.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.20
Appeals.
(a) A party may appeal to the Judicial Officer from an initial decision by filing exceptions in a brief on appeal within 15 days from the receipt of a written or oral initial decision.
(b) The time for the filing of the reply brief is 10 days after receipt of the appeal brief. No additional briefs shall be received unless requested by the Judicial Officer.
(c) Appeal briefs shall contain the following matter in the order indicated:
(1) A subject index of the matters presented with page references;
(2) A table of cases alphabetically arranged;
(3) A list of statutes and texts cited with page references;
(4) A concise abstract or statement of the case;
(5) Numbered exceptions to the findings and conclusions of the presiding officer and the reasons for the exceptions.
(d) Reply briefs shall contain paragraphs (c) (1), (2), and (3) of this section and the reasons for opposing the exceptions.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 17217, June 29, 1973]
§ 954.21
Motion for reconsideration.
Within 10 days from the date thereof, or such longer period as may be fixed by the Judicial Officer, either party may file a motion for reconsideration of a final Agency decision.
§ 954.22
Continuances.
For good cause shown, continuances or extensions may be granted by the presiding officer. Similar action may be taken by the Judicial Officer when the proceeding is on appeal.
§ 954.23
Computation of time.
A designated period of time under these rules excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which
event the period runs until the close of business on the next working day.
§ 954.24
Official record.
The pleadings, orders, exhibits, transcript of testimony, briefs, decisions and other documents filed in the proceeding constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 954.25
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial and final Agency decisions. The Recorder of the Postal Service maintains a complete official record of every proceeding. A person may examine a record upon authorization by the Judicial Officer.
[36 FR 11567, June 16, 1971, as amended at 62 FR 66998, Dec. 23, 1997]
§ 954.26
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d) and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
[42 FR 5358, Jan. 28, 1977]
Pt. 955

# PART 955—RULES OF PRACTICE BEFORE THE POSTAL SERVICE BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
Sec.
955.1
(Rule 1) Jurisdiction, procedure, service of documents.
955.2
(Rule 2) Initiation of appeals.
955.3
(Rule 3) Contents of the notice of appeal.
955.4
(Rule 4) Appeal file.
955.5
(Rule 5) Motions.
955.6
(Rule 6) Pleadings.
955.7
(Rule 7) Amendments of pleadings or the record.
955.8
(Rule 8) Hearing request.
955.9
(Rule 9) Prehearing briefs.
955.10
(Rule 10) Conferences with the parties.
955.11
(Rule 11) Submission without a hearing.
955.12
(Rule 12) Optional Small Claims (Expedited) and Accelerated Procedures.
955.13
(Rule 13) Settling the record.
955.14
(Rule 14) Discovery.
955.15
(Rule 15) Interrogatories, requests for admission, and production and inspection of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.
955.16
(Rule 16) Depositions.
955.17
(Rule 17) Hearings.
955.18
(Rule 18) Copies of evidence and return of exhibits.
955.19
(Rule 19) Posthearing briefs.
955.20
(Rule 20) Representation of the parties.
955.21
(Rule 21) Withdrawal of attorney.
955.22
(Rule 22) Suspension.
955.23
(Rule 23) Decisions.
955.24
(Rule 24) Motion for reconsideration.
955.25
(Rule 25) Indefinite suspension.
955.26
(Rule 26) Failure to prosecute.
955.27
(Rule 27) Ex parte communications.
955.28
(Rule 28) Sanctions.
955.29
(Rule 29) Subpoenas.
955.30
(Rule 30) Applicability.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401; 41 U.S.C. 7101-7109.

# Source:
90 FR 25895, June 18, 2025, unless otherwise noted.
§ 955.1
(Rule 1) Jurisdiction, procedure, and service of documents.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
Under the Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. 7101-09, the Postal Service Board of Contract Appeals (Board) has jurisdiction over appeals from contracting officers' final decisions issued by the United States Postal Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission relative to their contracts. The Board also has jurisdiction over other matters assigned to it by the Postmaster General and over matters otherwise authorized by applicable law.
(b)
Organization and location of the Board.
(1) The Board is located at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, Virginia 22201-3078. The Board's telephone number is (703) 812-1900, and its website is
https://about.usps.com/who/judicial/.
The Board's fax number is (703) 812-1901. The website for electronic filing is
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com.
(2) All members of the Board must meet the qualifications established by the Contract Disputes Act. Unless otherwise allowed by this part, appeals are decided by a panel of at least three judges, with the majority's opinion constituting the Board's decision.
(c)
Board procedures
—(1)
Scope.
This part govern appeals filed under the Contract Disputes Act and other disputes assigned to the Board.
(2)
Administration and interpretation of this part.
This part will be interpreted to ensure a just, inexpensive, and timely resolution of every appeal. The Board may use the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure for guidance in interpreting this part and to resolve issues not covered by this part.
(3)
Computation of time and extensions.
(i) Unless otherwise specified by the Board, orders and decisions are deemed received by the parties on the date they are posted to the electronic filing system.
(ii) Except as otherwise provided by law, in computing time periods under this part or a Board order, the day of the event from which the designated time period begins to run will not be included, but the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. In those cases, the period will run to the next business day. Except as otherwise provided in this part or an applicable order, time periods are measured in calendar days.
(iii) Requests for time extensions from either party must be in writing and state good cause for the request. The requesting party must contact the opposing party about the request, or make a good faith effort to do so. The request must state whether the opposing party consents to the extension. Requests filed after a deadline should state the reason for the party's failure to file a timely request.
(4)
Manner of filings.
(i) Documents must be filed in the electronic filing system unless the Board permits otherwise. Documents filed electronically are deemed filed on the date and time (Eastern Time) reflected in the electronic filing system.
(ii) Documents mailed to the Board are deemed filed on the date mailed, as indicated by a United States postmark or other proof of mailing.
(iii) Documents may be filed by fax only with the Board's prior approval. Documents filed by fax are deemed filed when the Board receives a complete, legible copy.
(iv) Documents submitted by any other means are deemed filed when a complete copy is received by the Recorder during the Board's working hours (8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Eastern Time).
(5)
Service.
If both parties use the electronic filing system, separate service on the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents must be served by an equally or more expeditious means of transmittal than was used to submit the filing to the Board. The filing must also state that it has been furnished to the opposing party.
(d)
Parties
—(1)
Appellant.
The term
appellant
means a party that has filed an appeal with the Board.
(2)
Respondent.
The term
respondent
means the United States Postal Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission.
§ 955.2
(Rule 2) Initiation of appeals.
(a) An appeal may be initiated by filing a notice of appeal with either the Board (see § 955.1(c)(4) (Rule 1(c)(4))) or the contracting officer. The notice of appeal must be in writing and must be filed within the time specified by applicable law.
(b) The Postal Service Law Department must enter an appeal in the Board's electronic filing system within 10 days of the contracting officer's receipt of the notice of appeal. The Law Department must also indicate the date the notice of appeal was received by the contracting officer.
(c) Where an appeal has been properly filed from a deemed denial, the Board may stay further proceedings pending issuance of a final decision by the contracting officer within such time as the Board determines.
(d) Under 41 U.S.C. 7103(f)(4), the Board will consider a request to direct a contracting officer to issue a final decision within a specified period of time.
§ 955.3
(Rule 3) Contents of the notice of appeal.
(a) A notice of appeal must indicate the contractor's intention to file an appeal. It should also identify the relevant contract number or other reference and identify the decision from which the appeal is taken, or attach a copy of the contracting officer's final decision. If an appeal is taken from the failure of a contracting officer to issue a final decision, the notice of appeal should describe the claim or attach a copy of it.
(b) The notice of appeal should be signed by the contractor (or by an officer of a corporation or partner of a partnership), or by the contractor's
duly authorized representative or attorney. The complaint referred to in § 955.6 (Rule 6) may be filed with the notice of appeal, or the notice of appeal may be designated as a complaint if it otherwise meets the requirements of Rule 6.
§ 955.4
(Rule 4) Appeal file.
(a)
Appeal file.
Within 30 days of receipt of the Board's docketing notice, or such other period as the Board may order, the Postal Service must file an appeal file consisting of all documents relevant to the appeal. The appeal file should include:
(1) The claim and contracting officer's final decision from which the appeal is taken;
(2) The contract, including relevant specifications, amendments, plans, and drawings;
(3) Relevant correspondence between the parties;
(4) Documents relied on by the contracting officer to decide the claim;
(5) Relevant affidavits, declarations, witness statements, and transcripts of testimony taken before the appeal; and
(6) Any additional relevant information.
(b)
Supplement to the appeal file.
Within 30 days after receipt of the appeal file, the appellant may supplement the appeal file with any additional relevant documents. The supplement should be organized as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, starting with the next available exhibit number.
(c)
Organization of the appeal file.
Exhibits in the appeal file (and any supplements) must be consecutively numbered, indexed, and, where practicable, arranged chronologically. Each exhibit without internal page numbers must have page numbers added beginning at page “1.” The index should describe each exhibit by date, content, and page range.
(d)
Lengthy exhibits.
The Board may waive the requirement to exchange or file bulky, lengthy, or oversized documents or tangible evidence on a showing of impracticality or undue burden. Documents or tangible evidence subject to a waiver will be available for inspection at the Board.
(e)
Status of exhibits in the appeal file.
Exhibits in the appeal file are considered, without further action by the parties, as part of the record the Board will consider in its decision. A party may, however, object to the admissibility of a particular exhibit reasonably in advance of a hearing, the settling of the record, or such other date as ordered by the Board. An objection to an exhibit must provide a specific reason. If a timely objection is made, and after giving the non-objecting party an opportunity to respond, the Board may constructively remove the exhibit from the appeal file. The party offering the exhibit may then offer it into evidence under §§ 955.13 and 955.17 (Rules 13 and 17).
§ 955.5
(Rule 5) Motions.
(a)
Generally.
The Board may rule on written and oral motions. Written motions should state the relief sought and legal basis for the motion. At its discretion, the Board may hold oral argument or defer ruling on a motion. A motion filed in lieu of an answer must be filed no later than the date on which the answer is due, unless the Board provides otherwise. Any other dispositive motion should be promptly filed.
(b)
Jurisdictional motions.
Jurisdictional motions should be promptly filed. The Board may at any time and on its own initiative raise the issue of its jurisdiction.
(c)
Motions for summary judgment.
In deciding a motion for summary judgment, the Board will be guided by Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The Board may, however, defer ruling on a motion for summary judgment until after an evidentiary hearing. Motions for summary judgment may be filed only when a party believes that, based on uncontested material facts, it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In lieu of filing a motion for summary judgment, a party should consider submitting a request to have the appeal decided on the written record without a hearing. See §§ 955.8 and 955.11 (Rules 8 and 11).
(1) Motions for summary judgment must include a Statement of Uncontested Material Facts containing separately numbered paragraphs listing all the material facts on which the
moving party bases its motion and as to which it contends there is no genuine dispute. The moving party must include references to affidavits, declarations, and documents relied on to support each material fact.
(2) With its opposition to the motion, the non-moving party must file a separate Statement of Genuine Issues of Material Facts identifying, by paragraph number from the Statement of Uncontested Material Facts, the specific facts the non-moving party claims are genuinely disputed. The non-moving party must state the precise nature of its disagreement and include references to affidavits, declarations, and documents that demonstrate the existence of a genuine dispute. The non-moving party may also propose additional material facts.
(3) The parties must each include a memorandum of law supporting or opposing summary judgment.
(4) The Board will consider a request from the non-moving party for time to obtain affidavits or declarations or to take discovery before filing its response to the motion.
(d)
Non-dispositive motions.
Non-dispositive motions, such as motions for time extensions and motions to compel, must indicate that the moving party tried to resolve the issue with the other party before filing. See § 955.14 (Rule 14).
§ 955.6
(Rule 6) Pleadings.
(a)
Complaint.
Within 45 days after receipt of the notice of docketing, the appellant must file a complaint. The complaint must set forth simple, concise, and direct statements describing the basis and dollar amount for each claim. This pleading must fulfill the generally recognized requirements of a complaint, although no particular form is required. At the appellant's request or on the Board's own initiative, the appellant's claim, notice of appeal, or another document may be deemed to constitute the complaint if, in the Board's opinion, the issues are sufficiently explained in one of those documents.
(b)
Answer.
Within 30 days from receipt of the complaint, or notice from the Board designating another document as the complaint, the respondent must file an answer. The answer must set forth simple, concise, and direct statements of the respondent's defenses to each claim asserted by the appellant. This pleading must fulfill the generally recognized requirements of an answer and must set forth any affirmative defenses or counterclaims. If the answer is not filed within the time required, the Board may enter a general denial on behalf of the respondent, and the appellant will be so notified.
(c)
Affirmative claims by the respondent.
Where the appellant has appealed an affirmative claim asserted by a contracting officer in a final decision, such as a termination for default or a monetary claim by the Postal Service, the Board may order the respondent to file the complaint and the appellant to file the answer.
§ 955.7
(Rule 7) Amendments of pleadings or the record.
(a) On its own initiative or at the request of a party, the Board may order a party to submit a more definite statement of the complaint or answer, or to reply to an answer.
(b) The Board may consider issues not raised in the pleadings that were not objected to during the proceedings. These issues will be treated as if they had been raised in the pleadings. If a party objects to evidence at a hearing because it is not within the issues raised by the pleadings, the Board may nonetheless admit the evidence and grant the objecting party a continuance or other relief if necessary to enable it to respond to such evidence.
§ 955.8
(Rule 8) Hearing request.
As directed by the Board, each party must state whether it wants to have the appeal decided after a hearing or on the written record without a hearing. See Rules 11 and 17. A party's hearing request should state where and when it wants the hearing to be conducted. After considering the parties' requests, the Board will decide whether to hold a hearing. If the Board decides to hold a hearing, it will also determine the time and place of the hearing.
§ 955.9
(Rule 9) Prehearing briefs.
After reviewing the pleadings and appeal file documents, the Board may require the parties to submit prehearing briefs in any case in which a hearing will be held. Either party may also request permission to file a prehearing brief. If the Board grants that request, it will allow the other party to also file a prehearing brief. If prehearing briefs are submitted, they must be filed at least 15 days before the date set for hearing, or as otherwise ordered by the Board.
§ 955.10
(Rule 10) Conferences with the parties.
(a) Regardless of whether an appeal will be decided after a hearing or on the written record, the Board may, on its own initiative or at the request of one of the parties, convene a conference to consider:
(1) Simplifying or clarifying the issues;
(2) Obtaining stipulations, admissions, agreements on documents, understandings on matters already of record, and similar agreements to avoid unnecessary proof;
(3) Limiting the number of witnesses and avoiding cumulative evidence;
(4) Settling any of the disputed issues; and
(5) Discussing any other matters that may aid in disposing of the appeal.
(b) The Board will prepare a written summary of any conference with the parties. The written summary will be part of the record.
§ 955.11
(Rule 11) Submission without a hearing.
(a) If the parties elect to submit the appeal on the record without a hearing, the Board will set a schedule for the parties to complete the record and file briefs. Submission of the case without a hearing does not relieve the parties from the burden of proving the facts supporting their allegations or defenses. The parties may file affidavits, declarations, depositions, admissions, answers to interrogatories, and stipulations to supplement the record.
(b) The Board may also rely on any documents listed in Rule 13(a). The Board may order the parties to submit briefs in support of their positions.
(c) Except as the Board may otherwise order, no evidence will be received after the Board closes the record.
(d) The Board may ask the parties to submit additional evidence or briefs on any matter relevant to the appeal. The Board may also request oral argument.
(e) The record will then be settled as described in Rule 13.
§ 955.12
(Rule 12) Optional Small Claims (Expedited) and Accelerated Procedures.
(a)
The Small Claims (Expedited) Procedure.
(1) The Expedited Procedure is available solely at the appellant's election. The Board will, whenever possible, decide the appeal within 120 days from receipt of the appellant's written election.
(2) The appellant may elect this procedure if:
(i) There is a monetary dispute of $50,000 or less; or
(ii) There is a monetary dispute of $150,000 or less and the appellant is a small business concern, as that term is defined in the Small Business Act and the regulations in 13 CFR part 121.
(3) In cases proceeding under this paragraph (a), the respondent must file a copy of the contract, the contracting officer's final decision, and the appellant's claim letter within ten days from the respondent's receipt of the appellant's election. If either party asks for an oral hearing, the Board will promptly schedule a hearing at a mutually convenient time and place, consistent with the 120-day deadline for issuing a decision. If neither party requests a hearing, the appeal will be decided on the written record under Rule 11.
(4) After receipt of the appellant's election, the Board will set a schedule to allow for the timely resolution of the appeal. Pleadings, discovery, and other prehearing activities may be restricted or eliminated at the Board's discretion. In so doing, the Board may reserve whatever time it considers necessary to issue a decision.
(5) Written decisions issued under this paragraph (a) will contain only summary findings of fact and conclusions of law. Decisions will be issued by one judge. The presiding judge may issue an oral decision at the close of
the hearing. If an oral decision is issued, the Board will later provide the parties a written decision confirming the oral decision. The date of the written decision establishes the date for computing payment and filing a motion for reconsideration under § 955.24 (Rule 24).
(6) An expedited decision will not be published, will have no precedential value, and, in the absence of fraud, cannot be appealed.
(b)
The Accelerated Procedure.
(1) The Accelerated Procedure is available solely at the appellant's election and applies only to appeals where the amount in dispute is $100,000 or less. A decision under this procedure will, whenever possible, be issued within 180 days after the Board receives written notice of the appellant's election.
(2) After receipt of the appellant's election, the Board will set a schedule for further proceedings to allow for the timely resolution of the appeal. The Board may shorten time periods prescribed elsewhere in this part to enable the Board to decide the appeal within 180 days.
(3) Written decisions under this procedure will normally include only summary findings of fact and conclusions of law. Decisions will be issued by a single judge with the concurrence of another judge, or by a majority of three judges in the case of a disagreement between the two judges. If the Board has conducted a hearing, and the amount in dispute is $50,000 or less, the presiding judge may, with the concurrence of both parties, convert the appeal to an Expedited Proceeding. The presiding judge may issue an oral decision at the close of the hearing. If an oral decision is issued, the Board will later provide the parties a written decision confirming the oral decision. The date of the written decision establishes the date for computing payment and filing a motion for reconsideration under Rule 24.
(c)
Denial of election.
At the respondent's request, or on the Board's own initiative, the Board may deny the appellant's election to proceed under either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. In making that decision, the Board will consider the actual amount in dispute and the appellant's status as a small business.
(d)
Motions for reconsideration.
Motions for reconsideration under either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section need not be decided within the time periods prescribed for the initial decision.
(e)
Applicability of other Board rules.
Unless otherwise stated, all other Board rules in this chapter apply to appeals processed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 955.13
(Rule 13) Settling the record.
(a) The record consists of the appeal file described in Rule 4, and if filed: pleadings, prehearing conference memorandums, orders, briefs, depositions or interrogatories received in evidence, admissions, stipulations, transcripts of conferences and hearings, hearing exhibits, and other documents that the Board has designated as part of the record.
(b) Except as the Board may otherwise order, no evidence will be received after the Board has notified the parties that the record is closed.
(c) The Board will determine the weight given any evidence. The Board may require either party, with appropriate notice to the other party, to submit additional evidence on any matter relevant to the appeal.
(d) The Board may use the Federal Rules of Evidence for guidance in resolving evidentiary disputes.
§ 955.14
(Rule 14) Discovery.
(a) The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery. For a deposition or other discovery procedure, the Board may issue any order necessary to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. Those orders may include limits to the scope, method, time, and place for discovery and provide for protecting confidential information or documents. Except in connection with motions to compel or for a protective order, discovery requests and responses should not be filed with the Board.
(b) The Board may limit the type, frequency, extent, and scope of discovery. In doing so, the Board may generally consider whether:
(1) The discovery request is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive source;
(2) The party seeking discovery has had a reasonable opportunity to obtain the information sought; and
(3) The discovery request is relevant and proportional to the needs of the case, considering, among other things, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, and the importance of the issues.
(c) The parties must make a good faith effort to resolve discovery disputes informally. A party receiving an objection to a discovery request, or a party that believes another party's response to a discovery request is incomplete or entirely absent, may file a motion to compel a response. A motion to compel must include a statement that the moving party has made a good faith effort to informally resolve the dispute. A motion to compel must also include a copy of each discovery request at issue and any response.
(d) A party may ask the Board to impose appropriate sanctions or other remedies if the opposing party:
(1) Fails to appear for a deposition at an agreed time and date, or after being served with a proper notice; or
(2) Fails, after proper service, to object or answer interrogatories, requests for admission, or requests for the production or inspection of documents, electronically stored information, or tangible things.
§ 955.15
(Rule 15) Interrogatories, requests for admission, and production and inspection of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.
(a)
Interrogatories.
After an appeal has been filed, a party may serve on the other party written interrogatories to be answered separately in writing, signed under oath, and returned within 30 days. If a party timely objects, the Board will determine the extent to which the interrogatories will be permitted. The scope and use of interrogatories is controlled by Rule 14.
(b)
Requests for admissions.
After an appeal has been filed, a party may serve on the other party requests for admission. Within 30 days after service, the party served must answer or object to each request for admission. The Board may deem a matter admitted if a party fails to timely respond or object to a request for an admission.
(c)
Production and inspection of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.
After an appeal has been filed, a party may serve on the other party written requests for the production, inspection, and copying of any documents, electronically stored information, or tangible things. The party receiving the request must respond or object within 30 days of receiving the request. After receipt of an objection, the Board will determine the extent to which the requests must be satisfied and specify the terms and conditions of compliance.
§ 955.16
(Rule 16) Depositions.
(a)
When permitted.
The parties may take depositions after an appeal has been docketed and the complaint has been filed. The parties may mutually agree to, or the Board may, on application of either party and for good cause shown, order oral or written depositions before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination. An application for a deposition order must specify whether the purpose of the deposition is for discovery or for use as evidence.
(b)
Time, place, and manner.
The parties should voluntarily cooperate to determine the time, place, and manner of taking depositions. In the absence of an agreement, either party may request an order from the Board to set the time and place of a deposition.
(c)
Use as evidence.
No deposition testimony will be considered as part of the evidence in an appeal unless and until that testimony is offered into evidence by one of the parties and accepted by the Board. In cases where the Board holds a hearing, the Board will not ordinarily receive deposition testimony into evidence if the deponent is available to testify at the hearing. The Board nonetheless retains discretion to admit any deposition testimony. A deposition may be used to contradict or impeach a witness at a hearing.
(d)
Expenses.
Except for depositions of expert witnesses, whose reasonable deposition fees, absent an agreement
otherwise, must be borne by the party seeking the deposition, each party will bear its own expenses associated with taking and defending of any depositions.
§ 955.17
(Rule 17) Hearings.
(a)
Where and when held.
The Board will set the time, place, and duration of a hearing after consulting with the parties. A hearing may be held in the Board's hearing room in Arlington, Virginia, or any other location after giving due consideration to the just, informal, expeditious, and inexpensive resolution of the appeal.
(b)
Notice.
The Board will issue an order reasonably in advance of a hearing notifying the parties of the time and place of the hearing.
(c)
Unexcused absence.
A hearing will not be delayed by an unexcused absence of a party. Instead, the hearing will proceed as if the absent party submitted its case under Rule 11.
(d)
Admission of evidence.
A hearing will be as informal as reasonably appropriate under the circumstances. The Board may exclude evidence to avoid unfair prejudice, confusion, delay, or the presentation of irrelevant, immaterial, or cumulative evidence. Evidentiary rulings will be guided by the Federal Rules of Evidence. Even so, under Rule 13, the Board may admit evidence not ordinarily admissible under the Federal Rules. The weight to be attached to evidence is within the Board's discretion, taking into consideration all the circumstances of the particular case.
(e)
Stipulated testimony.
Stipulations of fact agreed to by the parties may be accepted as evidence. The parties may stipulate to testimony that would be given by a witness if the witness were present. The Board may require evidence in addition to that offered by the parties.
(f)
Interpreters.
A party requiring the use of an interpreter is responsible for making the necessary arrangements and paying all costs and expenses of the interpreter.
(g)
Examination of witnesses.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, witnesses will be examined orally under oath or affirmation. If the testimony of a witness is not given under oath or affirmation, the Board may warn the witness that their statements may be subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 287 and 1001, and any other provisions of law imposing penalties for knowingly making false representations in connection with claims against the United States or in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States.
(h)
Exclusion of witnesses.
At the request of either party, or at the Board's discretion, witnesses may be excluded from the hearing room during the testimony of other witnesses. The Board will not, however, exclude:
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) The properly designated representative of a party that is not an individual;
(3) A person, such as an expert witness, whose presence is essential to the presentation of a party's case; or
(4) A person required by statute to be present.
(i)
Transcripts.
Unless otherwise ordered, the Board will arrange for a court reporter to transcribe the hearing. The transcript provided by the Board is the official record of the hearing, and the Board will provide the parties with a copy after the hearing.
§ 955.18
(Rule 18) Copies of evidence and return of exhibits.
(a) When books, records, papers, or documents have been received in evidence, a true copy of all or part of the evidence may be substituted for the original either during or at the end of the hearing.
(b) After a decision becomes final, the Board may permit the return of original exhibits to the party entitled to possess them. The Board may also require substitution of the original exhibits with copies.
§ 955.19
(Rule 19) Posthearing briefs.
Posthearing briefs may be submitted as ordered by the Board at the end of the hearing. Ordinarily, briefs will be filed simultaneously on a date and by a method established by the Board. The Board may also allow reply briefs.
§ 955.20
(Rule 20) Representation of the parties.
(a) The term
appellant
means a party that has filed an appeal with the Board. Only the following individuals may represent appellants:
(1) Attorneys at law duly licensed in any state, commonwealth, or territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia may represent any party. Attorneys must register in the Board's electronic filing system and file a notice of appearance. The notice of appearance must include an email address, mailing address, and telephone number for the attorneys. Attorneys must also state the jurisdiction where they are licensed to practice law.
(2) Individual appellants may represent themselves.
(3) Officers of a corporation may represent the corporation.
(4) Members of a partnership or joint venture may represent that entity.
(b) The term
respondent
means the United States Postal Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission. Government attorneys must be licensed to practice law in a state, commonwealth, or territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. Government attorneys must register in the Board's electronic filing system and file a notice of appearance. The notice of appearance must include an email address, mailing address, and telephone number for the attorneys. Attorneys must also state the jurisdiction where they are licensed to practice law.
(c) References to the contractor, appellant, contracting officer, respondent, and parties include respective counsel for the parties, provided an appropriate notice of appearance has been filed. Self-represented parties or attorneys representing either party must inform the Board promptly of any change in their email address, mailing address, or telephone number.
§ 955.21
(Rule 21) Withdrawal of attorney.
An attorney who wishes to withdraw from an appeal must notify the Board. The notice must include the name, email address, mailing address, and telephone number of the person who will assume responsibility for representing the party.
§ 955.22
(Rule 22) Suspension.
(a) If the parties agree, the Board may suspend further proceedings. If, however, the Board is later advised by either party that the reason for the suspension is no longer applicable, the Board may restore the case to its active docket.
(b) The Board may suspend proceedings for good cause or to give a contracting officer time to issue a final decision when an appeal has been taken from a deemed denial of a claim.
§ 955.23
(Rule 23) Decisions.
The Board's decisions will be in writing and sent to both parties electronically or by United States mail. Except as required by law, all final orders and decisions are available for public inspection at the Board's office. They are also accessible on the Board's official website and through commercial publishers. The Board's decisions will be made solely on the evidentiary record as described in Rule 13.
§ 955.24
(Rule 24) Motion for reconsideration.
A motion for reconsideration must be filed within 30 days of the moving party's receipt of the Board's decision. A motion for reconsideration must set forth the specific grounds for reconsideration.
§ 955.25
(Rule 25) Indefinite suspension.
In certain cases, appeals need to be suspended indefinitely for reasons not within the Board's control. If the suspension has continued, or it appears that it will continue, for an inordinate length of time, the Board may suspend the appeal. If neither party moves to lift the suspension within one year, the Board may dismiss the appeal with prejudice.
§ 955.26
(Rule 26) Failure to prosecute.
(a) The Board may issue an order to show cause why an appeal should not be dismissed or granted, as appropriate, for failure to prosecute when a party:
(1) Fails to file a document required by this part;
(2) Fails to respond to notices or correspondence from the Board;
(3) Fails to comply with the Board's orders; or
(4) Otherwise indicates it will not continue to participate in an appeal.
(b) If the offending party fails to show cause, the Board may grant, deny, or dismiss the appeal for failure to prosecute or take any other reasonable action under the circumstances.
§ 955.27
(Rule 27)
Ex parte
communications.
(a) An
ex parte
communication is a communication between a Board judge or staff and a party or a party's representative without the presence of the opposing party or its representative.
(b) Except as set out in paragraph (c) of this section, no Board judge or staff, party to an appeal, or party representative may have or attempt to have any
ex parte
communication. Nor may a party file any evidence, explanation, analysis, or advice, whether written or oral, regarding any matter at issue in an appeal unless a copy of the filing is provided to the opposing party.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to:
(1) Consultation among Board judges and staff about an appeal;
(2) Communications between the Board's staff and a party or a party's representative about the Board's administrative functions or procedures; or
(3) Any event, such as a conference call or a hearing, where a party has received notice of the event and fails to appear.
§ 955.28
(Rule 28) Sanctions.
(a) All parties and their attorneys must comply with the Board's directions and orders and adhere to all applicable standards of conduct. For attorneys, the standards include the rules of professional conduct and ethics of the jurisdictions where the attorneys are licensed to practice law.
(b) If a party or its attorney fails to comply with any direction or order issued by the Board, or engages in misconduct, the Board may impose appropriate sanctions. Sanctions may include:
(1) Finding disputed facts as true;
(2) Denying a party the right to challenge the accuracy of evidence;
(3) Denying a party the right to support or oppose a claim or defense;
(4) Denying a party the right to introduce evidence;
(5) Striking pleadings, in whole or in part;
(6) Staying further proceedings;
(7) Dismissing or granting the appeal, in whole or in part; and
(8) Imposing other appropriate sanctions.
(c) The Board may sanction individual attorneys who violate a Board order, direction, or standard of conduct if the violation seriously affects the integrity of the Board, its processes, or its proceedings. Sanctions may be public or private and may include admonishment, disqualification from a particular matter, disqualification from practice before the Board (see 39 CFR part 951), referral to a licensing authority, or other appropriate action under the circumstances.
§ 955.29
(Rule 29) Subpoenas.
(a)
General.
On written request of either party, or on the Board's own initiative, the Board may issue a subpoena requiring:
(1) The deposition of a witness in the city or county where the witness resides, is employed, transacts business in person, or at another convenient location as determined by the Board;
(2) The deposition of a witness as described in Rule 30(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;
(3) The testimony of a witness at a hearing; or
(4) The production of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things, and as appropriate, the appearance of a witness or custodian of those records.
(b)
Voluntary cooperation.
Each party is expected to:
(1) Cooperate and make witnesses and evidence under its control available as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena; and
(2) Secure voluntary attendance of third-party witnesses and production of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things whenever possible.
(c)
Requests for subpoenas.
(1) A request for a subpoena must normally be filed at least:
(i) 15 days before the scheduled deposition of a witness or production by a witness or custodian of documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things;
(ii) 30 days before a scheduled hearing; or
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the Board may honor requests for subpoenas not made within these time limits.
(2) The scope of the request for a subpoena must be reasonable, and the request must describe the general relevance of the request.
(d)
Requests to quash or modify.
A request to quash or modify a subpoena must be filed within 10 days after receipt of the subpoena.
(1) The Board may grant a request to quash or modify a subpoena if the subpoena is unreasonable or oppressive. The Board may also quash or modify a subpoena for other good cause shown.
(2) The Board may require the person on whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of complying with the subpoena.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the Board may consider a request to quash or modify a subpoena at any time after a copy has been served on the opposing party.
(e)
Form and issuance.
(1) Every subpoena for the appearance of a witness must:
(i) Include the caption of the appeal;
(ii) Identify the person to whom it is directed;
(iii) List the time and place of the deposition or hearing; and
(iv) Where appropriate, command the person to produce specified documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.
(2) The judge issuing the subpoena may enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave the subpoena blank. The requesting party must then fill in the remaining information before serving the subpoena.
(3) If the witness is located in a foreign country, a letters rogatory, letter of request, or subpoena may be issued and served as provided in 28 U.S.C. 1781-84.
(f)
Service.
(1) The requesting party must arrange for service.
(2) A subpoena may be served by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age. Service of a subpoena on an individual must be made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for one day's attendance and the mileage provided by 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable law.
(3) The requesting party is responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness and the serving officer. The failure to make payment of such charges on demand may be a sufficient reason for the Board to strike the testimony of the witness and any evidence the witness has produced.
(g)
Refusal to obey a subpoena.
If a person who refuses to obey a subpoena either resides in, is found, or transacts business within the jurisdiction of a United States District Court, the Board may apply to the Court through the Attorney General of the United States for an order requiring the person to comply with the Board's subpoena. The Court may punish a person's failure to obey the Court's order with a contempt citation.
§ 955.30
(Rule 30) Applicability.
This part governs proceedings in all appeals docketed by the Board on or after October 1, 2025, and to appeals filed before that date, unless doing so is inequitable or unfair.
PART 956 [RESERVED]
Pt. 957

# PART 957—DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION FROM CONTRACTING
Sec.
957.1
Authority for rules.
957.2
Scope of rules.
957.3
Definitions.
957.4
Authority of the Hearing Officer.
957.5
Case initiation.
957.6
Filing documents for the record.
957.7
Failure to appear at the hearing.
957.8
Hearings.
957.9
Appearances.
957.10
Conduct of the hearing.
957.11
Witness fees.
957.12
Transcript.
957.13
Proposed findings of fact.
957.14
Findings of fact.
957.15
Computation of time.
957.16
Official record.
957.17
Public information.
957.18
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401.

# Source:
80 FR 55767, Sept. 17, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 957.1
Authority for rules.
The rules in this part are issued by the Judicial Officer of the Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General (39 U.S.C. 204, 401).
§ 957.2
Scope of rules.
The rules in this part apply to proceedings initiated pursuant to paragraphs (g)(2) or (h)(2) of § 601.113 of this subchapter.
§ 957.3
Definitions.
(a)
Vice President
means the Vice President, Supply Management, or the Vice President's representative for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of § 601.113 of this subchapter.
(b)
General Counsel
includes the Postal Service's General Counsel and any designated representative within the Office of the General Counsel.
(c)
Judicial Officer
includes the Postal Service's Judicial Officer, Associate Judicial Officer, and Acting Judicial Officer.
(d)
Debarment
has the meaning given by paragraph (b)(2) of § 601.113 of this subchapter.
(e)
Respondent
means any individual, firm or other entity which has been served a written notice of proposed debarment pursuant to § 601.113(h), or which previously has been debarred, as provided in § 601.113(g)(2) of this subchapter.
(f)
Hearing Officer
means the judge assigned to the case by the Judicial Officer. The Hearing Officer may be the Judicial Officer, Associate Judicial Officer, Administrative Law Judge or an Administrative Judge who is a member of the Postal Service Board of Contract Appeals.
(g)
Recorder
means the Recorder of the Judicial Officer Department of the United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The Recorder's telephone number is (703) 812-1900, fax number is (703) 812-1901, and the Judicial Officer's website is
https://about.usps.com/who/judicial/
.
[80 FR 55767, Sept. 17, 2015, as amended by 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 957.4
Authority of the Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer's authority includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Ruling on all motions or requests by the parties.
(b) Issuing notices, orders, or memoranda to the parties concerning the hearing proceedings.
(c) Conducting conferences with the parties. The Hearing Officer will prepare a Memorandum of Conference, which will be transmitted to both parties and which serves as the official record of that conference.
(d) Determining whether an oral hearing will be conducted, and setting the place, date, and time for such a hearing.
(e) Administering oaths or affirmations to witnesses.
(f) Conducting the proceedings and the hearing in a manner to maintain discipline and decorum while ensuring that relevant, reliable and probative evidence is elicited, but irrelevant, immaterial or repetitious evidence is excluded. The Hearing Officer in his or her discretion may examine witnesses to ensure that a satisfactory record is developed.
(g) Establishing the record. The weight to be attached to evidence will rest within the discretion of the Hearing Officer. Except as the Hearing Officer may otherwise order, no proof shall be received in evidence after completion of a hearing. The Hearing Officer may require either party, with appropriate notice to the other party, to submit additional evidence on any relevant matter.
(h) Granting reasonable time extensions or other relief for good cause shown, in the Hearing Officer's sole discretion.
(i) Issuing findings of fact. The Hearing Officer will issue findings of fact to the Vice President within 30 days from the close of the record, to the extent practicable.
§ 957.5
Case initiation.
(a) Upon receipt of a request or referral from the Vice President, the Recorder will docket a case under this Part. Following docketing, the Judicial Officer will assign a Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will establish the schedule for the proceeding, perform all judicial duties under this Part and render Findings of Fact. Whenever practicable, a hearing should be conducted within 30 days of the date of docketing.
(b) The request or referral from the Vice President shall include the notice of proposed debarment and the information or argument submitted by the Respondent pursuant to paragraphs (g) or (h) of § 601.113 of this subchapter.
§ 957.6
Filing documents for the record.
The parties shall file documents, permitted by the rules in this part or required by the Hearing Officer, in the Judicial Officer Department's electronic filing system. The website for electronic filing is
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
. Documents submitted using that system are considered filed as of the date and time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Orders issued by the Hearing Officer shall be considered received by the parties on the date posted to the electronic filing system.
[80 FR 55767, Sept. 17, 2015, as amended by 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 957.7
Failure to appear at the hearing.
If a party fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer may proceed with the hearing, receive evidence and issue findings of fact without requirement of further notice to the absent party.
§ 957.8
Hearings.
Hearings ordinarily will be conducted in the Judicial Officer Department courtroom at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. However, the Hearing Officer, in his or her discretion, may order the hearing to be conducted at another location, or by another means such as by video.
§ 957.9
Appearances.
(a) An individual Respondent may appear in his or her own behalf, a corporation may appear by an officer thereof, a partnership or joint venture may appear by a member thereof, or any of these may appear by a licensed attorney.
(b) After a request for a hearing has been filed pursuant to the rules in this part, the General Counsel shall designate a licensed attorney as counsel assigned to handle the case.
(c) All counsel, or a self-represented Respondent, shall register in the electronic filing system, and request to be added to the case. Counsel also promptly shall file notices of appearance.
(d) An attorney for any party who has filed a notice of appearance and who wishes to withdraw must file a motion requesting withdrawal, explaining the reasons supporting the motion, and identifying the name, email address, mailing address, telephone number, and fax number of the person who will assume responsibility for representation of the party in question.
§ 957.10
Conduct of the hearing.
The Hearing Officer may approve or disapprove witnesses in his or her discretion. All testimony will be taken under oath or affirmation, and subject to cross-examination. The Hearing Officer may exclude evidence to avoid unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, undue delay, waste of time, or presentation of irrelevant, immaterial, or cumulative evidence. Although the Hearing Officer will consider the Federal Rules of Evidence for guidance regarding admissibility of evidence and other evidentiary issues, he or she is not bound by those rules. The weight to be attached to evidence presented in any particular form will be within the discretion of the Hearing Officer, taking into consideration all the circumstances of the particular case. Stipulations of fact agreed upon by the parties may be accepted as evidence at the hearing. The parties may stipulate the testimony that would be given by a witness if the witness were present. The Hearing Officer may in any case require evidence in addition to that offered by the parties. A party requiring
the use of a foreign language interpreter allowing testimony to be taken in English for itself or witnesses it proffers is responsible for making all necessary arrangements and paying all costs and expenses associated with the use of an interpreter.
§ 957.11
Witness fees.
Each party is responsible for the fees and costs for its own witnesses.
§ 957.12
Transcript.
Testimony and argument at hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the Hearing Officer otherwise orders. Transcripts of the proceedings will be made available or provided to the parties.
§ 957.13
Proposed findings of fact.
(a) The Hearing Officer may direct the parties to submit proposed findings of fact and supporting explanations within 15 days after the delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder who shall notify both parties of the date of its receipt. The filing date for proposed findings shall be the same for both parties.
(b) Proposed findings of fact shall be set forth in numbered paragraphs and shall state with particularity all evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits supporting the proposed findings.
§ 957.14
Findings of fact.
The Hearing Officer shall issue written findings of fact, and transmit them to the Vice President. Copies will be sent to the parties.
§ 957.15
Computation of time.
A designated period of time under the rules in this part excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the close of business on the next business day.
§ 957.16
Official record.
The transcript of testimony together with all pleadings, orders, exhibits, briefs, and other documents filed in the proceeding shall constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 957.17
Public information.
The Postal Service shall maintain for public inspection copies of all findings of fact issued under this Part, and make them available through the Postal Service Web site. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
§ 957.18
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d), and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
Pt. 958

# PART 958—HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Sec.
958.1
Purpose.
958.2
Definitions.
958.3
Petition for hearing.
958.4
Referral of complaint.
958.5
Scope of hearing; evidentiary standard.
958.6
Notice of docketing and hearing.
958.7
Hearing location.
958.8
Rights of parties.
958.9
Responsibilities and authority of presiding officer.
958.10
Prehearing conferences.
958.11
Respondent access to information.
958.12
Depositions; interrogatories; admission of facts; production and inspection of documents.
958.13
Sanctions.
958.14
Ex parte communications.
958.15
Post-hearing briefs.
958.16
Transcript of proceedings.
958.17
Initial decision.
958.18
Appeal of initial decision to Judicial Officer.
958.19
Form and filing of documents.
958.20
Service.
958.21
Computation of time.
958.22
Continuances and extensions.
958.23
Settlement.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3001, 3018; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
74 FR 18631, Apr. 24, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 958.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the procedures governing the hearing and appeal rights of any person alleged to be liable for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018.
§ 958.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Complaint
refers to the determination by the Determining Official that an individual has violated the prohibition against mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018.
(b)
Initial Decision
refers to the written decision which the Presiding Officer renders.
(c)
Determining Official
refers to the Chief Postal Inspector or designee.
(d)
Judicial Officer
refers to the Judicial Officer or Acting Judicial Officer of the United States Postal Service or designee within the Judicial Officer Department.
(e)
Party
refers to the Postal Service or the respondent.
(f)
Person
refers to any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization.
(g)
Presiding Officer
refers to an Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct a hearing, or to the Judicial Officer, if an Administrative Law Judge is not available.
(h)
Recorder
refers to the Recorder of the Judicial Office of the United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, Virginia 22201-3078.
(i)
Representative
refers to an attorney or other advocate.
(j)
Respondent
refers to any person determined by the Determining Official to be liable for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018.
[74 FR 18631, Apr. 24, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016]
§ 958.3
Petition for hearing.
Within 30 days of being served the Postal Service's Complaint alleging liability under 39 U.S.C. 3018, the respondent may request a hearing by filing a written Hearing Petition with the Recorder. The respondent's Petition must include the following:
(a) The words “Petition for Hearing Related to Prohibitions Regarding the Mailing of Hazardous Material” or other words reasonably identifying it as such;
(b) The name of the respondent as well as his or her work and home addresses, and work and home telephone numbers; and other address and telephone number where the respondent may be contacted about the hearing proceedings;
(c) The date on which the respondent received the Complaint issued by the Determining Official;
(d) A statement indicating whether the respondent requests an oral hearing or a decision solely on the written record;
(e) If the respondent requests an oral hearing, a statement proposing a city for the hearing site, with justification for holding the hearing in that city, as well as recommended dates for the hearing; and
(f) A statement admitting or denying each of the allegations of liability made in the Complaint, and stating any defense on which the respondent intends to rely.
§ 958.4
Referral of complaint.
(a) If the respondent fails to request a hearing within the specified period, the Determining Official shall transmit the Complaint to the Judicial Officer for referral to a Presiding Officer, who shall issue an Initial Decision based upon the information contained in the Complaint.
(b) If the respondent files a Hearing Petition, the Determining Official, upon receiving a copy of the Petition, shall promptly transmit to the Presiding Officer a copy of the Postal Service's Complaint.
§ 958.5
Scope of hearing; evidentiary standard.
(a) A hearing under this part shall be conducted by the Presiding Officer on the record:
(1) To determine whether the respondent is liable under 39 U.S.C. 3018, and
(2) If so, to determine the amount of any civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages to be imposed.
(b) The Postal Service must prove its case against a respondent by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The parties may offer for insertion onto the record such relevant evidence as they deem appropriate and as
would be admissible under the generally accepted rules of evidence applied in the courts of the United States in nonjury trials, subject, however, to the sound discretion of the Presiding Officer in supervising the extent and manner of presentation of such evidence. In general, admissibility will hinge on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
§ 958.6
Notice of docketing and hearing.
(a) Within a reasonable time after receiving the respondent's Hearing Petition and the Complaint, the Presiding Officer shall serve upon the respondent and the Determining Official, a Notice of Docketing and Hearing.
(b) The Notice of Docketing and Hearing required by paragraph (a) of this section may include:
(1) The tentative site, date, and time of the oral hearing, if one is requested;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The nature of the hearing;
(4) The matters of fact and law to be decided;
(5) A description of the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing; and
(6) Such other information as the Presiding Officer deems appropriate.
§ 958.7
Hearing location.
An oral hearing under this part shall be held:
(a) In the judicial district of the United States in which the respondent resides or transacts business;
(b) In the judicial district of the United States in which the incident or incidents occurred upon which the determination of liability under 39 U.S.C. 3018 was made by the Determining Official; or
(c) In such other place as may be determined by the Presiding Officer.
§ 958.8
Rights of parties.
Subject to the sound discretion of the Presiding Officer, acting under § 958.9, parties to a hearing under this part shall have the right:
(a) To be accompanied, represented, and advised, by an attorney or representative of his or her own choosing;
(b) To participate in any conferences held by the Presiding Officer;
(c) To agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(d) To make opening and closing statements at the oral hearing;
(e) To present oral and documentary evidence relevant to the issues;
(f) To submit rebuttal evidence;
(g) To conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts; and
(h) To submit written briefs, proposed findings of fact, and proposed conclusions of law.
§ 958.9
Responsibilities and authority of presiding officer.
(a) The Presiding Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid unnecessary delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The Presiding Officer's authority includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Establishing, upon adequate notice to all parties, the date and time of the oral hearing, if any, as well as, in accordance with § 958.7, selecting the hearing site;
(2) Holding conferences, by telephone or in person, to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious resolution of the proceeding;
(3) Continuing or recessing the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(4) Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses;
(5) Ruling on all offers, motions, requests by the parties, and other procedural matters;
(6) Issuing any notices, orders, or memoranda to the parties concerning the proceedings;
(7) Regulating the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulating the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their representatives;
(9) Examining witnesses;
(10) Receiving, ruling on, excluding, or limiting evidence in order to assure that relevant, reliable and probative evidence is elicited on the issues in dispute, but irrelevant, immaterial or repetitious evidence is excluded;
(11) Deciding cases, upon motion of a party, in whole or in part by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(12) Establishing the record in the case; and
(13) Issuing a written Initial Decision containing findings of fact, conclusions of law, and determinations with respect to whether civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018 should be imposed, and if so, the amounts thereof, after taking into account the penalty considerations contained in 39 U.S.C. 3018(e).
§ 958.10
Prehearing conferences.
(a) At a reasonable time after issuing the Notice of Docketing and Hearing, and with adequate notice to the parties, the Presiding Officer may conduct, in person or by telephone, one or more prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations or admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Exchange of witness lists, copies of prior statements of witnesses, and copies of hearing exhibits;
(6) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(7) Discovery;
(8) Possible changes in the scheduled oral hearing date, time or site, if requested; and
(9) Any other matters related to the proceeding.
(b) Within a reasonable time after the completion of a prehearing conference, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order detailing all matters agreed upon by the parties, or ordered by the Presiding Officer, at such conference.
§ 958.11
Respondent's access to information.
Except as provided in this section, after receiving the Notice of Docketing and Hearing the respondent may review and obtain a copy of all relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials which relate to the determination of liability by the Determining Official under 39 U.S.C. 3018, and all exculpatory information in the possession of the Determining Official relating to liability for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018. The respondent is not entitled to review or obtain a copy of any document, transcript, record, or other material which is privileged under Federal law. The Presiding Officer is authorized to issue orders placing limitations on the scope, method, time and place for accessing this information, and provisions for protecting the secrecy of confidential information or documents.
§ 958.12
Depositions; interrogatories; admission of facts; production and inspection of documents.
(a)
General policy and protective orders.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures. In connection with any discovery procedure permitted under this part, the Presiding Officer may issue any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. Such orders may include limitations on the scope, method, time and place for discovery, and provisions for protecting the secrecy of confidential information or documents. Each party shall bear its own expenses relating to discovery.
(b)
Depositions.
After the issuance of a Notice of Docketing and Hearing, the parties may mutually agree to, or the Presiding Officer may, upon application of either party and for good cause shown, order the taking of testimony of any person by deposition upon oral examination or written interrogatories
before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination, for use as evidence or for purposes of discovery. The application for an order of the Presiding Officer under this paragraph shall specify whether the purpose of the deposition is discovery or for use as evidence.
(1) The time, place, and manner of taking depositions shall be as mutually agreed by the parties, or failing such agreement, governed by order of the Presiding Officer.
(2) No testimony taken by depositions shall be considered as part of the record in the hearing unless and until such testimony is offered and received into evidence by order of the Presiding Officer. Deposition testimony will not ordinarily be received in evidence if an oral hearing is requested by either party, and the deponent is available to testify personally at the hearing. In such instances, however, deposition testimony may be used to contradict or impeach the testimony of the witness given at the hearing. In cases submitted for a decision on a written record, the Presiding Officer may, in his or her discretion, receive deposition testimony as evidence in supplementation of that record.
(c)
Interrogatories to parties.
After the issuance of a Notice of Docketing and Hearing, a party may serve on the other party written interrogatories. Within 30 days after service, the party served shall answer each interrogatory separately in writing, signed under oath, or file objections thereto. Upon timely objection by the party, the Presiding Officer will determine the extent to which the interrogatories will be permitted.
(d)
Admission of facts.
After the issuance of a Notice of Docketing and Hearing, a party may serve upon the other party a request for the admission of specified facts. Within 30 days after service, the party served shall answer each requested fact or file objections thereto. Upon timely objection by the party, the Presiding Officer will determine the extent to which the request for admission will be permitted. The factual propositions set out in the request shall be deemed admitted upon the failure of a party to respond to the request for admission.
(e)
Production and inspection of documents.
Upon motion of a party showing good cause therefor, and upon notice, the Presiding Officer may order the other party to produce and permit the inspection and copying or photographing of any designated documents or objects, not privileged, specifically identified, and their relevance and materiality to the cause or causes in issue explained, which are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery or admissible evidence. If the parties cannot themselves agree thereon, the Presiding Officer shall specify just terms and conditions in making the inspection and taking the copies and photographs.
(f)
Limitations.
A discovery procedure may not be used to reach documents, transcripts, records, or other material which a person is not entitled to review pursuant to § 958.11.
§ 958.13
Sanctions.
(a)
In general.
The Presiding Officer may sanction a person, including any party, attorney or representative, for:
(1) Failing to comply with a lawful order or prescribed procedure;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b)
Reasonableness.
Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c)
Failure to comply with an order.
When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the Presiding Officer may:
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) Prohibit such party from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought;
(3) Permit the requesting party to introduce secondary evidence concerning the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d)
Failure to prosecute or defend.
If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part, the Presiding Officer may dismiss the action, or enter an order of default and an Initial Decision.
(e)
Failure to file timely.
The Presiding Officer may refuse to consider any motion or other pleading, report, or response which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 958.14
Ex parte communications.
Communications between a Presiding Officer and a party shall not be made on any matter in issue unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This prohibition does not apply to procedural matters. A memorandum of any communication between the Presiding Officer and a party shall be transmitted by the Presiding Officer to all parties.
§ 958.15
Post-hearing briefs.
Post-hearing briefs and reply briefs may be submitted upon such terms as established by the Presiding Officer at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 958.16
Transcript of proceedings.
Testimony and argument at oral hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the Presiding Officer orders otherwise. Transcripts or copies of the proceedings may be obtained by the parties at such rates as may be fixed by contract between the reporter and the Postal Service.
§ 958.17
Initial decision.
(a) After the conclusion of the hearing, and the receipt of briefs, if any, from the parties, the Presiding Officer shall issue a written Initial Decision, including his or her findings and determinations. Such decision shall include the findings of fact and conclusions of law which the Presiding Officer relies upon in determining whether the respondent is liable for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018, and, if liability is found, shall set forth the amount of any civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages imposed.
(b) The Presiding Officer shall promptly send to each party a copy of his or her Initial Decision. A party may, in accordance with § 958.18, appeal an adverse Initial Decision to the Judicial Officer. Unless a party timely appeals in accordance with § 958.18, the Presiding Officer's Initial Decision, including the findings and determinations, becomes the final agency decision.
§ 958.18
Appeal of initial decision to Judicial Officer.
(a)
Notice of appeal and supporting brief.
A party may appeal an adverse Initial Decision by filing, within 30 days after the Presiding Officer issues the Initial Decision, a Notice of Appeal with the Recorder. The Judicial Officer may extend the filing period but only if the party files a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and demonstrates good cause for such extension.
(1) The Notice of Appeal must be accompanied by a written brief specifying the party's exceptions, and any reasons for such exceptions, to the Presiding Officer's Initial Decision.
(2) Within 30 days of receiving the party's brief, the opposing party may file with the Judicial Officer a response to the specified exceptions to the Presiding Officer's Initial Decision.
(b)
Form of review.
Review by the Judicial Officer will be based entirely on the record and written submissions.
(1) The Judicial Officer may affirm, reduce, reverse, or remand any determination about a penalty or assessment by the Presiding Officer.
(2) The Judicial Officer shall not consider any argument or objection that was not raised in the hearing unless the interested party demonstrates that the failure to raise the argument or objection before the Presiding Officer was caused by extraordinary circumstances.
(3) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Judicial Officer that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence, the Judicial Officer may remand the matter to the
Presiding Officer for consideration of such additional evidence.
(c)
Decision of Judicial Officer.
The Judicial Officer shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of his or her decision. The decision of the Judicial Officer constitutes final agency action and becomes final and binding on the parties.
§ 958.19
Form and filing of documents.
(a) Every pleading filed in a proceeding under this part must contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the docket number (after assignment by the Recorder), an accurate designation of the document, and the name, address, and telephone number of the party on whose behalf the paper was filed. It shall also be signed by the party or party representative submitting the document.
(b) All pleadings and documents required under this part must be filed using the Judicial Officer electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. The Judicial Officer electronic filing system website is accessible 24 hours a day at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.
(c) Pleadings or other document transmittals to, or communications with, the Postal Service, other than to the Recorder under paragraph (a) of this section, shall be made through the Determining Official or designated Postal Service attorney. If a notice of appearance by a representative is filed on behalf of the respondent, pleadings or document transmittals to, or communications with, the respondent shall be made through his or her representative.
[74 FR 18631, Apr. 24, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 40193, June 21, 2016; 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 958.20
Service.
If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
[81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016]
§ 958.21
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time provided for by this part, or any order issued pursuant to this part, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day. Except as otherwise provided in these rules or an applicable order, prescribed periods of time are measured in calendar days rather than business days.
§ 958.22
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions may be granted under these rules for good cause shown.
§ 958.23
Settlement.
Either party may make offers of settlement or proposals of adjustment at any time. The Determining Official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle any determinations of liability for civil penalties, clean-up costs and/or damages for mailing hazardous materials and/or related violations under 39 U.S.C. 3018, without the consent of the Presiding Officer or Judicial Officer.
Pt. 959

# PART 959—PRIVATE EXPRESS STATUTES
Sec.
959.1
Authority for rules.
959.2
Scope of rules.
959.3
Office address and business hours; electronic filing.
959.4
Demands for payment of postage.
959.5
Appeals from demands.
959.6
Revocations of suspension.
959.7
Notice of hearing.
959.8
Service of petition filed under § 959.6.
959.9
Filing documents for the record.
959.10
Default.
959.11
Amendment of pleadings.
959.12
Continuances and extensions.
959.13
Hearings.
959.14
Change of place of hearings.
959.15
Appearances.
959.16
Presiding officers.
959.17
Evidence.
959.18
Subpoenas.
959.19
Witness fees.
959.20
Depositions.
959.21
Transcript.
959.22
Proposed findings and conclusions.
959.23
Decisions.
959.24
Exceptions to initial decision or tentative decision.
959.25
Judicial Officer.
959.26
Motion for reconsideration.
959.27
Modification or revocation of orders.
959.28
Computation of time.
959.29
Official record.
959.30
Public information.
959.31
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401; 601-606; 18 U.S.C. 1693-1699; 5 U.S.C. 554; 39 CFR 310, 320.

# Source:
39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 959.1
Authority for rules.
These rules are issued by the Judicial Officer of the U.S. Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
§ 959.2
Scope of rules.
These rules apply to all Postal Service proceedings in which part 310 of this title authorizes appeals to the Judicial Officer from demands for postage for matter carried in violation of the Private Express Statutes, and in proceedings to revoke, as to any person, the suspension of provisions of the Private Express Statutes in accordance with part 320 of this title.
§ 959.3
Office address and business hours; electronic filing.
(a) The offices of the officials identified in these rules are located at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. Normal Business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.
(b) The Judicial Officer electronic filing system website is accessible 24 hours a day at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
.
[81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 959.4
Demands for payment of postage.
Final demands for payment of postage will be accompanied by a copy of these rules and will:
(a) State that the demand is final unless appealed under these rules within 15 days after receipt of the demand;
(b) Describe the transaction on which the demand is based and the provisions of law or regulation alleged to have been violated; and
(c) State the manner in which the amount of the demand is computed.
§ 959.5
Appeals from demands.
(a) A party upon whom a demand for postage has been made may appeal from the demand by filing a petition, in triplicate, with the Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, within 15 days after receipt of the demand.
(b) The petition shall:
(1) Be signed personally by an individual petitioner, by one of the partners of a partnership, or by an officer of a corporation or association;
(2) State the reasons why the person filing the petition (designated the “Petitioner” in these rules) believes the demand is not justified;
(3) Admit or deny each fact alleged in the demand and allege any facts upon which the Petitioner relies to show compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and,
(4) Be accompanied by a copy of the demand.
(c) Factual allegations that are not denied by the petition may be deemed to have been admitted. The demand and the petition (together with other documents authorized in this part) shall become the pleadings in appeals from demands.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.6
Revocations of suspension.
(a) The General Counsel, or a member of the General Counsel's staff as may
be designated, may initiate a revocation of the suspension of the Private Express Statutes as provided in part 320 of this title as to any person, by filing, in triplicate, a petition with the Recorder which
(1) Names the person involved;
(2) States the legal authority under which the proceeding is initiated;
(3) States the facts in a manner sufficient to enable the person named to make answer thereto; and,
(4) Recommends the issuance of an appropriate order.
(b)
Answer.
(1) The person named in the petition (designated the “Respondent” in these rules) shall file an answer with the Recorder within 15 days after being served with a copy of the petition in accordance with § 959.8.
(2) The answer shall contain a concise statement admitting, denying, or explaining each of the allegations set forth in the petition.
(3) Any facts alleged in the petition which are not denied, or which are expressly admitted in the answer, may be considered as proved, and no further evidence regarding these facts need be adduced at the hearing.
(4) The answer shall be signed personally by an individual respondent, or in the case of a partnership, by one of the partners, or, in the case of a corporation or association, by an officer thereof.
(5) The answer shall set forth the respondent's address and the name and address of respondent's attorney, if respondent is represented by counsel.
(6) The answer shall affirmatively state whether the respondent will appear in person or by counsel at the hearing.
(7) If the respondent does not desire to appear at the hearing in person or by counsel, the matter shall be deemed submitted for determination pursuant to paragraph (b) of § 959.10.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.7
Notice of hearing.
When a petition is filed, the Recorder shall issue a notice of hearing, stating the time and place of the hearing and the date for filing an answer which shall not exceed 15 days from the date of service of the petition, and a reference to the effect of failure to file an answer or appear at the hearing. (See §§ 959.5(c), 959.6(b), and 959.10.) Whenever practicable, the hearing date shall be within 30 days of the date of the notice.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.8
Service of petition filed under § 959.6.
(a) The Recorder shall cause a notice of hearing and a copy of the petition to be transmitted to the postmaster at any office of address of the respondent in which the respondent is doing business, which shall be delivered to the respondent or respondent's agent by said postmaster or the postmaster's designee. A receipt acknowledging delivery of the notice shall be secured from the respondent or respondent's agent and forwarded to the Recorder, to become a part of the official record.
(b) If, after 5 days, the postmaster or the postmaster's designee, can find no person to accept service of the notice of hearing and petition pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the notice and copy of the petition may be delivered in the usual manner as other mail addressed to the respondent. A statement, showing the time and place of delivery, signed by the postal employee who delivered the notice of hearing and petition shall be forwarded to the Recorder and such statement shall constitute evidence of service.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.9
Filing documents for the record.
(a) All documents required under this part must be filed using the electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
(b) Documents shall be dated and state the title of the proceeding and, except initial petitions, the docket number. Documents submitted using
the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours.
[81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016]
§ 959.10
Default.
(a) If the respondent fails to file an answer within the time specified in the notice of hearing, the respondent shall be deemed in default and to have waived hearing and further procedural steps. The Judicial Officer shall thereafter issue an order without further notice to the respondent.
(b) If the respondent files an answer but fails to appear at the hearing, the presiding officer shall receive petitioner's evidence and render an initial decision.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.11
Amendment of pleadings.
(a) Amendments proposed prior to the hearing shall be filed with the Recorder. Amendments proposed thereafter shall be filed with the presiding officer.
(b) By consent of the parties, a pleading may be amended at any time. Also, a party may move to amend a pleading at any time prior to the close of the hearing and, provided that the amendment is reasonably within the scope of the proceeding initiated by the petition, the presiding officer shall make such ruling on the motion as he or she deems fair and equitable to the parties.
(c) When issues not raised by the pleadings, but reasonably within the scope of the proceedings initiated by the petition, are tried by express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings. Such amendments as may be necessary to make the pleadings conform to the evidence, and to raise such issues, shall be allowed at any time upon the motion of any party.
(d) If a party objects to the introduction of evidence at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues made by the pleadings, but fails to satisfy the presiding officer that an amendment of the pleadings would prejudice the objecting party on the merits, the presiding officer may allow the amendment and may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to rebut the evidence presented.
(e) The presiding officer may, upon reasonable notice and upon such terms as are just, permit service of supplemental pleadings setting forth transactions, occurrences, or events which have happened since the date of the pleading sought to be supplemented and which are relevant to any of the issues involved.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.12
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions will not be granted by the presiding officer except for good cause found.
§ 959.13
Hearings.
Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, or other locations designated by the presiding officer.
[63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.14
Change of place of hearings.
Not later than the date fixed for the filing of the answer, a party may file a written request that a hearing be held at a place other than that designated in the notice. The party shall support the request with a statement outlining:
(a) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(b) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify; and,
(c) The reasons why such evidence cannot be produced at Arlington, VA. The presiding officer shall give consideration to the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevancy of the evidence to be offered.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.15
Appearances.
(a) A respondent may appear and be heard in person or by attorney.
(b) An attorney may practice before the Postal Service in accordance with the rules in part 951 of this title.
(c) When a respondent is represented by an attorney, all pleadings and other papers subsequent to the initial petition shall be mailed to the attorney.
(d) A respondent must promptly file a notice of change of attorney.
§ 959.16
Presiding officers.
(a) The presiding officer shall be either an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law, or the Judicial Officer. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign cases to Administrative Law Judges upon rotation so far as practicable. The Judicial Officer may, for good cause found, preside at the reception of evidence in proceedings upon request of either party.
(b) The presiding officer shall have authority to:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Examine witnesses;
(3) Rule upon offers of proof, admissibility of evidence and matters of procedure;
(4) Order any pleading amended upon motion of a party at any time prior to the close of the hearing;
(5) Maintain discipline and decorum and exclude from the hearing any person acting in an indecorous manner;
(6) Require the filing of briefs or memoranda of law on any matter upon which he or she is required to rule;
(7) Order prehearing conferences for the purpose of settlement or simplification of issues by the parties;
(8) Order the proceeding reopened at any time prior to his or her decision for the receipt of additional evidence; and,
(9) Render an initial decision if the presiding officer is an Administrative Law Judge, which becomes the final decision of the Postal Service unless a timely appeal is taken; the Judicial Officer may issue a tentative or a final decision.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.17
Evidence.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in these rules, the rules of evidence governing civil proceedings in matters not involving trial by jury in the District courts of the United States shall govern. However, such rules may be relaxed to the extent that the presiding officer deems proper to insure a fair hearing. The presiding officer shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial or repetitious evidence.
(b) Testimony shall be under oath or affirmation and witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination.
(c) Agreed statements of fact may be received into evidence.
(d) Official notice or knowledge may be taken of the types of matters of which judicial notice or knowledge may be taken.
(e) The written statement of a competent witness may be received into evidence provided that such statement is relevant to the issues, that the witness shall testify under oath at the hearing that the statement is in all respects true, and, in the case of expert witnesses, that the statement correctly states his or her opinion or knowledge concerning the matters in question.
(f) A party who objects to the admission of evidence shall make a brief statement of the grounds for the objection. Formal exceptions to the rulings of the presiding officer are unnecessary.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.18
Subpoenas.
The Postal Service is not authorized by law to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance or testimony of witnesses or the production of documents. This does not affect the authority of the Chief Postal Inspector to issue subpoenas for the production of documents or information pursuant to § 233.1(c) of this chapter.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 56 FR 55825, Oct. 30, 1991]
§ 959.19
Witness fees.
The Postal Service does not pay fees and expenses for a respondent's witnesses or for depositions requested by a respondent.
§ 959.20
Depositions.
(a) Not later than 5 days after the filing of respondent's answer, any party
may file an application with the Recorder for the taking of testimony by deposition. In support of such application, the applicant shall submit under oath or affirmation, a statement containing the reasons why such testimony should be taken by deposition, the time and place, and the name and address of the witness whose deposition is desired, the subject matter of the testimony of each witness, its relevancy, and the name and address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken.
(b) If the application be granted, the order shall specify the time and place thereof, the name of the witness, the person before whom the deposition is to be taken, and any other necessary information.
(c) Each deponent shall first be duly sworn, and the adverse party shall have the right to cross-examine. The questions and answers, together with all objections, shall be reduced to writing and, unless waived by stipulation of the parties, shall be read to and subscribed by the witness in the presence of the deposition officer who shall certify it in the usual form. The deposition officer shall file the testimony taken by deposition as directed in the order. All objections made at the time of examination shall be noted by the deposition officer and the evidence objected to shall be taken subject to the objections. In lieu of participating in the oral examination, a party may transmit written interrogatories to the deposition officer, who shall propound them to the witness and record the answers verbatim. Objections to relevancy or materiality of testimony, or to errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form or relevancy or materiality of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of the parties, and errors of any kind which might be obviated, cured or removed if promptly presented, are waived unless timely objection is made at the taking of the deposition.
(d) At the hearing, any part or all of the deposition may be offered into evidence by any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had notice thereof. If the deposition is not offered and received into evidence, it shall not be considered as a part of the record. The admissibility of depositions or parts thereof shall be governed by the rules of evidence.
(e) The party requesting the deposition shall pay all fees required to be paid to witnesses and the deposition officer, and shall provide an original and one copy thereof for the official record, and shall serve one copy upon the opposing party.
(f) Within the United States, or within a territory or possession subject to the dominion of the United States, depositions may be taken before an officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the examination is held; within a foreign country, depositions may be taken before a secretary of an embassy or legation, consul general, vice consul or consular agent of the United States, or any other person designated in the order for the taking of the deposition.
(g) Depositions may also be taken and submitted on written interrogatories in substantially the same manner as depositions taken by oral examination. When a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, none of the parties shall be present or represented, and no person, other than the witness, a stenographic reporter, and the deposition officer, shall be present at the examination of the witness, which fact shall be certified by the deposition officer, who shall propound the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories to the witness in their order and cause the testimony to be reduced to writing in the witness' own words.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.21
Transcript.
(a) Hearings shall be stenographically reported by a contract reporter of the Postal Service under the supervision of the assigned presiding officer. Argument upon any matter may be excluded from the transcript by order of the presiding officer. A copy of the transcript shall be a part of the record and the sole official transcript of the proceeding. Copies of the transcript
shall be supplied to the parties by the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by the contract between the Postal Service and the reporter. Copies of parts of the official record, other than the transcript, may be obtained by the respondent from the reporter upon the payment of a reasonable price therefor.
(b) Changes in the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance, and then only in the manner herein provided. No physical changes shall be made in or upon the official transcript, or copies thereof, which have been filed with the record. Within 10 days after the receipt by any party of a copy of the official transcript, or any part thereof, a party may file a motion requesting correction of the transcript. The opposing party shall, within such time as may be specified by the presiding officer, notify the presiding officer in writing of his or her concurrence or disagreement with the requested corrections. Failure to interpose timely objection to a proposed correction shall be considered to be concurrence. Thereafter, the presiding officer shall by order specify the corrections to be made in the transcript. The presiding officer on his or her own initiative may order corrections to be made in the transcript with prompt notice to the parties of the proceeding. Any changes ordered by the presiding officer other than by agreement of the parties shall be subject to objection and exception.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.22
Proposed findings and conclusions.
(a) Each party, except one who fails to answer the complaint or, having answered, either fails to appear at the hearing or indicates in the answer that he or she does not desire to appear, may submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and supporting reasons either in oral or written form. The presiding officer may also require the parties to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law with supporting reasons.
(b) Proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and supporting reasons not presented orally before the close of the hearing, shall, unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer, be filed within 15 days after the delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder, who shall notify the parties of the date of its receipt. The proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and supporting reasons shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs, and shall state with particularity, all pertinent evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits supporting the proposed findings. Each proposed conclusion of law shall be separately stated.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.23
Decisions.
(a)
Oral decisions.
The presiding officer may, in his or her discretion, render an oral decision (an initial decision by an Administrative Law Judge, or a tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer) at the close of the hearing. A party who desires an oral decision shall notify the presiding officer and the opposing party at least 5 days prior to the date set for the hearing. Either party may submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law either orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing.
(b)
Written initial decision by Administrative Law Judge.
A written initial decision shall be rendered with all due speed. The initial decision shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with the reasons therefor, upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and an appropriate order. The initial decision shall become the final decision of the Postal Service unless an appeal is taken in accordance with § 959.24.
(c)
Written tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer.
When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing, he or she shall issue a final or a tentative decision. Such decision shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with the reasons therefor, upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and appropriate order. The tentative decision shall become the final decision of the Postal Service
unless exceptions are filed in accordance with § 959.24.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.24
Exceptions to initial decision or tentative decision.
(a) A party in a proceeding presided over by an Administrative Law Judge, except a party who failed to file an answer, may appeal to the Judicial Officer by filing exceptions in a brief on appeal within 15 days from the receipt of the Administrative Law Judge's written initial decision.
(b) A party in a proceeding presided over by the Judicial Officer, except one who has failed to file an answer, may file exceptions within 15 days from the receipt of the Judicial Officer's written tentative decision.
(c) When an initial or tentative decision is rendered orally at the close of the hearing, the presiding officer may then establish and orally give notice to the parties participating in the hearing of the time limit within which exceptions must be filed.
(d) Upon receipt of the brief on appeal from an initial decision of an Administrative Law Judge, the Recorder shall promptly transmit the record to the Judicial Officer. The date for filing the reply to a brief on appeal or to a brief in support of exceptions to a tentative decision by the Judicial Officer is 10 days after the receipt thereof. No additional briefs shall be received unless requested by the Judicial Officer.
(e) Briefs on appeal or in support of exceptions and replies thereto shall be filed in triplicate with the Recorder, and contain the following matter in the order indicated:
(1) A subject index of the matters presented, with page references; a table of cases alphabetically arranged; a list of statutes and texts cited, with page references.
(2) A concise abstract or statement of the case.
(3) Numbered exceptions to specific findings of fact or conclusions of law of the presiding officer.
(4) A concise argument clearly setting forth points of fact and of law relied upon in support of, or in opposition to, each exception taken, together with specific references to the pertinent parts of the record and the legal or other authorities relied upon.
(f) Unless permission is granted by the Judicial Officer, no brief on appeal or in support of exceptions shall exceed 50 printed or 100 typewritten pages double spaced.
(g) The Judicial Officer will extend the time to file briefs only upon written motion for good cause found. The Recorder shall promptly notify the movant of the Judicial Officer's decision on the motion. If a brief is not filed within the time prescribed, the defaulting party will be deemed to have abandoned the appeal or waived the exceptions, and the initial or tentative decision shall become the final decision of the Postal Service.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.25
Judicial Officer.
The Judicial Officer is authorized (a) to act as presiding officer at hearings, (b) to render tentative decisions, (c) to render final decisions of the Postal Service, (d) to refer the record in any proceedings to the Postmaster General or the Deputy Postmaster General who will make the final decision of the Postal Service, and (e) to revise or amend these rules of practice. The entire official record will be considered before a final decision of the Postal Service is rendered. Before rendering a final decision of the Postal Service, the Judicial Officer may order the hearing reopened for the presentation of additional evidence by the parties.
§ 959.26
Motion for reconsideration.
A party may file a motion for reconsideration of a final decision of the Postal Service within 10 days after receiving it, or within such longer period as the Judicial Officer may fix. Each motion for reconsideration shall be accompanied by a brief clearly setting forth the points of fact and of law relied upon in support of said motion.
§ 959.27
Modification or revocation of orders.
A party against whom an order has been issued may file with the Recorder an application for modification or revocation, addressed to the Judicial Officer. The Recorder shall transmit a
copy of the application to the General Counsel, who shall file a written reply within 10 days after filing, or such other period as the Judicial Officer may fix. A copy of the reply shall be sent to the applicant by the Recorder. Thereafter an order granting or denying such application in whole or in part will be issued by the Judicial Officer.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.28
Computation of time.
A designated period of time excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the close of business on the next business day.
§ 959.29
Official record.
The transcript of testimony together with all pleadings, orders, exhibits, briefs and other documents filed in the proceedings shall constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 959.30
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial, tentative and final decisions of the Postal Service. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
[39 FR 33213, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 959.31
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d) and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
[42 FR 5358, Jan. 28, 1977]
Pt. 960

# PART 960—EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN POSTAL SERVICE PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
960.1
Purpose of these rules.
960.2
When the Act applies.
960.3
Proceedings covered.
960.4
Eligibility of applicants.
960.5
Standards for awards.
960.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
960.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
960.8
Official authorized to take final action under the Act.

# Subpart B—Information Required from Applicants
960.9
Contents of application.
960.10
Net worth exhibit.
960.11
Documentation of fees and expenses.
960.12
When an application may be filed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
960.13
Filing and service of documents.
960.14
Answer to application.
960.15
Reply.
960.16
Comments by other parties.
960.17
Settlement.
960.18
Further proceedings.
960.19
Decision.
960.20
Further Postal Service review.
960.21
Judicial review.
960.22
Payment of award.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504 (c)(1); 39 U.S.C. 204, 401 (2).

# Source:
46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 960.1
Purpose of these rules.
The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (called “the Act” in this part), provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to certain administrative proceedings (called “adversary adjudications”) before the Postal Service. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the Postal Service, unless the Postal Service's position was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Postal Service will use to make them.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6797, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.2
When the Act applies.
The Act applies to any adversary adjudication pending or commenced before the Postal Service on or after August 5, 1985. It also applies to any adversary adjudication commenced on or after October 1, 1984, and finally disposed of before August 5, 1985, provided that an application for fees and expenses, as described in subpart B of these rules, has been filed with the Postal Service within 30 days after August 5, 1985, and to any adversary adjudication pending on or commenced on or after October 1, 1981, in which an application for fees and other expenses was timely filed and was dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.
[52 FR 6797, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.3
Proceedings covered.
(a) The Act applies to adversary adjudications conducted by the Postal Service. These are:
(1) Adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the Postal Service is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding (for the Postal Service, the types of proceedings generally covered are proceedings relative to false representation and cease and desist orders and mailability under chapter 30 of title 39, U.S.C., with the exception of proceedings under 39 U.S.C. 3008); and
(2) Appeals of decisions of contracting officers made pursuant to section 6 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605) before the Postal Service Board of Contract Appeals as provided in section 8 of that Act. (41 U.S.C. 607).
(b) The Postal Service may also designate a proceeding not listed in paragraph (a) of this section as an adversary adjudication for purposes of the Act by so stating in an order initiating the proceeding or designating the matter for hearing. The failure to designate a proceeding as an adversary adjudication shall not preclude the filing of an application by a party who believes the proceeding is covered by the Act; whether the proceeding is covered will then be an issue for resolution in proceedings on the application.
(c) If a proceeding includes both matters covered by the Act and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987; 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 960.4
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show by clear and convincing evidence that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart and in subpart B and must submit additional information to verify its eligibility upon order by the adjudicative officer.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; and
(5) Any other partnerships, corporation, association, unit of local government, or organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees.
(c) For the purposes of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated, which in proceedings before the Board of Contract Appeals is the date the applicant files its appeal to the Board.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant
prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this part, unless the adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.5
Standards for awards.
(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, including expenses and fees incurred in filing for an award under the Act, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the agency over which the applicant has prevailed was substantially justified. The position of the agency includes in addition to the position taken by the agency in the adversary adjudication, the action or failure to act by the agency upon which the adversary adjudication is based. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible prevailing applicant is on Postal Service counsel.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a) Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant. Attorney fees may not be recovered by parties appearing
pro se
in postal proceedings.
(b) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under these rules may exceed $125.00 per hour, or such rate as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 504. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which the Postal Service pays expert witnesses. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent or expert witness, the adjudicative officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate
for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987; 66 FR 55577, Nov. 2, 2001]
§ 960.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
(a) If warranted by an increase in the cost of living or by special circumstances (such as limited availability of attorneys qualified to handle certain types of proceedings), the Postal Service may adopt regulations providing that attorney fees may be awarded at a rate higher than $125.00 per hour, or such rate as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 504, in some or all of the types of proceedings covered by this part. The Postal Service will conduct any rulemaking proceedings for this purpose under the informal rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(b) Any person may request the Postal Service to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to increase the maximum rate for attorney fees. The request should identify the rate the person believes the Postal Service should establish and the types of proceedings in which the rate should be used. It should also explain fully the reasons why the higher rate is warranted. The Postal Service will respond to the request within 60 days after it is filed, by determining to initiate a rulemaking proceeding, denying the request, or taking other appropriate action.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 66 FR 55577, Nov. 2, 2001]
§ 960.8
Official authorized to take final action under the Act.
The Postal Service official who renders the final agency decision in a proceeding under § 952.26 or § 953.15, or the panel that renders the decision in an appeal before the Board of Contract Appeals under part 955 procedures, as the case may be, is authorized to take final action on matters pertaining to the Equal Access to Justice Act as applied to the proceeding.
[52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
§ 960.9
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the Postal Service in the proceeding that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates.) However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or
(2) It states on the application that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Postal Service to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.10
Net worth exhibit.
(a) Each applicant except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in § 960.4(f)) when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The adjudicative officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(b) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the adjudicative officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information”, accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (1) through (9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on counsel representing the agency against which the applicant seeks an award, but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the adjudicative officer finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be disposed of in accordance with the Postal Service's established procedures under the Freedom of Information Act, part 265 of this title.
§ 960.11
Documentation of fees and expenses.
(a) The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter, for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed. In addition, the Board of Contract Appeals may require an applicant to submit to an audit by the Postal Service of its claimed fees and expenses.
(b) Where the case has been sustained in part and denied in part or where the applicant has prevailed in only a significant and discrete substantive portion of the case, the application must be limited to fees and expenses allocable to the portion of the case as to which the applicant was the prevailing party.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.12
When an application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, but in no case later than 30 days after the Postal Service's final disposition of the proceeding.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision as to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) For purposes of this rule, final disposition means the later of (1) the date on which an initial decision or
other recommended disposition of the merits of the proceeding by an adjudicative officer or intermediate review board becomes administratively final;
(2) Issuance of an order disposing of any petitions for reconsideration of the Postal Service's final order in the proceeding;
(3) If no petition for reconsideration is filed, the last date on which such a petition could have been filed;
(4) Issuance of a final order or any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, which is not subject to a petition for reconsideration;
(5) In proceedings under 39 U.S.C. 3005, on the date that an Administrative Law Judge enters an order indefinitely suspending further proceedings on the basis of a compromise agreement entered into between the parties; or
(6) In proceedings before the Board of Contract Appeals, the Board of Contract Appeals decision on quantum. When the Board decides only entitlement and remands the issue of quantum to the parties, the final disposition occurs when the parties execute an agreement on quantum, or if the parties cannot agree on quantum and resubmit the quantum dispute to the Board, when the Board issues a decision on quantum.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 960.13
Filing and service of documents.
Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding, except as provided in § 960.11(b) for confidential financial information.
§ 960.14
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the Postal Service may file an answer to the application. Unless the Postal Service counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period may be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If the Postal Service counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon request by Postal Service counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the Postal Service's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the Postal Service shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 960.19.
§ 960.15
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 960.19.
§ 960.16
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and Postal Service may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the adjudicative officer determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
§ 960.17
Settlement.
The applicant and the Postal Service may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a
settlement of the underlying proceeding, or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded. If a prevailing party and Postal Service counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 960.18
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or Postal Service counsel, or on his or her own initiative, the adjudicative officer may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible. Whether or not the position of the agency was substantially justified shall be determined on the basis of the entire administrative record that is made in the adversary adjudication for which fees and other expenses are sought.
(b) A request that the adjudicative officer order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.19
Decision.
(a) The adjudicative officer shall issue an initial decision on the application as promptly as possible after completion of proceedings on the application. The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the Postal Service's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award against the Postal Service and another agency, the decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made between the Postal Service and the other agency, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made.
(b) The Board of Contract Appeals shall issue its decision on the application as promptly as possible after completion of proceedings on the application. Whenever possible, the decision shall be made by the same Administrative Judge or panel that decided the contract appeal for which fees are sought. The decision shall be in the format described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.20
Further Postal Service review.
(a) Either the applicant or Postal Service counsel may seek review of the initial decision on the fee application, in accordance with § 952.25 or § 953.14. If neither the applicant nor the Postal Service counsel seeks review, the initial decision on the application shall become a final decision of the Postal Service 30 days after it is issued. If review is taken, the Judicial Officer will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.
(b) In Board of Contract Appeals proceedings, either party may seek reconsideration of the decision on the fee application in accordance with the procedures in 39 CFR part 955.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 6798, Mar. 5, 1987; 90 FR 25501, June 17, 2025]
§ 960.21
Judicial review.
A party other than the Postal Service may, within 30 days after a determination on the award is made, appeal the determination to the court of the United States having jurisdiction to review the merits of the underlying decision of the agency adversary adjudication in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
[52 FR 6799, Mar. 5, 1987]
§ 960.22
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the Judicial Officer a copy of the Postal Service's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. Requests for payment should be sent to: Judicial Officer, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The Judicial Officer shall submit certification for payment to the Postal Data Center. The Postal Service will pay the amount awarded to the applicant within 60 days, unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.
[46 FR 45945, Sept. 16, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 66052, Dec. 1, 1998]
Pt. 961

# PART 961—DEBT COLLECTION ACT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST CURRENT EMPLOYEES
Sec.
961.1
(Rule 1) Authority for rules in this part.
961.2
(Rule 2) Scope of rules in this part.
961.3
(Rule 3) Definitions.
961.4
(Rule 4) Employee petition for a hearing.
961.5
(Rule 5) Effect of filing a petition.
961.6
(Rule 6) Filing, docketing, and serving documents; computation of time; representation of parties.
961.7
(Rule 7) Answer to petition.
961.8
(Rule 8) Hearing Official's authority and responsibilities.
961.9
(Rule 9) Oral hearing or submission on the written record.
961.10
(Rule 10) Effect of Hearing Official's decision; motion for reconsideration.
961.11
(Rule 11) Consequences for failure to comply with rules in this part.
961.12
(Rule 12) Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401; 5 U.S.C. 5514.

# Source:
90 FR 9220, Feb. 10, 2025, unless otherwise noted.
§ 961.1
(Rule 1) Authority for rules in this part.
This part is issued by the Judicial Officer under authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
§ 961.2
(Rule 2) Scope of rules in this part.
This part applies to:
(a) The hearing provided by section 5 of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 5514, and in accordance with the Employee and Labor Relations Manual, sections 450 and 460, challenging the existence, amount, or the repayment schedule of an employee debt to the Postal Service; or
(b) A hearing under section 5 of the Debt Collection Act when the Judicial Officer Department adjudicates a petition for a creditor agency under an agreement between the Postal Service and that agency. In such cases, all references to Postal Service in this part will be construed to refer to the creditor agency.
§ 961.3
(Rule 3) Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Employee.
A current Postal Service employee who is alleged to be indebted to the Postal Service.
(b)
General Counsel.
The General Counsel of the Postal Service or the General Counsel's designee.
(c)
Hearing Official.
(1) An Administrative Law Judge qualified to hear cases under the Administrative Procedure Act;
(2) An Administrative Judge appointed under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended; or
(3) Any other qualified person who is not under the control or supervision of the Postmaster General and is designated by the Judicial Officer to conduct the hearing.
(d)
Judicial Officer.
The Judicial Officer, Associate Judicial Officer, or Acting Judicial Officer of the Postal Service.
(e)
Notice of involuntary administrative salary offset.
The formal written notice required by section 5 of the Debt Collection Act, including the provision of notice of the procedures under this part, before involuntary offset may be taken from an employee's salary.
(f)
Days.
Calendar days.
(g)
Recorder.
The Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, United States Postal Service, located at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The Recorder's telephone
number is (703) 812-1900, and the fax number is (703) 812-1901.
§ 961.4
(Rule 4) Employee petition for a hearing.
(a) If an employee wants to challenge the existence, amount, or repayment schedule of a debt assessed under section 5 of the Debt Collection Act, the employee or their representative must file a written petition electronically at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com,
or by mail at Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The petition must be filed on or before the 15th day following the receipt of the Postal Service's notice of involuntary administrative salary offset. The Hearing Official may waive this deadline for good cause timely shown. If the Postal Service initiated involuntary administrative salary offset without issuing a notice as required by the Debt Collection Act, the Hearing Official may retain authority to resolve the debt assessment as if a notice had been issued and may order the Postal Service to return any improperly offset money.
(b) A sample petition is available at the Judicial Officer Electronic Filing website (
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
). The petition should include the following:
(1) The words “Petition for Hearing under the Debt Collection Act” at the top of the first page.
(2) The employee's name, work address, home address, primary telephone number, email address, and, if applicable, any other address and telephone number at which the employee may be contacted during normal business hours.
(3) The date on which the employee received the notice of involuntary administrative salary offset.
(4) A copy of the notice of involuntary administrative salary offset.
(5) A statement indicating whether the employee challenges:
(i) The existence of the debt identified in the notice of involuntary administrative salary offset;
(ii) The amount of the debt identified in the notice of involuntary administrative salary offset; and
(iii) The involuntary repayment terms established by the Postal Service in the notice of involuntary administrative salary offset.
(iv) For each challenge, the petition should describe the basis of the employee's disagreement. The employee should identify and explain the facts, evidence, and legal arguments that support the petition.
(6) Copies of all records in the employee's possession that relate to the debt.
(7) If an employee contends that the Postal Service's proposed offset schedule would result in a severe financial hardship for either the employee or the employee's spouse or dependents, the employee must propose an alternative offset schedule. The employee must provide a statement and supporting documents showing the employee's financial status. This statement must address total income from all sources; assets; liabilities; number of dependents; and expenses for food, housing, clothing, transportation, medical care, and exceptional expenses, if any.
(c) The employee must file any additional information directed by the Hearing Official.
§ 961.5
(Rule 5) Effect of filing a petition.
After receipt and docketing of the employee's petition for a hearing, further collection activity by the Postal Service must cease as required by section 5 of the Debt Collection Act until the petition is resolved by the Hearing Official.
§ 961.6
(Rule 6) Filing, docketing, and serving documents; computation of time; representation of parties.
(a)
Filing.
The Judicial Officer Department calculates all filing deadlines in Eastern Time. After a petition is filed, all documents relating to the petition must be filed using the electronic filing system, unless the Hearing Official permits otherwise. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date and time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed. Filings by any other means are considered filed when
the Recorder receives a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. The Recorder's normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m., Eastern Time. Documents filed by other means after 4:45 p.m., Eastern Time, or on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, will be considered filed on the next business day.
(b)
Docketing.
The Recorder will maintain a record of Debt Collection Act petitions and will assign a docket number to each case. After notification of the docket number, the employee and the Postal Service must refer to the docket number on all further filings.
(c)
Service.
If both parties have access to the electronic filing system, separate service on the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents must be served personally, by mail, or by email on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
(d)
Time computation.
A filing period excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period, unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which case the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Requests for extensions of time must:
(1) Be made in writing before the date on which the submission is due;
(2) State the reason for the request;
(3) Represent that the moving party has contacted the opposing party about the request, or made reasonable efforts to do so; and
(4) Indicate whether the opposing party consents to the extension. Requests for extensions of time submitted after the date on which the submission was due must explain why the moving party was unable to request an extension before the deadline.
(e)
Representation of parties.
The Postal Service's representative, as designated by the General Counsel, must file a notice of appearance as soon as practicable, but no later than the date the answer is filed. Employees may represent themselves or be represented by an attorney or other designated person. As applicable, an employee's representative must file a notice of appearance as soon as practicable. The Postal Service must direct all further communications and documents to the employee's representative. A representative who later withdraws must file a notice that includes the name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the person who will assume responsibility for representing the party.
§ 961.7
(Rule 7) Answer to petition.
The Postal Service must file an answer to the petition by the date set out in the docketing notice. The Postal Service must attach all documents that are available and relevant to the Postal Service's debt claim and the proposed administrative salary offset schedule. The answer must include a clear and thorough description of the basis for the alleged debt, a calculation of the amount of the alleged debt, and a proposed offset schedule.
§ 961.8
(Rule 8) Hearing Official's authority and responsibilities.
The Hearing Official's authority includes, but is not limited to:
(a) Ruling on motions and requests by the parties.
(b) Issuing notices, orders, and memoranda to the parties concerning the hearing proceedings.
(c) Conducting telephone conferences with the parties to expedite the proceedings and schedule further proceedings. The Hearing Official will prepare a memorandum of telephone conference, which will be sent to both parties and will serve as the official record of that conference.
(d) Determining whether the petition will be decided after an oral hearing or on the written record. If an oral hearing is held, the Hearing Official will set the place, date, and time for a hearing.
(e) Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
(f) Conducting the hearing in a manner to maintain discipline and decorum while ensuring that relevant, reliable, and probative evidence is elicited on the issues in dispute and irrelevant, immaterial, or repetitious evidence is excluded. The Hearing Official may examine witnesses to ensure that a satisfactory record is developed.
(g) Establishing the record in the case. The weight to be attached to any evidence will rest within the Hearing Official's discretion. Except as the Hearing Official may otherwise allow, no evidence will be received after completion of an oral hearing or, in cases submitted on the written record, after notification by the Hearing Official that the record is closed. The Hearing Official may require either party, with appropriate notice to the other party, to submit additional evidence on any relevant matter at any time within the Hearing Official's discretion.
(h) Granting reasonable time extensions, suspending proceedings, or other relief for good cause shown in the Hearing Official's sole discretion.
(i) Issuing the final decision. The decision will include a determination of the validity and amount of the alleged debt and, where applicable, the repayment schedule. The Hearing Official will issue the decision as soon as practicable after the close of the record. Collection activity remains stayed until the decision is issued.
§ 961.9
(Rule 9) Oral hearing or submission on the written record.
(a) An oral hearing may be held at the sole discretion of the Hearing Official. An oral hearing may be conducted in-person, by telephone, by video conference, or other appropriate means at the discretion of the Hearing Official. The Hearing Official will arrange for the preparation of a transcript of the hearing. That transcript will be the official record of the hearing. In the event of an unexcused absence of one of the parties, the hearing may proceed without the absent party.
(b) If an oral hearing is not held, the record may be supplemented with affidavits or declarations. The Hearing Official's decision will be based on the written submissions. Submission on the written record does not relieve the parties from the necessity of proving the facts supporting their allegations or defenses.
§ 961.10
(Rule 10) Effect of Hearing Official's decision; motion for reconsideration.
(a) After the receipt of written submissions or after the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Official will issue a written decision. The decision will include findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(b) The Hearing Official will send each party a copy of the decision. The Hearing Official's decision is the final administrative determination on the employee's debt or repayment schedule, subject to a timely motion for reconsideration.
(c) A motion for reconsideration must be filed within 10 days from receipt of the decision and will be allowed only at the discretion of the Hearing Official. A motion for reconsideration by the employee will not stay any collection action authorized by the Hearing Official's decision.
§ 961.11
(Rule 11) Consequences for failure to comply with rules in this part.
(a) The Hearing Official may determine that the employee has waived their right to a hearing and that administrative offset may be initiated if the employee does not show good cause for failing to file a timely petition.
(b) The Hearing Official may grant a petition, and as appropriate, invalidate a debt if, in the absence of good cause and after failing to comply with an order by the Hearing Official, the Postal Service fails to file a timely answer. If the petition is granted for this reason, the Postal Service will be prohibited from collecting the debt by involuntary administrative salary offset.
(c) If a party fails to comply with this part or the Hearing Official's orders, the Hearing Official may take reasonable and proper action under the circumstances, including dismissing, denying, or granting the petition as appropriate.
§ 961.12
(Rule 12) Ex parte communications.
Except as described in this section, a party may not communicate with a Hearing Official or other member of the Judicial Officer Department without the other party present. Exceptions:
(a) A Hearing Official or other member of the Judicial Officer Department may talk to a party individually to discuss procedural matters.
(b) A Hearing Official may talk to a party individually when a telephone conference or hearing has been scheduled and the other party does not appear.
Pt. 962

# PART 962—PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
Sec.
962.1
Purpose.
962.2
Definitions.
962.3
Petition for hearing.
962.4
Referral of complaint.
962.5
Scope of hearing; evidentiary standard.
962.6
Notice of hearing.
962.7
Hearing location.
962.8
Rights of parties.
962.9
Responsibilities and authority of presiding officer.
962.10
Prehearing conferences.
962.11
Respondent access to information.
962.12
Depositions; interrogatories; admission of facts; production and inspection of documents.
962.13
Subpoenas.
962.14
Enforcement of subpoenas.
962.15
Sanctions.
962.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or presiding official.
962.17
Ex parte communications.
962.18
Post-hearing briefs.
962.19
Transcript of proceedings.
962.20
Initial decision.
962.21
Appeal of initial decision to judicial officer.
962.22
Form and filing of documents.
962.23
Service.
962.24
Computation of time.
962.25
Continuances and extensions.
962.26
Settlement.
962.27
Limitations.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3801-12; 39 U.S.C. 401; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 962.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the procedures governing the hearing and appeal rights of any person alleged to be liable for civil penalties and assessments under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 (codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
§ 962.2
Definitions.
(a)
Attorney
refers to an individual authorized to practice law in any of the United States or the District of Columbia or a territory of the United States.
(b)
Complaint
refers to the administrative Complaint served by the Reviewing Official on a Respondent pursuant to § 273.8 of this title.
(c)
Initial Decision
refers to the written decision which the Presiding Officer is required by § 962.20 to render, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand.
(d)
Investigating Official
refers to the Inspector General of the United States Postal Service or any designee within the Office of the Inspector General.
(e)
Judicial Officer
refers to the Judicial Officer or Acting Judicial Officer of the United States Postal Service or for purposes other than specified in § 962.21 any designee within the Judicial Officer Department.
(f)
Party
refers to the Postal Service or the Respondent.
(g)
Person
refers to any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization.
(h)
Postmaster General
refers to the Postmaster General of the United States or his designee.
(i)
Presiding Officer
refers to an Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct a hearing authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3803.
(j) Recorder refers to the Recorder of the United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078.
(k)
Representative
refers to an attorney or other advocate.
(l)
Respondent
refers to any person alleged to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under 31 U.S.C. 3802.
(m)
Reviewing Official
refers to the General Counsel of the Postal Service or any designee within the Law Department who serves in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate payable under section 5376 of title 5 of the United States Code.
[52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998; 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002; 81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016]
§ 962.3
Petition for hearing.
Within 30 days of receiving the Postal Service's Complaint, issued pursuant to § 273.8 of this title, alleging liability under 31 U.S.C. 3802, the Respondent
may request a hearing under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act by filing a written Hearing Petition with the Recorder in accordance with § 962.22(b). The Respondent's Petition must include the following:
(a) The words “Petition for Hearing Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act,” or other words reasonably identifying it as such;
(b) The name of the Respondent as well as his or her work and home addresses, and work and home telephone numbers; or other address and telephone number where the Respondent may be contacted about the hearing proceedings;
(c) A statement of the date the Respondent received the Complaint issued by the Reviewing Official;
(d) A statement indicating whether the Respondent requests an oral hearing or a decision on the record;
(e) If the Respondent requests an oral hearing, a statement proposing a city for the hearing site, with justification for holding the hearing in that city, as well as recommended dates for the hearing; and
(f) A statement admitting or denying each of the allegations of liability made in the Complaint, and stating any defense on which the Respondent intends to rely.
§ 962.4
Referral of complaint.
(a) If the Respondent fails to request a hearing within the specified period, the Reviewing Official shall transmit the Complaint to the Judicial Officer for referral to a Presiding Officer, who shall issue an initial decision based upon the information contained in the Complaint.
(b) If the Respondent files a Hearing Petition, the Reviewing Official, upon receiving a copy of the Petition, shall promptly transmit to the Presiding Officer a copy of the Postal Service's Complaint.
§ 962.5
Scope of hearing; evidentiary standard.
(a) A hearing under this part shall be conducted by the Presiding Officer on the record (1) to determine whether the Respondent is liable under 31 U.S.C. 3802, and (2) if so, to determine the amount of any civil penalty or assessment to be imposed.
(b) The Postal Service must prove its case against a Respondent by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The parties may offer at a hearing on the merits such relevant evidence as they deem appropriate and as would be admissible under the generally accepted rules of evidence applied in the courts of the United States in nonjury trials, subject, however, to the sound discretion of the Presiding Officer in supervising the extent and manner of presentation of such evidence. In general, admissibility will hinge on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
§ 962.6
Notice of hearing.
(a) Within a reasonable time after receiving the Respondent's Hearing Petition and the Complaint, the Presiding Officer shall serve, in accordance with § 962.23, upon the Respondent and the Reviewing Official, a Notice of Hearing containing the information set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The Notice of Hearing required by paragraph (a) of this section must include:
(1) The tentative hearing site, date, and time;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The nature of the hearing;
(4) The matters of fact and law to be decided;
(5) A description of the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing; and
(6) Such other information as the Presiding Officer deems appropriate.
§ 962.7
Hearing location.
An oral hearing under this part shall be held
(a) In the judicial district of the United States in which the Respondent resides or transacts business; or
(b) In the judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement upon which the allegation of
liability under 31 U.S.C. 3802 was made, presented, or submitted; or
(c) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the Respondent and the Presiding Officer.
§ 962.8
Rights of parties.
Any party to a hearing under this part shall have the right
(a) To be accompanied, represented, and advised, by a representative of his own choosing;
(b) To participate in any prehearing or post-hearing conference held by the Presiding Officer;
(c) To agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(d) To make opening and closing statements at the hearing;
(e) To present oral and documentary evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) To submit rebuttal evidence;
(g) To conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts; and
(h) To submit written briefs, proposed findings of fact, and proposed conclusions of law.
§ 962.9
Responsibilities and authority of presiding officer.
(a) The Presiding Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The Presiding Officer's authority includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Establishing, upon adequate notice to all parties, the date and time of the hearing, as well as, in accordance with § 962.7, selecting the hearing site;
(2) Holding conferences, by telephone or in person, to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(3) Continuing or recessing the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(4) Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses;
(5) Issuing subpoenas, requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence which the Presiding Officer considers relevant and material to the hearing;
(6) Ruling on all offers, motions, requests by the parties, and other procedural matters;
(7) Issuing any notices, orders, or memoranda to the parties concerning the proceedings;
(8) Regulating the scope and timing of discovery;
(9) Regulating the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their representatives;
(10) Examining witnesses;
(11) Receiving, ruling on, excluding, or limiting evidence in order to assure that relevant, reliable and probative evidence is elicited on the issues in dispute, but irrelevant, immaterial or repetitious evidence is excluded;
(12) Deciding cases, upon motion of a party, in whole or in part by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Establishing the record in the case; and
(14) Issuing a written initial decision containing findings of fact, conclusions of law, and determinations with respect to whether a penalty or assessment should be imposed, and if so, the amount of such penalty or assessment.
§ 962.10
Prehearing conferences.
(a) At a reasonable time in advance of the hearing, and with adequate notice to all parties, the Presiding Officer may conduct, in person or by telephone, one or more prehearing conference to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations or admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Exchange of witness lists, copies of prior statements of witnesses, and copies of hearing exhibits;
(6) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(7) Discovery;
(8) Possible changes in the scheduled hearing date, time or site; and
(9) Any other matters related to the proceeding.
(b) Within a reasonable time after the completion of a prehearing conference, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order detailing all matters agreed upon by the parties, or ordered by the Presiding Officer, at such conference.
§ 962.11
Respondent access to information.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Respondent, at any time after receiving the Notice of Hearing required by § 962.6, may review, and upon payment of a duplication fee established under § 265.8(c) of this title, may obtain a copy of, all relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials, which relate to the allegations of liability, and upon which the findings and conclusions of the Investigating Official under § 273.5 of this title are based.
(2) The Respondent is not entitled to review or obtain a copy of any document, transcript, record, or other material which is privileged under Federal law.
(b) At any time after receiving the Notice of Hearing required by § 962.6, the Respondent shall be entitled to obtain all exculpatory information in the possession of the Investigating Official or the Reviewing Official relating to the allegations or liability under 31 U.S.C. 3802. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any document, transcript, record, or other material, or any portion thereof, in which such exculpatory information is contained.
(c) Requests to review or copy material under this section must be directed to the Reviewing Official who must respond within a reasonable time.
§ 962.12
Depositions; interrogatories; admission of facts; production and inspection of documents.
(a)
General Policy and protective orders.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures. In connection with any discovery procedure permitted under this part, the Presiding Officer may issue any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. Such orders may include limitations on the scope, method, time and place for discovery, and provisions for protecting the secrecy of confidential information or documents. Each party shall bear its own expenses relating to discovery.
(b)
Depositions.
(1) After the issuance of a Notice of Hearing described in § 962.6, the parties may mutually agree to, or the Presiding Officer may, upon application of either party and for good cause shown, order the taking of testimony of any person by deposition upon oral examination or written interrogatories before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination, for use as evidence or for purposes of discovery. The application for order shall specify whether the purpose of the deposition is discovery or for use as evidence.
(2) The time, place, and manner of taking depositions shall be as mutually agreed by the parties, or failing such agreement, governed by order of the Presiding Officer.
(3) No testimony taken by depositions shall be considered as part of the evidence in the hearing unless and until such testimony is offered and received in evidence at such hearing. Depositions will not ordinarily be received in evidence if the deponent is present and can testify personally at the hearing. In such instances, however, the deposition may be used to contradict or impeach the testimony of the witness given at the hearing. In cases submitted for a decision on the record, the Presiding Officer may, in his discretion, receive depositions as evidence in supplementation of that record.
(c)
Interrogatories to parties.
After the issuance of a Notice of Hearing described in § 962.6, a party may serve on the other party written interrogatories to be answered separately in writing, signed under oath and returned within 30 days. Upon timely objection by the party, the Presiding Officer will determine the extent to which the interrogatories will be permitted.
(d)
Admission of facts.
After the issuance of a Notice of Hearing described in § 962.6, a party may serve upon the other party a request for the admission of specified facts. Within 30 days after service, the party served shall answer each requested fact or file objections thereto. The factual propositions set out in the request shall be deemed admitted upon the failure of a party to respond to the request for admission.
(e)
Production and inspection of documents.
Upon motion of any party showing good cause therefor, and upon notice, the Presiding Officer may order the other party to produce and permit the inspection and copying or photographing of any designated documents or objects, not privileged, specifically identified, and their relevance and materiality to the cause or causes in issue explained, which are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery or admissible evidence. If the parties cannot themselves agree thereon, the Presiding Officer shall specify just terms and conditions in making the inspection and taking the copies and photographs.
(f)
Limitations.
Under no circumstances may a discovery procedure be used to reach
(1) Documents, transcripts, records, or other material which a person is not entitled to review pursuant to § 962.11;
(2) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the Reviewing Official under § 273.6 of this title; or
(3) Other documents which are privileged under Federal law.
[52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 962.13
Subpoenas.
(a)
General.
Upon written request of either party filed with the Recorder or on his own initiative, the Presiding Officer may issue a subpoena requiring:
(1)
Testimony at a deposition.
The deposing of a witness in the city or county where he resides or is employed or transacts his business in person, or at another location convenient for him that is specifically determined by the Presiding Officer;
(2)
Testimony at a hearing.
The attendance of a witness for the purpose of taking testimony at a hearing; and
(3)
Production of books and papers.
In addition to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the production by the witness at the deposition or hearing of books and papers designated in the subpoena.
(b)
Voluntary cooperation.
Each party is expected (1) to cooperate and make available witnesses and evidence under its control as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena, and (2) to secure voluntary attendance of desired third-party books, papers, documents, or other tangible things whenever possible.
(c)
Requests for subpoenas.
(1) A request for a subpoena shall normally be filed at least:
(i) 15 days before a scheduled deposition where the attendance of a witness at a deposition is sought;
(ii) 30 days before a scheduled hearing where the attendance of a witness at a hearing is sought.
(2) A request for a subpoena shall state the reasonable scope and general relevance to the case of the testimony and of any books, papers, documents, or other tangible things sought.
(3) The Presiding Officer, in his discretion, may honor requests for subpoenas not made within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.
(d)
Requests to quash or modify.
Upon written request by the person subpoenaed or by a party, made within 10 days after service but in any event not later than the time specified in the subpoena for compliance, the Presiding Officer may (1) quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for other good cause shown, or (2) require the person in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed books and papers. Where circumstances require, the Presiding Officer may act upon such a request at any time after a copy has been served upon the opposing party.
(e)
Form; issuance.
(1) Every subpoena shall state the title of the proceeding, shall cite 31 U.S.C. 3804(b) as the authority under which it is issued, and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony, and if appropriate, to produce specified books and papers at a time and place therein specified. In issuing a
subpoena to a requesting party, the Presiding Officer shall sign the subpoena and may, in his discretion, enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave it blank. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall complete the subpoena before service.
(2) Where the witness is located in a foreign country, a letter rogatory or subpoena may be issued and served under the circumstances and in the manner provided in 28 U.S.C. 1781-1784.
(f)
Service.
(1) The party requesting issuance of a subpoena shall arrange for service.
(2) A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a deposition or hearing may be served at any place. A subpoena may be served by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age. Service of a subpoena upon a person named therein shall be made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for one day's attendance and the mileage provided by 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable law.
(3) The party at whose instance a subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness and of the officer who serves the subpoena. The failure to make payment of such charges on demand may be deemed by the Presiding Officer as sufficient ground for striking the testimony of the witness and the evidence the witness has produced.
[52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 962.14
Enforcement of subpoenas.
In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to §§ 962.9(b)(5) and 962.13, the district courts of the United States have jurisdiction to issue an appropriate order for the enforcement of such subpoena. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be punishable as contempt. In any case in which the Postal Service seeks the enforcement of a subpoena under this section, the Postal Service shall request the Attorney General to petition the district court for the district in which a hearing under this part is being conducted or in which the person receiving the subpoena resides or conducts business to issue such an order.
§ 962.15
Sanctions.
(a) The Presiding Officer may sanction a person, including any party or representative, for
(1) Failing to comply with a lawful order or prescribed procedure;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) Failure to comply with an order. When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the Presiding Officer may:
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) Prohibit such party from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought;
(3) Permit the requesting party to introduce secondary evidence concerning the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) Failure to prosecute or defend. If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a Complaint, the Presiding Officer may dismiss the action or enter an order of default.
(e) Failure to make timely filing. The Presiding Officer may refuse to consider any motion or other pleading, report, or response which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 962.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or presiding official.
If a Respondent believes, in good faith, that the Reviewing Official or Presiding Officer should be disqualified because of personal bias, or other reason, the Respondent may file a timely
and sufficient affidavit alleging such belief with supporting evidence. If the Presiding Officer finds that such allegations concerning the Reviewing Official are meritorious, he may direct the Reviewing Official to disqualify himself and request the appointment of a new Reviewing Official. Where a Respondent seeks the disqualification of a Presiding Officer, such Presiding Officer, may, in his discretion, disqualify himself at any time during the proceeding. In the event a Reviewing Official or Presiding Officer withdraws from a hearing, the proceeding shall be stayed until the assignment of a new Reviewing Official or Presiding Officer.
§ 962.17
Ex parte communications.
Communications between a Presiding Officer and a party shall not be made on any matter in issue unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This prohibition does not apply to procedural matters. A memorandum of any communication between the Presiding Officer and a party shall be transmitted by the Presiding Officer to all parties.
§ 962.18
Post-hearing briefs.
Post-hearing briefs and reply briefs may be submitted upon such terms as established by the Presiding Officer at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 962.19
Transcript of proceedings.
Testimony and argument at hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the Presiding Officer orders otherwise. Transcripts or copies of the proceedings may be obtained by the parties at such rates as may be fixed by contract between the reporter and the Postal Service.
§ 962.20
Initial decision.
(a) After the conclusion of the hearing, and the receipt of briefs, if any, from the parties, the Presiding Officer shall issue a written initial decision, including his or her findings and determinations. Such decision shall include the findings of fact and conclusions of law which the Presiding Officer relied upon in determining whether the Respondent is liable under 31 U.S.C. 3802, and, if liability is found, shall set forth the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The Presiding Officer shall promptly send to each party a copy of his or her initial decision, and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable under 31 U.S.C. 3802, to appeal, in accordance with § 962.21, the decision of the Presiding Officer to the Judicial Officer.
(c) Unless the Respondent appeals the Presiding Officer's initial decision, such decision, including the findings and determinations, is final.
§ 962.21
Appeal of initial decision to judicial officer.
(a)
Notice of appeal and supporting brief.
(1) A Respondent may appeal an adverse initial decision by filing, within 30 days after the Presiding Officer issues an initial decision, a Notice of Appeal with the Recorder. The Judicial Officer may extend the filing period if the Respondent files a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and demonstrates good cause for such extension.
(2) The Respondent's Notice of Appeal must be accompanied by a written brief specifying the Respondent's exceptions, and any reasons for such exceptions, to the Presiding Officer's initial decision.
(3) Within 30 days of receiving the Respondent's brief, the Reviewing Official may file with the Judicial Officer a response to the Respondent's specified exceptions to the Presiding Officer's initial decision.
(b)
Form of review.
(1) Review by the Judicial Officer will be based entirely on the record and written submissions.
(2) The Judicial Officer may affirm, reduce, reverse, or remand any penalty or assessment determined by the Presiding Officer.
(3) The Judicial Officer shall not consider any objection that was not raised in the hearing unless the interested party demonstrates that the failure to raise the objection before the Presiding Officer was caused by extraordinary circumstances.
(4) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Judicial Officer that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure
to present such evidence, the Judicial Officer shall remand the matter to the Presiding Officer for consideration of such additional evidence.
(c)
Decision of judicial officer.
(1) The Judicial Officer shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of his decision and a statement describing the right to judicial review under 31 U.S.C. 3805 of any Respondent determined to be liable under 31 U.S.C. 3802.
(2) The decision of the Judicial Officer constitutes final agency action and becomes final and binding on the parties 60 days after it is issued unless a petition for judicial review is filed.
[52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 962.22
Form and filing of documents.
(a) All pleadings and documents required under this part must be filed using the Judicial Officer electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. The Judicial Officer electronic filing system website is accessible 24 hours a day at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
. Every pleading filed in a proceeding under this part must:
(1) Contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the docket number (after assignment by the Recorder), and a designation of the document (e.g., “Motion to Quash Subpoena”);
(2) Contain the name, address, and telephone number of the party or other person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or the name, address and telephone number of the representative who prepared such paper; and
(3) Be signed by the party or other person submitting the document, or by such party's or person's representative.
(b) Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays.
(c) Pleadings or document transmittals to, or communications with, the Postal Service, other than to the Recorder under paragraph (b) of this section, shall be made through the Reviewing Official or designated Postal Service attorney. If a notice of appearance by a representative is filed on behalf of a Respondent, pleadings or document transmittals to, or communications with, the Respondent shall be made through his representative.
[52 FR 12904, Apr. 20, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998; 81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016; 89 FR 61021, July 30, 2024]
§ 962.23
Service.
If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
[81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016]
§ 962.24
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time provided for by this part, or any order issued pursuant to this part, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the applicable period of time is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government shall be excluded from the computation.
§ 962.25
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions may be granted under these rules for good cause shown.
§ 962.26
Settlement.
(a) Either party may make offers of settlement or proposals of adjustment at any time.
(b) The Reviewing Official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle any allegations or determinations of liability under 31 U.S.C. 3802 without the consent of the Presiding
Officer, except during the pendency of an appeal to the appropriate United States district court pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3805 or during the pendency of an action to collect any penalties or assessments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(c) The Attorney General has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle any penalty or assessment the determination of which is the subject of a pending petition for judicial review, or a pending action to recover such penalty or assessment.
(d) The Reviewing Official may recommend settlement terms to the Attorney General, as appropriate.
[59 FR 51860, Oct. 13, 1994]
§ 962.27
Limitations.
A hearing under this part concerning a claim or statement allegedly made, presented, or submitted in violation of 31 U.S.C. 3802 shall be commenced within six years after the date on which such claim or statement is made, presented, or submitted.
Pt. 963

# PART 963—PANDERING
Sec.
963.1
Authority for the rules.
963.2
Scope of the rules.
963.3
Petition; notice of hearing; answer; filing and copies of documents; summary judgment.
963.4
Presiding Officer.
963.5
Appearances.
963.6
Computation of time.
963.7
Location of hearing.
963.8
Change of place of hearing.
963.9
Election as to hearing.
963.10
Continuances and extensions.
963.11
Default.
963.12
Settlement agreements.
963.13
Subpoenas and witness fees not authorized.
963.14
Discovery.
963.15
Evidence.
963.16
Transcript.
963.17
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
963.18
Initial decision.
963.19
Appeal.
963.20
Final agency decision.
963.21
Official record.
963.22
Public information.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3008.

# Source:
52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 963.1
Authority for the rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the U.S. Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General (39 CFR 226.2(e)(1)).
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 10751, Mar. 8, 1994]
§ 963.2
Scope of the rules.
These rules of practice are applicable to cases in which the Prohibitory Order Processing Center Manager (hereinafter, “Manager”) has issued a complaint, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3008(d), alleging violation of a prohibitory order, and in which the alleged violator has petitioned for a hearing in the matter. As provided in 39 U.S.C. 3008(h), subchapter II of chapter 5 (relating to administrative procedure) and chapter 7 (relating to judicial review) of part I of title 5, U.S.C., do not apply to the hearings authorized by 39 U.S.C. 3008(d).
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 10751, Mar. 8, 1994, 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997]
§ 963.3
Petition; notice of hearing; answer; filing and copies of documents; summary judgment.
(a)
Petition.
Anyone against whom a complaint has been issued pursuant to 39 U.S.C 3008(d) may submit to the Manager a petition for hearing on the alleged violation. The petition must be in writing, signed by the petitioner or his or her attorney, and filed with the Manager on or before the 15th day after receipt of the complaint. The petition shall state the reasons why the petitioner believes the complaint to be erroneous. No petition received after the 15th day will be considered to have been filed on time, unless it was duly sent to the Manager via certified mail, deposited in the U.S. mail on or before the 15th day. The Manager will forward each timely petition to the Recorder through the Judicial Officer Department electronic filing system at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
.
(b)
Notice of hearing.
Upon receiving a petition, the Recorder shall schedule a hearing for a date not later than 30 days after the date of receipt, issue and send a notice of hearing to the parties, and send a copy of the petition to the
General Counsel of the U.S. Postal Service.
(c)
Answer.
The General Counsel shall file with the Recorder an answer to the petition within 15 days after the date of receiving a copy thereof. A certified copy of the material documents from the Manager's case file (
i.e.
, of the PS Forms 1500,
Application for Listing and/or Prohibitory Order,
2152,
Prohibitory Order,
and 2153,
Complaint,
underlying mail pieces, and pertinent return receipts) shall be appended to the answer.
(d)
Filing.
All documents required under this part must be filed using the electronic filing system (
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
) unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished. The Recorder shall maintain a docket and the files in all proceedings.
(e)
Summary Judgment.
Upon motion of either the General Counsel or the petitioner, or on his or her own initiative, the presiding officer may find that the petition and answer present no genuine and material issues of fact requiring an evidentiary hearing, and thereupon may render an initial decision upholding or dismissing the complaint. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision if a timely appeal is not taken.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987; 52 FR 20599, June 2, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 10752, Mar. 8, 1994; 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997; 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998; 81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016; 89 FR 61022, July 30, 2024]
§ 963.4
Presiding Officer.
(a) The presiding officer shall be an Administrative Law Judge or an Administrative Judge qualified in accordance with law. The Judicial Officer assigns cases under this part. Judicial Officer includes Associate Judicial Officer upon delegation thereto. The Judicial Officer may, on his or her own initiative or for good cause found, preside at the reception of evidence.
(b) The presiding officer has authority to:
(1) Take such action as may be necessary properly to preside over the proceeding and render decision therein;
(2) Render an initial decision, if the presiding officer is not the Judicial Officer, which becomes the final agency decision unless a timely appeal is taken; the Judicial Officer may issue a tentative or a final decision.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997]
§ 963.5
Appearances.
(a)
Petitioner.
A petitioner may appear and be heard in person or by attorney. An attorney may practice before the Postal Service in accordance with applicable rules issued by the Judicial Officer (see Part 951 of this chapter). When a petitioner is represented by an attorney, all pleadings and other papers to be served on petitioner after entry of the attorney's appearance shall be mailed to the attorney. A petitioner must promptly file notice of any change of attorney.
(b)
Postal Service.
The Postal Service will be represented by its General Counsel or any attorney designated by the General Counsel.
§ 963.6
Computation of time.
A designated period of time under these rules means calendar days, excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which case the period runs until the close of business on the next business day.
§ 963.7
Location of hearing.
Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-
3078, or other locations designated by the presiding officer.
[63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 963.8
Change of place of hearing.
Not later than the date fixed for the filing of the answer, a party may file a request that a hearing be held to receive evidence in his or her behalf at a place other than that designated for hearing in the notice. The party shall support his or her request with a statement outlining:
(a) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(b) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify;
(c) The reasons why such evidence cannot be produced at Arlington, VA.
The presiding officer shall consider the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevance of the evidence to be offered.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997; 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 963.9
Election as to hearing.
If both parties elect, an oral hearing may be waived and the matter submitted for decision on the basis of the petition and answer, and of any documentary evidence or briefs requested by the presiding officer. The written election to waive oral hearing must be received by the Recorder no later than 10 days prior to the scheduled hearing date.
§ 963.10
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions will be granted by the presiding officer for good cause shown.
§ 963.11
Default.
If a petitioner, without notice or cause satisfactory to the presiding officer, fails to appear at the hearing or comply with any of the provisions of these rules or an order issued by the presiding officer, the petitioner may be deemed to have abandoned his or her petition and to have acquiesced in the allegations of the complaint. The presiding officer thereupon may find the petitioner to be in default and refer the matter to the Judicial Officer for dismissal of the petition.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997]
§ 963.12
Settlement agreements.
These rules do not preclude the disposition of any matter by agreement between the parties at any stage of the proceeding.
§ 963.13
Subpoenas and witness fees not authorized.
The Postal Service is not authorized to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance or testimony of witnesses, nor to pay fees and expenses for a petitioner's witnesses or for depositions requested by a petitioner.
§ 963.14
Discovery.
Discovery is to be conducted on a voluntary basis to the extent possible. The presiding officer may, upon application of either party, order such discovery as he or she deems reasonable and necessary. Discovery may include one or more of the following: production of documents, requests for admissions, interrogatories, depositions, and witness lists. The presiding officer will establish the terms upon which requested discovery will be allowed.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 4459, Jan. 30, 1997]
§ 963.15
Evidence.
(a) In general, admissibility will hinge on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(b) Testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation and witnesses are subject to cross-examination.
(c) Agreed statements of fact are encouraged and may be received in evidence.
§ 963.16
Transcript.
Testimony and argument at hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the presiding officer otherwise orders. Transcripts or copies of the proceedings are supplied to the parties at
such rate as may be fixed by contract between the reporter and Postal Service. Any party desiring a copy of the transcript shall order it from the contract reporter in a timely manner to avoid delay in filing briefs.
§ 963.17
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(a) Each party who participates in the hearing may, unless the presiding officer orders otherwise, submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders, and supporting reasons, either in writing or orally at the discretion of the presiding officer. Unless given orally, the date set for filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders, and supporting reasons shall be within 15 days after the delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder, who shall notify both parties of the date of its receipt. The filing date for proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders, and supporting reasons shall be the same for both parties. If not submitted by such date, unless extension of time for the filing thereof is granted, they will not be included in the record or given consideration.
(b) Except when presented orally before the close of the hearing, proposed findings of fact shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs and shall state with particularity all evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits supporting the proposed findings. Each proposed conclusion shall be stated separately.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987; 52 FR 20599, June 2, 1987]
§ 963.18
Initial decision.
Unless given orally at the conclusion of the hearing, the presiding officer shall render an initial decision as expeditiously as practicable following the conclusion of the hearing and the receipt of the proposed findings and conclusions, if any. The initial decision becomes the final agency decision if a timely appeal is not taken.
§ 963.19
Appeal.
Either party may file exceptions in a brief on appeal to the Judicial Officer within 15 days after receipt of the initial or tentative decision unless additional time is granted. A reply brief may be filed within 15 days after the receipt of the appeal brief by the opposing party. The Judicial Officer has all powers of a presiding officer and is authorized to decide all issues de novo.
§ 963.20
Final agency decision.
The Judicial Officer, or by delegation the Associate Judicial Officer, renders the final agency decision which will be served upon the parties. If the decision is that the Postal Service's prohibitory order was violated, the Recorder shall provide a certified copy of the record to the General Counsel for use in seeking court enforcement of the order.
§ 963.21
Official record.
The transcript of testimony together with all pleadings, orders, exhibits, briefs, and other documents filed in the proceeding constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 963.22
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial, tentative, and final agency decisions and orders. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
[52 FR 18912, May 20, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998]
Pt. 964

# PART 964—WITHHELD MAIL
Sec.
964.1
Authority for rules.
964.2
Scope of rules.
964.3
Customer petitions; notice of hearing; answer; summary judgment.
964.4
Hearings.
964.5
Election as to hearing.
964.6
Default.
964.7
Presiding officers.
964.8
Subpoenas and witness fees not authorized.
964.9
Discovery; interrogatories; admission of facts; production; and inspection of documents.
964.10
Evidence.
964.11
Transcript.
964.12
Computation of time.
964.13
Continuances and extensions.
964.14
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
964.15
Decisions.
964.16
Appeal.
964.17
Final agency decision.
964.18
Compromise and informal disposition.
964.19
Orders.
964.20
Modification or revocation of orders.
964.21
Official record.
964.22
Public information.
964.23
Ex Parte communications.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 3003, 3004; 5 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 964.1
Authority for rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the United States Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General (39 CFR 224.1(c)(4)).
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 964.2
Scope of rules.
The rules in this part provide for administrative review of cases in which the Chief Postal Inspector or his delegate, acting pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3003(a), has withheld from delivery mail which he believes is involved in a scheme described in section 3003(a), and cases in which the Chief Postal Inspector or his delegate, acting pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3004, determines that letters or parcels sent in the mail are addressed to places not the residence or regular business address of the person for whom they are intended to enable the person to escape identification.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 62179, Oct. 4, 2002]
§ 964.3
Customer petitions; notice of hearing; answer; summary judgment.
(a)
Petition.
Any addressee who receives notice from the Chief Postal Inspector or his delegate that his mail has been withheld pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3003(a) or 3004 may oppose such action by filing with the Judicial Officer a written Petition stating the reasons for his or her opposition. The Petition, signed by the Petitioner or his or her attorney, shall be filed via the Judicial Officer Electronic filing system at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
or via certified mail to the Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The Petition must be filed within 14 days of the date upon which the Petitioner received the notice. The failure of an addressee who has received notice of withheld mail to file a Petition opposing such action with the Judicial Officer shall constitute a waiver of hearing and further procedural steps by the addressee. The Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee of the Postal Service shall thereupon file the matter with the Judicial Officer for issuance of a final order pursuant to § 964.19. Such referral shall contain a statement of the basis for the detention, evidence that the notice of the detention and the addressee's right to petition for review under this part were served on the addressee in person or by mailing a copy to the address to which the detained mail is directed, the date of such service, and a copy of the proposed order sought by the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee.
(b)
Notice of hearing.
On receipt of the Petition, the Recorder shall schedule a hearing on a date not later than 28 days after the date of receipt. A Notice of Hearing shall be sent to the Petitioner. A copy of the Notice of Hearing and the Petition shall be sent to the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee of the U.S. Postal Service.
(c)
Answer.
The Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee of the Postal Service shall file an Answer to the Petition within 10 days of receipt of the Petition from the Recorder.
(d)
Summary judgment.
Upon motion of either the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee or the Petitioner, or upon his own initiative, the presiding officer may find that the Petition and Answer present no material issues of fact requiring an evidentiary hearing and thereupon may render an initial decision granting or dismissing the Petition. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision if a timely appeal is not taken pursuant to § 964.16 of this part.
(e)
Filing and service.
All documents required under this part must be filed using the electronic filing system unless the presiding officer permits otherwise. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered
filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours. Normal business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday except holidays. If both parties are participating in the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4849, Feb. 18, 1988; 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998; 71 FR 53972, Sept. 13, 2006 ; 81 FR 40194, June 21, 2016; 89 FR 61022, July 30, 2024]
§ 964.4
Hearings.
Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, or other locations designated by the presiding officer. Not later than 10 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, a party may file a request that a hearing be held to receive evidence in his behalf at a place other than that designated for hearing in the notice. He shall support his request with a statement outlining:
(a) The evidence to be offered in such place;
(b) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify; and
(c) The reasons why such evidence cannot be produced at Arlington, VA.
The presiding officer shall give consideration to the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevance of the evidence to be offered
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 964.5
Election as to hearing.
If both parties elect, they may waive an oral hearing and submit the matter for decision on the basis of the Petition and Answer, subject to the authority of the presiding officer to require the parties to furnish such further evidence or such briefs as necessary. The request to waive oral hearing should be filed not later than 10 days prior to the date set for hearing.
§ 964.6
Default.
If a Petitioner fails to appear at the hearing without notice or without adequate cause the presiding officer may issue an order dismissing the Petition and refer the matter to the Judicial Officer for issuance of the order provided for under § 964.19. An order of dismissal issued under this section may be appealed to the Judicial Officer within 10 days from the date of the order.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4849, Feb. 18, 1988]
§ 964.7
Presiding officers.
(a) The presiding officer shall be an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law or the Judicial Officer. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign cases. The Judicial Officer may preside at the hearing if an Administrative Law Judge is unavailable.
(b) The presiding officer has authority to:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Examine witnesses;
(3) Rule upon offers of proof, admissibility of evidence and matters of procedure;
(4) Order any pleadings amended upon motion of a party at any time prior to the close of the hearing;
(5) Maintain discipline and decorum and exclude from the hearing any person acting in an indecorous manner;
(6) Require the filing of briefs or memoranda of law on any matter upon which he is required to rule;
(7) Order prehearing conferences for the purpose of the settlement or simplification of issues by the parties or for any other purpose he believes will facilitate the processing of the proceeding;
(8) Order the proceeding reopened at any time prior to his decision for the receipt of additional evidence;
(9) Render an initial decision, which becomes the final agency decision unless a timely appeal is taken: The Judicial Officer may issue a tentative or a final decision;
(10) Rule upon applications and requests filed under § 964.9 of this part.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 81 FR 40195, June 21, 2016]
§ 964.8
Subpoenas and witness fees not authorized.
The Postal Service is not authorized to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance or testimony of witnesses, nor to pay fees and expenses for a Petitioner's witnesses or for depositions requested by a Petitioner.
§ 964.9
Discovery; interrogatories; admission of facts; production and inspection of documents.
(a)
General policy and protective orders.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures. In connection with any discovery procedure permitted under this part, the presiding officer may issue any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. Such orders may include limitations on the scope, method, time and place for discovery, and provisions for protecting confidential information or documents from unwarranted public disclosure. Each party shall bear its own expenses relating to discovery.
(b)
Depositions.
(1) After the issuance of a notice of hearing described in § 964.3 of this part, the parties may mutually agree to, or the presiding officer may, upon application of either party and for good cause shown, order the taking of testimony of any person by deposition upon oral examination or written interrogatories before any officer authorized to administer oaths at the place of examination, for use as evidence or for purposes of discovery. The application for order shall specify whether the purpose of the deposition is discovery or for use as evidence, or both.
(2) The time, place, and manner of taking depositions shall be as mutually agreed by the parties, or failing such agreement, governed by order of the presiding officer.
(3) No testimony taken by depositions shall be considered as part of the evidence in the hearing unless and until such testimony is offered and received in evidence at such hearing. Depositions will not ordinarily be received in evidence if the deponent is present and can testify personally at the hearing. In such instances, however, the deposition may be used to contradict or impeach the testimony of the witness given at the hearing. In cases submitted on the record, the presiding officer may, in his discretion, receive depositions as evidence in supplementation of the record.
(c)
Interrogatories to parties.
Not later than 5 days after the filing of the Answer described in § 964.3, a party may serve on the other party written interrogatories to be answered separately in writing, signed under oath and returned within 10 days. Upon timely objection by the party, the presiding officer will determine the extent to which the interrogatories will be permitted.
(d)
Admission of facts.
Not later than 5 days after the filing of the Answer described in § 964.3, a party may serve upon the other party a request for the admission of specified facts. Within 10 days after receipt of the request for admissions, the party served shall admit or answer each specified fact or file objections thereto. Any factual propositions set out in the request to which a party fails to respond shall be deemed admitted.
(e)
Production and inspection of documents.
Upon motion of any party showing good cause therefor, and upon notice, the presiding officer may order the other party to produce and permit the inspection and copying or photographing of any designated documents and or objects, provided that such documents and objects are not privileged, their relevance to the cause or causes in issue is explained, and they are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. If the parties cannot themselves agree thereon, the presiding officer shall specify the terms and conditions for making the inspection and taking the copies and photographs.
§ 964.10
Evidence.
(a) In general, admissibility will hinge on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(b) Testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation and witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination.
(c) Agreed statements of fact are encouraged and may be received in evidence.
§ 964.11
Transcript.
Testimony and argument at hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the presiding officer orders otherwise. Transcripts or copies of the proceedings are supplied to the parties at such rate as may be fixed by contract between the reporter and Postal Service. Any party desiring a copy of the transcript shall order it from the contract reporter in a timely manner to avoid delay in filing briefs.
§ 964.12
Computation of time.
A designated period of time under these rules means calendar days, excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which case the period runs until the close of business on the next business day.
§ 964.13
Continuances and extensions.
Continuances and extensions will be granted by the presiding officer for good cause shown.
§ 964.14
Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(a) Each party to a proceeding, except one who fails to answer the Petition or, having answered, either fails to appear at the hearing or indicates in the answer that he does not desire to appear, may, unless at the discretion of the presiding officer such is not appropriate, submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons either in oral or written form in the discretion of the presiding officer. The presiding officer may also require parties to submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders, and supporting reasons. Unless given orally, the date set for filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons shall be within 15 days after the delivery of the official transcript to the Recorder who shall notify both parties of the date of its receipt. The filing date for proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, orders and supporting reasons shall be the same for both parties. If not submitted by such date, unless extension of time for the filing thereof is granted, they will not be included in the record or given consideration.
(b) Except when presented orally before the close of the hearing, proposed findings of fact shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs and shall state with particularity all evidentiary facts in the record with appropriate citations to the transcript or exhibits supporting the proposed finding. Each proposed conclusion shall be separately stated.
§ 964.15
Decisions.
(a)
Initial decision by Administrative Law Judge.
A written initial decision shall be rendered by an Administrative Law Judge with all due speed. The initial decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented in the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision unless an appeal is taken in accordance with § 964.16.
(b)
Tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer.
When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing he shall issue a final or a tentative decision. Such decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented in the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The tentative decision shall become the final agency decision unless exceptions are filed in accordance with § 964.16.
§ 964.16
Appeal.
(a) Either party may file exceptions in a brief on appeal to the Judicial Officer within 15 days after receipt of the initial or tentative decision unless additional time is granted. A reply brief may be filed within 15 days after receipt of the appeal brief by the opposing party. The Judicial Officer has all powers of a presiding officer and is authorized to decide all issues
de novo.
(b) Briefs upon appeal or in support of exceptions to a tentative decision by
the Judicial Officer and replies thereto shall be filed in triplicate with the Recorder and contain the following matter in the order indicated:
(1) A subject index of the matters presented, with page references; a table of cases alphabetically arranged; a list of statutes and texts cited with page references.
(2) A concise abstract or statement of the case in briefs on appeal or in support of exceptions.
(3) Numbered exceptions to specific findings and conclusions of fact, conclusions of law, or recommended orders of the presiding officer in briefs on appeal or in support of exceptions.
(4) A concise argument clearly setting forth points of fact and of law relied upon in support of or in opposition to each exception taken, together with specific references to the parts of the record and the legal or other authorities relied upon.
§ 964.17
Final agency decision.
The Judicial Officer renders the final agency decision and order which will be served upon the parties and upon the postmaster at the office where the mail at issue is being held.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4849, Feb. 18, 1988]
§ 964.18
Compromise and informal disposition.
Nothing in these rules precludes the compromise, settlement, and informal disposition of proceedings initiated under these rules at any time prior to the issuance of the final agency decision.
§ 964.19
Orders.
If an order is issued by the Judicial Officer which prohibits delivery of mail to a Petitioner it shall be incorporated in the record of the proceeding. The Recorder shall cause notice of the order to be published in the
Postal Bulletin
and cause the order to be transmitted to such postmasters and other officers and employees of the Postal Service as may be required to place the order into effect.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4849, Feb. 18, 1988]
§ 964.20
Modification or revocation of orders.
A party against whom an order or orders have been issued may file an application for modification or revocation thereof. The Recorder shall transmit a copy of the application to the Chief Postal Inspector or his or her designee, who shall file a written reply within 10 days after receipt or such other period as the Judicial Officer may fix. A copy of the reply shall be sent to the applicant by the Recorder. Thereafter an order granting or denying such application will be issued by the Judicial Officer.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 71 FR 53972, Sept. 13, 2006]
§ 964.21
Official record.
The transcript of testimony together with all pleadings, orders, exhibits, briefs, and other documents filed in the proceeding constitute the official record of the proceeding.
§ 964.22
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial, tentative, and final agency decisions and orders. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
[52 FR 36763, Oct. 1, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998]
§ 964.23
Ex parte communications.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d), and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice.
Pt. 965

# PART 965—MAIL DISPUTES
Sec.
965.1
Authority for rules.
965.2
Scope of rules.
965.3
Notice to parties.
965.4
Presiding officers.
965.5
Initial submissions by parties.
965.6
Comments by parties.
965.7
Default.
965.8
Hearings.
965.9
Evidence.
965.10
Transcript.
965.11
Initial decision.
965.12
Appeal.
965.13
Compromise and informal disposition.
965.14
Public information.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 204, 401.

# Source:
52 FR 29012, Aug. 5, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.1
Authority for rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer of the U.S. Postal Service pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.2
Scope of rules.
The rules in this part shall be applicable to mail dispute cases forwarded to the Judicial Officer pursuant to Postal Operations Manual section 616.21.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.3
Notice to parties.
Upon receipt of a mail dispute case, the Recorder, Office of the Judicial Officer, United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078, will send a notice of docketing and submission due date to the parties together with a copy of these rules.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.4
Presiding officers.
(a) The presiding officer shall be an Administrative Law Judge, an Administrative Judge qualified in accordance with law, or any other qualified person licensed to practice law designated by the Judicial Officer to preside over a proceeding conducted pursuant to this part. The Judicial Officer assigns cases under this part. Judicial Officer includes Associate Judicial Officer upon delegation thereto. The Judicial Officer may, on his or her own initiative or for good cause found, preside at the reception of evidence.
(b) The presiding officer has authority to:
(1) Take such action as may be necessary to preside properly over the proceeding and render decision therein;
(2) Render an initial decision, if the presiding officer is not the Judicial Officer; or if the presiding officer is the Judicial Officer, issue a tentative or a final decision or order.
[52 FR 29012, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 75 FR 6570, Feb. 10, 2010; 76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.5
Initial submissions by parties.
Within 15 days after receipt of the Recorder's notice, each party shall file via the Judicial Officer electronic filing system (
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
) a sworn statement of the facts supporting its claim to receipt of the mail together with a copy of each document on which it relies in making such claim, and any arguments supporting its claim. Unless the presiding officer otherwise permits, all documents relative to this proceeding must be filed using the electronic filing system.
[81 FR 40195, June 21, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 61022, July 30, 2024]
§ 965.6
Comments by parties.
Within 10 days of receipt of the other party's initial submission under § 965.5, each party may file with the Recorder an additional statement or rebuttal argument setting forth in detail its disagreements, if any, with its opponent's initial submission. Such rebuttal may include any additional documents relevant to the dispute.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.7
Default.
A party who fails to file the submittal required by § 965.5 may be held in default and the presiding officer may issue an initial decision that mail be delivered to the other party.
§ 965.8
Hearings.
(a) Generally, mail dispute cases are resolved based on written submissions. However, in the discretion of the presiding officer an oral hearing may be conducted where in the opinion of the presiding officer, the case cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence.
(b) Hearings are held at 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA
22201-3078, or such other place as may be designated by the presiding officer.
[52 FR 29012, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 63 FR 66053, Dec. 1, 1998; 76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.9
Evidence.
(a) In general, admissibility will hinge on relevancy and materiality. However, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(b) Testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation and witnesses are subject to cross-examination.
[52 FR 29012, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.10
Transcript.
Testimony and argument at hearings shall be reported verbatim, unless the presiding officer otherwise orders. Transcripts or copies of the proceedings are supplied to the parties at such rate as may be fixed by contract between the reporter and Postal Service.
§ 965.11
Initial decision.
The presiding officer shall render an initial decision in writing, based on the record, as expeditiously as possible, but to the extent practicable within 10 working days of closing of the record. The decision will be brief, containing summary findings of fact, conclusions of law, and reasons therefor. If there has been a hearing the presiding officer may in his discretion render an oral decision. A typed copy of such oral decision will subsequently be furnished to the parties to establish the date for commencement of time for requesting review of the initial decision.
§ 965.12
Appeal.
Within 10 days after receipt by the parties of the initial or tentative decision, either party may file an appeal to the Judicial Officer. The Judicial Officer, or by delegation the Associate Judicial Officer, in his or her sole discretion, also may review the initial or tentative decision on his or her own initiative. If an appeal is denied, the initial or tentative decision becomes the final agency decision upon the issuance of such denial. If an appeal is not filed and the Judicial Officer, or by delegation the Associate Judicial Officer does not review the initial or tentative decision on his or her own initiative, a final order will be issued. The Judicial Officer's decision on appeal or his or her final order is the final agency decision with no further agency review or appeal rights.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
§ 965.13
Compromise and informal disposition.
Nothing in these rules precludes the compromise, settlement, and informal disposition of proceedings initiated under these rules at any time prior to the issuance of the final agency decision.
§ 965.14
Public information.
The Librarian of the Postal Service maintains for public inspection in the Library copies of all initial, tentative, and final agency decisions and orders. Copies of decisions also are available on the Judicial Officer's section of the official Web site of the U.S. Postal Service. The Recorder maintains the complete official record of every proceeding.
[76 FR 15219, Mar. 21, 2011]
Pt. 966

# PART 966—ADMINISTRATIVE OFFSETS INITIATED AGAINST FORMER POSTAL SERVICE EMPLOYEES
Sec.
966.1
Authority for rules.
966.2
Scope of rules.
966.3
Definitions.
966.4
Petition for a hearing and supplement to petition.
966.5
Effect of petition filing.
966.6
Filing, docketing and serving documents; computation of time; representation of parties.
966.7
Answer to petition.
966.8
Authority and responsibilities of Hearing Official or Judicial Officer.
966.9
Opportunity for oral hearing.
966.10
Initial decision.
966.11
Appeal.
966.12
Waiver of rights.
966.13
Ex parte communications.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3716; 39 U.S.C. 204, 401, 2601.

# Source:
62 FR 63279, Nov. 28, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 966.1
Authority for rules.
These rules of practice are issued by the Judicial Officer pursuant to authority delegated by the Postmaster General.
§ 966.2
Scope of rules.
(a) The rules in this part apply to any petition filed by a former postal employee:
(1) To challenge the Postal Service's determination that he or she is liable to the Postal Service for a debt incurred in connection with his or her Postal Service employment, that the Postal Service intends to collect by administrative offset pursuant to the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and in accordance with the regulations contained in the Employee and Labor Relations Manual, sections 470 and 480; and/or
(2) To challenge the administrative offset schedule proposed by the Postal Service for collecting any such debt.
(b) The regulations in this part are consistent with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards pertaining to administrative offset.
[77 FR 65104, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.3
Definitions.
(a)
Accounting Service Center
refers to the United States Postal Service Eagan Accounting Service Center or its successor installation.
(b)
Administrative offset
refers to the withholding of money payable by the Postal Service or the United States to, or held by the Postal Service or the United States for, a former employee in order to satisfy a debt determined to be owed by the former employee to the Postal Service.
(c)
Debt
refers to any amount determined by the Postal Service to be owed to the Postal Service by a former employee.
(d)
Federal Claims Collection Standards or FCCS
refers to regulations promulgated by the Department of Justice and the Department of the Treasury and codified at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
(e)
Former employee
refers to an individual whose employment with the Postal Service has ceased. An employee is considered formally separated from the Postal Service rolls as of close of business on the effective date of his or her separation.
(f)
General Counsel
refers to the General Counsel of the Postal Service, and includes a designated representative.
(g)
Hearing Official
refers to an Administrative Law Judge qualified to hear cases under the Administrative Procedure Act, an Administrative Judge appointed under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, or any other qualified person licensed to practice law designated by the Judicial Officer to preside over a hearing conducted pursuant to this part.
(h)
Judicial Officer
refers to the Judicial Officer, Associate Judicial Officer, or Acting Judicial Officer of the Postal Service.
(i)
Reconsideration
refers to the review of an alleged debt and/or the proposed offset schedule conducted by the Accounting Service Center at the request of a former employee alleged to be indebted to the Postal Service.
(j)
Recorder
refers to the Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078. The recorder's telephone number is (703) 812-1900, and the Judicial Officer's website is
https://about.usps.com/who/judicial/.
The fax number is (703) 812-1901.
[77 FR 65104, Oct. 25, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 61022, July 30, 2024; 89 FR 66599, Aug. 16, 2024]
§ 966.4
Petition for a hearing and supplement to petition.
(a) A former employee who is alleged to be responsible for a debt to the Postal Service may petition for a hearing under this part, provided:
(1) Liability for the debt and/or the proposed offset schedule has not been established under part 452.3 or part 462.3 of the Employee
Labor Relations Manual (ELM);
(2) The former employee has received a Notice from the Accounting Service Center in compliance with section 472.1 of the ELM and the administrative offset provisions of the FCCS, informing the former employee of the debt and an offset schedule to satisfy the debt, the former employee's rights under 31
U.S.C. 3716(a), the right to request reconsideration of the debt and/or offset schedule from the Accounting Service Center, and the right to request review under this part; and
(3) The former employee has requested reconsideration of the Postal Service's determination of the existence or amount of the alleged debt and/or the offset schedule proposed by the Postal Service within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the notice referenced in paragraph (a)(2), and either has received a reconsideration determination, or within sixty (60) calendar days from the reconsideration request has not received a reconsideration determination.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this part, the Postal Service may omit the procedures for notice and reconsideration in this part under certain circumstances as set forth below:
(1) If the Postal Service first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the former employee when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the former employee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review under this part. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, the Postal Service will give the former employee notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and will promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed. In such circumstances whereby prior notice and an opportunity for pre-deprivation review are omitted, the former employee may submit a petition for review under this part.
(2) If an agency (including the Postal Service) has already given the former employee any of the required notice and review opportunities set forth in the FCCS with respect to a particular debt. In such a situation, the Postal Service need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before taking an administrative offset.
(3) If a former bargaining unit employee of the Postal Service pursues, in accordance with the applicable provisions of his or her CBA, a grievance concerning the Postal Service's claim, including, but not limited to, the existence of a debt owed to the Postal Service, the amount of such debt, and/or the proposed repayment schedule, and none of the circumstances set forth in ELM section 483.1 apply;
(4) If otherwise allowed by law, including, but not limited to, the administrative offset provisions of the FCCS.
(c) Within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of receipt of the Accounting Service Center's decision upon reconsideration, after the expiration of sixty (60) calendar days after a request for reconsideration where a reconsideration determination is not made, or following an administrative offset taken without prior notice and opportunity for reconsideration pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the former employee must file a written petition electronically at
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com,
or by mail at Recorder, Judicial Officer Department, United States Postal Service, 2101 Wilson Blvd., Suite 600, Arlington, VA 22201-3078.
(d) A sample petition is available through the Judicial Officer Electronic Filing website (
https://usps-judicialoffice.journaltech.com
). The petition must include the following:
(1) The words, “Petition for Review Under 39 CFR Part 966”;
(2) The former employee's name;
(3) The former employee's home address, email address (if available), and telephone number, and any other address and telephone number at which the former employee may be contacted about these proceedings;
(4) A statement of the date the former employee received the Accounting Service Center's decision upon reconsideration of the alleged debt and a copy of the decision;
(5) A statement of the grounds upon which the former employee objects to the Postal Service's determination of the debt or to the administrative offset schedule proposed by the Postal Service for collecting any such debt. This statement should identify with reasonable specificity and brevity the facts, evidence, and legal arguments, if any, which support the former employee's position; and
(6) Copies of all records in the former employee's possession which relate to the debt and which the former employee may enter into the record of the hearing.
(e) The former employee may, if necessary, file with the Recorder additional information as a supplement to the petition at any time prior to the filing of the answer to the petition under § 966.7, or at such later time as permitted by the Hearing Official upon a showing of good cause.
[77 FR 65105, Oct. 25, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 54723, Sept. 11, 2015; 89 FR 61022, July 30, 2024]
§ 966.5
Effect of petition filing.
Upon receipt and docketing of the former employee's petition, the Recorder will notify the General Counsel that the petition has been filed and that a timely filed petition stays further collection action.
§ 966.6
Filing, docketing and serving documents; computation of time; representation of parties.
(a)
Filing.
After a petition is filed, all documents required under this part must be filed using the electronic filing system unless the Hearing Official permits otherwise. Documents submitted using the electronic filing system are considered filed as of the date/time (Eastern Time) reflected in the system. Documents mailed to the Recorder are considered filed on the date mailed as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark. Filings by any other means are considered filed upon receipt by the Recorder of a complete copy of the filing during normal business hours (Normal Recorder office business hours are between 8:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m., Eastern Time). If both parties are participating via the electronic filing system, separate service upon the opposing party is not required. Otherwise, documents shall be served personally or by mail on the opposing party, noting on the document filed, or on the transmitting letter, that a copy has been so furnished.
(b)
Docketing.
The Recorder will maintain a docket record of proceedings under this part and will assign each petition a docket number. After notification of the docket number, the former employee and General Counsel should refer to it on any further filings regarding the petition.
(c)
Time computation.
A filing period under the rules in this part excludes the day the period begins, and includes the last day of the period unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the close of business on the next business day. Requests for extensions of time shall be made in writing stating good cause therefor, shall represent that the moving party has contacted the opposing party about the request, or made reasonable efforts to do so, and shall indicate whether the opposing party consents to the extension.
(d)
Representation of parties.
After the filing of the petition, further document transmittals for, or communications with, the Postal Service shall be through its representative, the General Counsel, or designee. The representative of the Postal Service, as designated by the General Counsel, shall file a notice of appearance as soon as practicable, and no later than the date for filing the answer. If a former employee has a representative, further transmissions of documents and other communications by and with the former employee shall be made through his or her representative rather than directly with the former employee.
[77 FR 65105, Oct. 25, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 54723, Sept. 11, 2015]
§ 966.7
Answer to petition.
Within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the petition, the General Counsel shall file an answer to the petition, and attach all available relevant records and documents in support of the Postal Service's claim, or the administrative offset schedule proposed by the Postal Service for collecting any such claim. The answer shall provide a clear and detailed description of the basis for the Postal Service's determination of the alleged debt and its calculation of the amount of the alleged debt and/or its proposed offset schedule, as appropriate.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.8
Authority and responsibilities of Hearing Official or Judicial Officer.
(a) In processing a case under this part, the Hearing Official's authority
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Ruling on all offers, motions, or requests by the parties;
(2) Issuing any notices, orders, or memoranda to the parties concerning the hearing procedures;
(3) Conducting telephone conferences with the parties to expedite the proceedings (a memorandum of a telephone conference will be transmitted to both parties). The Hearing Official's Memorandum of Telephone Conference serves as the official record of that conference;
(4) Determining if an oral hearing is necessary, the type of oral hearing that would be appropriate, and setting the place, date, and time for such hearing;
(5) Administering oaths or affirmations to witnesses;
(6) Conducting the hearing in a manner to maintain discipline and decorum while assuring that relevant, reliable, and probative evidence is elicited on the disputed issues, and that irrelevant, immaterial, or repetitious evidence is excluded. The Hearing Official in his or her discretion may examine witnesses to ensure that a satisfactory record is developed;
(7) Establishing the record in the case. Except as the Hearing Official may otherwise order in his or her discretion, no proof shall be received in evidence after completion of an oral hearing or, in cases submitted on the written record, after notification by the Hearing Official that the case is ready for decision. The weight to be attached to any evidence of record will rest within the sound discretion of the Hearing Official. The Hearing Official may require either party, with appropriate notice to the other party, to submit additional evidence on any relevant matter;
(8) Issuing an initial decision or one on remand; and
(9) Granting reasonable time extensions or other relief for good cause shown.
(b) The Judicial Officer, in addition to possessing such authority as is described elsewhere in this part, shall possess all of the authority and responsibilities of a Hearing Official.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.9
Opportunity for oral hearing.
An oral hearing shall be held in the sole discretion of the Hearing Official. An oral hearing includes an in-person hearing, a telephonic hearing, or a hearing by video conference. When the Hearing Official determines that an oral hearing shall not be conducted, the decision shall be based solely on written submissions. The Hearing Official shall arrange for the recording and transcription of an oral hearing, which shall serve as the official record of the hearing. The unexcused absence of a party at the time and place set for hearing may not be occasion for delay at the discretion of the Hearing Official. In the event of such absence, the hearing may proceed without the participation of the absent party.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.10
Initial decision.
(a) After the receipt of written submissions or after the conclusion of the hearing and the receipt of any post-hearing briefs, the Hearing Official shall issue a written initial decision, including findings of fact and conclusions of law, which the Hearing Official relied upon in determining whether the former employee is indebted to the Postal Service, or in upholding or revising the administrative offset schedule proposed by the Postal Service for collecting a former employee's debt. When the Judicial Officer presides at a hearing he or she shall issue a final or a tentative decision.
(b) The Hearing Official shall promptly send to each party a copy of the initial or tentative decision, and a statement describing the right of appeal to the Judicial Officer in accordance with § 966.11.
§ 966.11
Appeal.
The initial or tentative decision will become the final agency decision thirty (30) days after its issuance unless, before the expiration of that time, a party files an appeal with the Judicial Officer, or the Judicial Officer, in his or her sole discretion, elects to conduct a review of the decision on his or her own initiative. During such review or appeal consideration, the Judicial Officer will accept all findings of fact in
the original decision unless clearly erroneous. If following appeal or review, the Judicial Officer affirms the original decision, that decision becomes the final agency decision with no further right of appeal within the agency.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.12
Waiver of rights.
(a) The Hearing Official may determine that the former employee has waived the right to a hearing, and that administrative offset may be initiated if the former employee files a petition for hearing after the period prescribed in these Rules and fails to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Hearing Official good cause for the delay; or has filed a withdrawal of the former employee's previous petition for a hearing.
(b) The Hearing Official may determine that the Postal Service has waived the alleged debt at issue, and that the administrative offset may not be initiated if the Postal Service fails to file the answer within the period prescribed by the Rules and fails to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Hearing Official good cause for the delay; or has filed a withdrawal of the debt determination at issue.
(c) In addition, whenever a record discloses the failure of either party to file documents required by these rules, respond to notices or correspondence from the Hearing Official, comply with orders of the Hearing Official, participate in conferences, fail to treat the proceedings with the proper decorum, or otherwise indicate an intention not to continue the prosecution or defense of a petition, the Hearing Official may issue an order requiring the offending party to show cause why the petition should not be dismissed or granted, as appropriate. If the offending party shall fail to show cause, the Hearing Official may take such action as he or she deems reasonable and proper under the circumstances, including dismissal or granting of the petition as appropriate.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
§ 966.13
Ex parte communications.
Ex parte communications are not allowed between a party and the Hearing Official or the Official's staff. For these purposes, ex parte communication means an oral or written communication, not on the public record, with one party only with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, but it shall not include requests for status reports or procedural matters. A memorandum of any communication between the Hearing Official and a party will be transmitted to both parties.
[77 FR 65106, Oct. 25, 2012]
PARTS 967-999 [RESERVED]
39 CFR Ch. III (7-1-25 Edition)
Postal Regulatory Commission

# CHAPTER III—POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION

# SUBCHAPTER A—THE COMMISSION
Part
Page
3000
The Commission and its offices
357
3001
Employee standards of conduct
361

# SUBCHAPTER B—SEEKING INFORMATION FROM THE COMMISSION
3005
Privacy Act rules
364
3006
Public records and Freedom of Information Act
365
3007
Commission meetings
376

# SUBCHAPTER C—GENERAL RULES OF PRACTICE FOR PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSION
3010
Rules of practice and procedure
381
3011
Non-public materials provided to the Commission
417
3012
Ex parte communications
429
3013
Procedures for compelling production of information by the Postal Service
432

# SUBCHAPTER D—SPECIAL RULES OF PRACTICE FOR SPECIFIC PROCEEDING TYPES
3020
Rules applicable to postal service requests for changes in the nature of postal services
440
3021
Rules for appeals of Postal Service determinations to close or consolidate post offices
449
3022
Rules for complaints
452
3023
Rules for rate or service inquiries
455
3024
Special rules for complaints alleging violations of 39 U.S.C. 404a
456
3025
Procedures related to Commission views submitted to the Secretary of State
457

# SUBCHAPTER E—REGULATIONS GOVERNING MARKET DOMINANT PRODUCTS, COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS, PRODUCT LISTS, AND MARKET TESTS
3030
Regulation of rates for market dominant products
459
3035
Regulation of rates for competitive products
481
3040
Product lists and the mail classification schedule
482
3041
Competitive negotiated service agreements
504
3045
Rules for market tests of experimental products
515

# SUBCHAPTER F—PERIODIC REPORTING, ACCOUNTING PRACTICES, AND TAX RULES
3050
Periodic reporting
521
3055
Service performance and customer satisfaction reporting
536
3060
Accounting practices and tax rules for the theoretical competitive products enterprise
548
3065
Rules for letters carried out of the mail
553
3066-3099
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—THE COMMISSION
Pt. 3000

# PART 3000—THE COMMISSION AND ITS OFFICES
Sec.
3000.101
Purpose.
3000.102
Statutory functions.
3000.103
Official seal.
3000.104-3000.109
[Reserved]
3000.110
The Commission and its offices.
3000.111
Office of Secretary and Administration.
3000.112
Office of Accountability and Compliance.
3000.113
Office of the General Counsel.
3000.114
The Public Representative.
3000.115
Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations.
3000.116
Office of Inspector General.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.
§ 3000.101
Purpose.
This part is published in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and constitutes a general description of the Postal Regulatory Commission.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.102
Statutory functions.
(a)
Areas of jurisdiction.
The Commission develops and maintains regulations for a modern system of rate regulation, including maintaining the market dominant and competitive product lists in the Mail Classification Schedule and ensuring that rates meet the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3622 and 3633. The Commission consults with the Postal Service on delivery service standards and performance measures and with the Department of State on international postal policies. The Commission adjudicates rate and service complaints filed pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3662 and offers advisory opinions on proposed changes to postal services pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3661. Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3651, the Commission provides an annual report to the President and Congress, and pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3653, the Commission issues an annual compliance determination to assess whether the Postal Service's rates, fees, and services comport with the requirements of title 39. Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 404(d)(5), the Commission acts on postal patrons' appeals concerning Postal Service decisions to close or consolidate post offices.
(b)
Public participation.
Interested persons may participate in proceedings before the Commission as described in part 3010, subpart C of this chapter. Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3662(a) and part 3022 of this chapter, any interested person may lodge rate and service complaints with the Commission. Persons served by a post office that the Postal Service decides to close or consolidate may appeal such determinations in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 404(d) and part 3021 of this chapter.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.103
Official seal.
(a)
Authority.
The Seal described in this section is hereby established as the official seal of the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(b)
Description.
(1) On a gold color (yellow) pentagon device, the base-line formed as a “V,” edged with a black border, a black triangle point down and between the inscription at top “Postal Regulatory Commission” in white letters and in base at the point of the triangle three Celeste mullets two, two and one, the American Eagle with branch and arrows derived from the Great Seal of the United States charged on the breast with the Commission's earlier round seal inscribed “Postal Regulatory Commission” and the date “2006”, all in gold (yellow).
(2) The official seal of the Postal Regulatory Commission is modified when reproduced in black and white and when embossed, as it appears in this section.
ER09MY13.003
(c)
Custody and authorization to affix.
(1) The seal is the official emblem of the Postal Regulatory Commission and its use is permitted only as provided in this part.
(2) The seal shall be kept in the custody of the Secretary and is to be used to authenticate records of the Postal Regulatory Commission and for other official purposes.
(3) Use by any person or organization outside of the Commission may be made only with the Commission's prior written approval. Such request must be made in writing to the Secretary.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§§ 3000.104-3000.109
[Reserved]
§ 3000.110
The Commission and its offices.
(a)
The Commissioners.
The Postal Regulatory Commission is an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government created by the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act (39 U.S.C. 501).
(b)
The Chairman and Vice Chairman.
The Chairman has the administrative responsibility for assigning the business of the Commission to the other Commissioners and to the offices and employees of the Commission. The Chairman has the administrative duty to preside at the meetings and sessions of the Commission and to represent the Commission in matters specified by statute or executive order or as the Commission directs. The Commission shall elect annually a member of the Commission to serve as Vice Chairman of the Commission for a term of one year or until a successor is elected. In case of a vacancy in the Office of the Chairman of the Commission, or in the absence or inability of the Chairman to serve, the Vice Chairman, unless otherwise directed by the Chairman, shall have the administrative responsibilities and duties of the Chairman during the period of vacancy, absence, or inability.
(c)
Commission offices.
The Commission's offices are located at 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001. On these premises, the Commission maintains offices for Commissioners and staff; a docket room where documents may be filed with the Commission pursuant to part
3010, subpart B of this chapter and examined by interested persons, a public reading room where the Commission's public records are available for inspection and copying; and a hearing room where formal evidentiary proceedings are held on matters before the Commission. The Commission also maintains an electronic reading room accessible through the internet, on its website at
http://www.prc.gov.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.111
Office of Secretary and Administration.
(a) The incumbent head of the office utilizes the title of “Secretary”.
(b) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's budget and accounting. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration develops, implements, and administers the Commission's financial management system and accounting activities including those relating to the budget and the payroll; is responsible for the Commission's strategic planning; and serves as the point of contact for all Commission contracts and audits.
(c) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's human resources and personnel. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for Commission employee hiring, training, travel, personnel policy and compliance, and human capital planning. In addition, the Office of Secretary and Administration serves as an Equal Employment Opportunity Officer for the Commission and manages the Commission's continuity of operations planning.
(d) The Office of Secretary and Administration manages the Commission's records, including the Commission's seal, administrative policies, orders, reports, and official correspondence. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration manages the Commission's dockets and docket room, website, reference materials, and inter-agency reporting. All orders and other actions of the Commission shall be authenticated or signed by the Secretary or any such other person as may be authorized by the Commission.
(e) The Office of Secretary and Administration is responsible for the Commission's facilities and infrastructure. In this role, the Office of Secretary and Administration manages facility security; provides information technology and other support services essential to the efficient and effective conduct of operations; acquires and assigns office space; and manages procurement and supply.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 53056, Oct. 4, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.112
Office of Accountability and Compliance.
(a) The Office of Accountability and Compliance is responsible for technical analysis and the formulation of policy recommendations for the Commission in both domestic and international matters, including those governed by the Universal Postal Union.
(b) The Office of Accountability and Compliance provides the analytic support to the Commission for the review of rate changes, negotiated service agreements, classification of products, the Annual Compliance Determination, the Annual Report, changes to postal services, post office closings and other issues which come before the Commission. The functional areas of expertise within this office are:
(1) The economic analysis of the market for postal services including the alternative sources for such services and the users of the service;
(2) The analysis of the operational characteristics of the postal system and its interface with various segments of the economy; and
(3) The analysis of the costs of operating the Postal Service and how such costs are influenced by operational characteristics, changes in volume, and changes in other relevant factors.
(c) These functional activities are combined in the evaluation of the Postal Service's proposed rates, proposed service changes, proposed changes to the Mail Classification Schedule, and product list designations, as well as formal complaints, the Annual Compliance Determination, and all other proceedings, reports, and filings before the Commission requiring such analysis.
(d) The Office of Accountability and Compliance also collects, analyzes, and periodically summarizes financial and various other statistical information for use in its ongoing activities and for the development of future methods, techniques, and systems of analysis and reporting.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.113
Office of the General Counsel.
(a) The General Counsel directs and coordinates the functions of the Office of the General Counsel. The General Counsel does not appear as an attorney in any proceeding before the Commission and takes no part in the preparation of evidence or argument presented in such hearings.
(b) The Office of the General Counsel provides legal assistance on matters involving the Commission's responsibilities; defends Commission decisions before the courts; and advises the Commission on the legal aspects of proposed legislation, rulemaking, requests made under the Freedom of Information Act, and policies on procurement, contracting, personnel matters, ethics, and other internal legal matters.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 53056, Oct. 4, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.114
The Public Representative.
(a) Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 505, the Commission appoints a staff member, on a case-by-case basis, to serve as a representative of the general public's interests in public proceedings before the Commission; pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3653, 39 U.S.C. 3661, and 39 U.S.C. 3662, and 39 U.S.C. 3705, the Commission also appoints a staff member, on a case-by-case basis, to serve as a representative of the general public's interests in certain proceedings; and, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 504(a), the Chairman may appoint a staff member, on a case-by-case basis, to serve as a representative of the general public's interests in other proceedings before the Commission. In all such proceedings, the appointee is called the Public Representative.
(b) Individuals appointed to represent the general public are subject to the same ex parte prohibitions as apply to all other interested persons in the cases to which they are assigned to the role of the Public Representative.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3000.115
Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations.
(a) The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations facilitates prompt and responsive communications for the Commission with the public, members of Congress, the Postal Service, state and local governments, and the media.
(b) The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations has three primary areas of responsibility: Government Relations, Consumer Affairs, and Communications.
(1)
Government Relations.
The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations is the principal liaison between the Commission and Members of Congress. It develops and maintains effective working relationships with Congressional staff; monitors legislative activity; and advises the Commission and its staff on legislative actions and policies related to the Commission and its mission. The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations works in conjunction with all Commission offices to ensure that lawmakers are informed of regulatory decisions and policies and that the Commission is responsive to Congressional inquiries for technical information. The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations also prepares Commissioners and Commission staff when called upon to provide Congressional testimony.
(2)
Consumer Affairs.
As the principal source of outreach and education to the public, the Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations provides information to postal consumers and assists in the resolution of rate and service inquiries from members of the public pursuant to part 3023 of this chapter. It supports the impartial resolution of those inquiries through use of the Postal Service's Office of Consumer Advocate and reports the results to the Commission. The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations also utilizes procedures available under the Commission's rules and applicable law
to assist relevant stakeholders in appeals of Postal Service decisions to close or consolidate individual post offices; maintains a record of service-related inquiries; and posts calendar updates and other public information on the Commission's website.
(3)
Communication.
The Office of Public Affairs and Government Relations also develops public outreach strategies for the Commission, responds to media inquiries, and disseminates information concerning Commission decisions and activities to the public.
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3000.116
Office of Inspector General.
(a) The Office of Inspector General has the duty and responsibility to:
(1) Provide policy direction and conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations relating to the programs and operations of the Commission;
(2) Review existing and proposed legislation and regulations relating to programs and operations of the Commission;
(3) Make recommendations in semiannual reports concerning the impact of such legislation or regulations on the economy and efficiency of programs and operations administered or financed by the Commission or on the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse in the Commission's programs and operations;
(4) Recommend policies and conduct, supervise, or coordinate other activities carried out or financed by the Commission for the purpose of preventing and detecting fraud and abuse in its programs and operations;
(5) Recommend policies and coordinate communications between the Commission and other federal agencies, state and local government agencies, and nongovernment entities for:
(i) All matters relating to the promotion of economy and efficiency in the administration of, or the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse in, programs and operations administered or financed by the Commission; or
(ii) The identification and prosecution of participants in such fraud and abuse;
(6) Keep the Commission and Congress fully and currently informed through reports concerning fraud and other serious problems, abuses, and deficiencies relating to programs and operations administered or financed by the Commission; recommend corrective action concerning such problems, abuses, and deficiencies; and report on the progress made in implementing such corrective action.
(b) [Reserved]
[78 FR 27045, May 9, 2013. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3001

# PART 3001—EMPLOYEE STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3001.105
Post-employment restrictions.
3001.110
Additional required notification of disqualification when seeking employment.
3001.115
Additional restriction on acceptance of anything of value.
3001.120
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Ex Parte Communications
3001.150
Ex parte communications prohibited.
3001.155
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Part 3001—Code of Ethics for Government Service

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503, 504, 3603; E.O. 12674, 54 FR 15159, 3 CFR,1989 Comp., p. 215, as modified by E.O. 12731, 56 FR 42547, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 396; 5 CFR parts 2634 and 2635.

# Source:
36 FR 5412, Mar. 23, 1971, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
82 FR 50321, Oct. 31, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3001.105
Post-employment restrictions.
All former employees of the Postal Regulatory Commission (Commission) are subject to the following restrictions on appearance and practice before
the Commission on behalf of any participant, including the United States Postal Service (Postal Service):
(a) No former employee of the Commission may practice or act as an attorney, expert witness, or representative in connection with any proceeding or matter before the Commission that the former employee has handled, advised, or participated in the consideration of while in the service of the Commission.
(b) No former employee of the Commission may within one year after the individual's employment has ceased, practice before or act as an attorney, expert witness, or representative in connection with any proceeding or matter before the Commission that was under the official responsibility of such individual, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(b), while in the service of the Commission.
[82 FR 50321, Oct. 31, 2017. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3001.110
Additional required notification of disqualification when seeking employment.
(a) Notwithstanding 5 CFR 2635.603(a), an employee that seeks employment with the Postal Service must provide written notice of disqualification to the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) consistent with 5 CFR 5601.103(a). The DAEO will inform the employee and the employee's supervisor in writing of each matter from which the employee is disqualified from participating.
(b) An employee may withdraw written notice under paragraph (a) of this section consistent with 5 CFR 5601.103(b).
[82 FR 50321, Oct. 31, 2017. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3001.115
Additional limitation on acceptance of anything of value.
Regardless of 5 CFR 2635.203(b)(7), a Commission employee may not accept a gift from the Postal Service, unless another exception or exclusion to 5 CFR 2635.203 applies or a waiver is granted by the DAEO.
[82 FR 50321, Oct. 31, 2017. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3001.120
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Ex Parte Communications

# Source:
81 FR 42540, June 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3001.150
Ex parte communications prohibited.
(a) The Commission maintains a written employee policy regarding ex parte communications applicable to all interactions, oral or in writing (including electronic), between Commission decision-making personnel, and the United States Postal Service or public stakeholders in matters before the Commission. It is the responsibility of all Commission personnel to comply with this policy, including the responsibility to inform persons not employed by the Commission of this policy when required. The policy is available for review on the Commission's website at
www.prc.gov
.
(b) Additional ex parte communications requirements, applicable to specific docket types, are described in part 3012 of this chapter.
[81 FR 42540, June 30, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3001.155
[Reserved]
Pt. 3001, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 3001—Code of Ethics For Government Service
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of the Congress that the following Code of Ethics should be adhered to by all Government employees, including office-holders:

# code of ethics for government service
Any person in Government service should:
1. Put loyalty to the highest moral principles and to country above loyalty to persons, party, or Government department.
2. Uphold the Constitution, laws, and legal regulations of the United States and of all governments therein and never be a party to their evasion.
3. Give a full day's labor for a full day's pay; giving to the performance of his duties his earnest effort and best thought.
4. Seek to find and employ more efficient and economical ways of getting tasks accomplished.
5. Never discriminate unfairly by the dispensing of special favors or privileges to anyone, whether for remuneration or not; and never accept, for himself or his family, favors or benefits under circumstances which might be construed by reasonable persons as influencing the performance of his governmental duties.
6. Make no private promises of any kind binding upon the duties of office, since a Government employee has no private word which can be binding on public duty.
7. Engage in no business with the Government, either directly or indirectly, which is inconsistent with the conscientious performance of his governmental duties.
8. Never use any information coming to him confidentially in the performance of governmental duties as a means for making private profit.
9. Expose corruption wherever discovered.
10. Uphold these principles, ever conscious that public office is a public trust.
Passed July 11, 1958.

# SUBCHAPTER B—SEEKING INFORMATION FROM THE COMMISSION
Pt. 3005

# PART 3005—PRIVACY ACT RULES
Sec.
3005.101
Purpose and scope.
3005.102
Definitions.
3005.103
Procedures for requesting inspection, copying, or correction.
3005.104
Response to a request.
3005.105
Appeals of denials of access or amendment.
3005.106
Fees.
3005.107
Exemptions.

# Authority:
Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579), 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3005, formerly part 3003, appear at 70 FR 48277, Aug. 17, 2005.
§ 3005.101
Purpose and scope.
This part implements the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) by establishing Commission policies and procedures that permit individuals to obtain access to and request amendment of information about themselves that is maintained in systems of records. This part does not expand or restrict any rights granted under the Privacy Act of 1974.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.102
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Commission
means the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(b)
Individual, record,
and
system of records
have the meanings specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a).
(c)
Day
means a calendar day and does not include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 33165, June 15, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.103
Procedures for requesting inspection, copying, or correction.
(a) An individual who—
(1) Wishes to know whether a Commission system of records contains a record about the individual,
(2) Seeks access to a Commission record about the individual that is maintained in a system of records (including the accounting of disclosures), or
(3) Seeks to amend a record about the individual that is maintained in a system of records, may file a written request with the chief administrative officer of the Commission at the Commission's current address (901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001). The request should state on the outside of the envelope and in the request that it is a Privacy Act request.
(b) A request for amendment must describe the information sought to be amended and the specific reasons for the amendment.
(c) A requester—
(1) May request an appointment to inspect records at the Commission's offices between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on any day;
(2) Must present suitable identification, such as a driver's license, employee identification card, or Medicare card;
(3) If accompanied by another individual, must sign a statement, if requested by the chief administrative officer, authorizing discussion of the individual's record in the presence of that individual;
(4) Who files a request by mail must include the individual's date of birth, dates of employment at the Commission (if applicable), and suitable proof of identity, such as a facsimile of a driver's license, employee identification card, or Medicare card; and
(5) Must, if requested by the chief administrative officer, provide additional proof of identification.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9616, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.104
Response to a request.
(a) In the case of a request for notice of the existence of a record, the chief
administrative officer shall respond within 10 days of receipt of a request and shall inform the individual whether a system of records maintained by the Commission contains such a record.
(b) In the case of a request for access to a record or for a copy of a record, the chief administrative officer shall acknowledge the request within 10 days and shall promptly thereafter—
(1) Fulfill the request by mail or arrange for an inspection by the requester in the Commission's offices; or
(2) If the request is denied, notify the requester of the denial, the reasons for the denial, the procedures for appealing the refusal, and the name and address of the Chairman of the Commission who will consider an appeal.
(c) In the case of a request for amendment, the chief administrative officer shall:
(1) Acknowledge the request in writing within 10 days;
(2) Promptly review the record; and
(3)(i) Make any requested amendment of a record found to be not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; notify the requester of the change and provide a copy of the corrected record; and notify any previous recipient of the record (excluding Commission staff who obtained the record in the performance of their duties and recipients under the Freedom of Information Act) of any change; or
(ii) Inform the requester of a refusal to amend the record, the reasons for the refusal, the procedures for appealing the refusal, and the name and address of the Chairman of the Commission who will consider an appeal.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.105
Appeals of denials of access or amendment.
(a) If a request for access to or amendment of a record is denied, the requester may file a written appeal with the Chairman of the Commission. The Chairman will decide each appeal within 30 days of receipt unless the Chairman has, for good cause, extended the period for another 30 days.
(b) If an appeal is denied, the requester will be notified of the decision, the reasons for the denial, the right to file a concise statement of disagreement, the procedures for filing a statement of disagreement, the subsequent uses of a statement of disagreement, and of the right to seek judicial review in accordance with subsection (g) of the Privacy Act.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.106
Fees.
The first copy of any record furnished under the Privacy Act of 1974 will be provided without charge. Additional copies will be charged at the cost of reproduction.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3005.107
Exemptions.
The Postal Regulatory Commission has not established any exempt system of records.
[64 FR 57982, Oct. 28, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 33165, June 15, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3006

# PART 3006—PUBLIC RECORDS AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3006.100
Applicability and scope.
3006.101
Commission policy.
3006.102
Proactive disclosures.
3006.103
Reading room.
3006.104
Chief Freedom of Information Act Officer.
3006.105
Freedom of Information Act Public Liaison.
3006.106
Commission procedure when served a subpoena.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Freedom of Information Act Requests
3006.200
Procedures for submitting requests.
3006.201
Timing of responses to requests.
3006.202
Responses to requests.
3006.203
Appeals.
3006.204
Relationship among the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, and the Commission's procedures for according appropriate confidentiality.
3006.205
Consultations, referrals, and coordinations.
3006.206
Submission of non-public materials by a person other than the Postal Service.

# Subpart C—Fees for Freedom of Information Act Requests
3006.300
Definitions applicable to this subpart.
3006.301
Request category.
3006.302
General provisions.
3006.303
Fee schedule.
3006.304
Procedure for assessing and collecting fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 39 U.S.C. 407, 503, 504.

# Source:
89 FR 65206, Aug. 9, 2024.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 3006.100
Applicability and scope.
(a) The rules in this part apply to requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552. These rules should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Guidelines).
(b) Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with the Commission's Privacy Act regulations appearing in part 3005 of this chapter and § 3006.204.
§ 3006.101
Commission policy.
(a) The Commission shall be proactive and timely in identifying and posting public records and other frequently requested records to its website.
(b) It is the stated policy of the Commission that FOIA requests shall be administered with a clear presumption of openness. The Commission will only withhold information if it reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption, such as information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (for example 39 U.S.C. 410(c)), or disclosure is otherwise prohibited by law. Publicly available information regarding exemptions and examples of exempt information are available at the Department of Justice's FOIA website,
https://www.foia.gov.
(c) This Commission policy does not create any right enforceable in court.
§ 3006.102
Proactive disclosures.
(a) Except as provided in § 3006.101(b) and in part 3011 of this chapter, Commission records, required by the FOIA to be made available, will be made available on the Commission's website,
https://www.prc.gov.
(b) Descriptions of the Commission's organization, its methods of operation, statements of policy and interpretations, and procedural and substantive rules, are published in the
Federal Register
publication system, and are available on the Commission's website,
https://www.prc.gov.
§ 3006.103
Reading room.
(a) The Commission maintains an electronic reading room at
https://www.prc.gov.
(b) The records available for public inspection include, for example, decisions; reports; opinions; orders; notices; findings; determinations; statements of policy; copies of selected records released under FOIA; indexes required to be maintained under FOIA; and records relating to any matter or proceeding before the Commission.
(c) The Commission shall make available, in an electronic form, records previously released under FOIA and which the Commission determines are or are likely to become of significant public interest.
(d) Commission records that have been requested three or more times will be made available on the Commission's website,
https://www.prc.gov.
§ 3006.104
Chief Freedom of Information Act Officer.
The Commission designates the General Counsel of the Commission as the Chief FOIA Officer. The Chief FOIA Officer shall be responsible for the administration of and reporting on the Commission's Freedom of Information Act program. The Chief FOIA Officer (and any individual(s) designated by the Chief FOIA Officer to communicate with FOIA requesters) may be contacted via email at
FOIA@prc.gov
or telephone at 202-789-6800.
§ 3006.105
Freedom of Information Act Public Liaison.
The Commission designates the Director of the Office of Public Affairs
and Government Relations or the individual's designee as the FOIA Public Liaison who shall assist in the resolution of any dispute between a requester and the Commission. The FOIA Public Liaison may be contacted via email at
PRC-PAGR@prc.gov
or telephone at 202-789-6800.
§ 3006.106
Commission procedure when served a subpoena.
If an officer or employee of the Commission is served with a subpoena duces tecum, material that is not part of the public files and records of the Commission shall be produced only as authorized by the General Counsel. Service of such a subpoena shall immediately be reported to the General Counsel with a statement of all relevant facts. The General Counsel will thereupon enter such order or give such instructions as it deems advisable.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Freedom of Information Act Requests
§ 3006.200
Procedures for submitting requests.
(a)
Electronic submission requirements.
A request will receive the quickest possible response if it is submitted electronically. An electronic request may be submitted via the Commission's online FOIA request form that is accessible through the Commission's website (
https://www.prc.gov
), emailing
FOIA@prc.gov,
or the web portal at
https://www.foia.gov/.
Each electronic request must:
(1) Reasonably describe the records sought;
(2) Identify the request category under § 3006.301; and
(3) Include the requester's name, daytime telephone number, and a valid email or mailing address to receive records and written communications from the Commission regarding the request.
(b)
Hard copy submission requirements.
A requester may also submit a request for records via hard copy. Each hard copy request must:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Be clearly identified as “Freedom of Information Act Request” both in the text of the request and on the envelope;
(3) Be submitted to the Commission's office (901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001);
(4) Reasonably describe the records sought; and
(5) Include the requester's name, daytime telephone number, and a valid email or mailing address to receive records and written communications from the Commission regarding the request.
(c)
Content of request.
Each request must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Commission personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, the request should include specific information about each record sought that might assist the Commission in responding to the request, such as the type of record (
e.g.,
contract, report, memorandum, etc.); the title or docket number of a specific document or report; the topic or subject matter; the name of the office and/or employees most likely to possess the record; the date or general timeframe of the record's creation; and any details related to the purpose of the record. Requests for email records should specify the likely senders and recipients, keywords, and a range of dates. Before submitting requests, a requester may contact the Chief FOIA Officer (or the individual's designee) or the FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records sought and to receive assistance in describing the records. The request may also specify the requester's preferred method of communication (telephone, email, or mailing address) and the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) of the requested records.
(d)
Improper requests.
A request that does not reasonably describe the records sought or does not comply with the published rules regarding the procedures to be followed for submitting a
request will be deemed to be an improper FOIA request. If the Commission does not receive the additional information needed that reasonably describes the records to enable their location by the Commission with a reasonable amount of effort, then the Commission will administratively close the file.
(1) If after receiving a request, the Commission determines that it is improper, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will provide one written notification to the requester using the contact information included in the request. The notification will inform the requester of all the following:
(i) The reason(s) why the request is improper;
(ii) The additional information needed from the requester that would reasonably describe the records to enable their location by the Commission with a reasonable amount of effort;
(iii) The Commission will not be able to comply with the request unless the Commission receives such additional information in writing within the specified timeframe and if the Commission does not receive a written response containing the additional information needed within the specified timeframe, then it will presume that the requester is no longer interested in the records and will administratively close the file on the request;
(iv) The preferred method for the requester to provide the additional information is by emailing
FOIA@prc.gov;
(v) The requester may also provide the additional information by mailing or by hand delivery during regular business hours (which are from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time, except for Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays) to the Office of Secretary and Administration, Postal Regulatory Commission, 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001); and
(vi) The contact information for the Chief FOIA Officer (or the individual's designee) and the FOIA Public Liaison, each of whom is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought.
(2) If the requester provides the additional information needed that reasonably describes the records to enable their location by the Commission with a reasonable amount of effort by the timeframe specified in the notification, then the Commission will confirm receipt of the information and process the request.
(3) After administrative closure, if the Commission receives the additional information needed that reasonably describes the records to enable their location by the Commission with a reasonable amount of effort, then the Commission will notify the requester that the request will be processed as a new request.
(e)
Expedited processing.
At any time, a requester that has satisfied all applicable requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may seek expedited processing of a request or an administrative appeal. To seek expedited processing, the requester must:
(1) Include “Expedited Freedom of Information Act Request” or “Expedited Freedom of Information Act Appeal” in the body of the submission;
(2) For any hard copy submission, include “Expedited Freedom of Information Act Request” or “Expedited Freedom of Information Act Appeal” on the envelope;
(3) Demonstrate a compelling need as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v); and
(4) Certify the statement of compelling need to be true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. The Commission has discretion to waive the certification requirement.
§ 3006.201
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
Requests will ordinarily be responded to according to their order of receipt.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
(1) Unless expedited processing has been granted, the Commission places each request in simple or complex tracks based on the amount of work and time involved in processing the request. Factors considered in assigning a request into the complex track may include one or more of the following:
(i) The request involves voluminous documents;
(ii) The complexity of the material;
(iii) The request involves record searches at multiple facilities or locations;
(iv) The request requires consultation among the Commission or other agencies; or
(v) The number of open requests submitted by the same requester.
(2) Within each track, the Commission processes requests in the order in which they are received. When appropriate, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will notify the requester of placing a request in the “Complex” track and provide the requester with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request. If the requester limits the scope of the request, it may result in faster processing.
(c)
Expedited processing.
(1) Requests and appeals shall be processed on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve the following:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will notify the requester of the decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will inform the requester of the denial in writing, the right to appeal the denial to the Commission in writing, and the procedures for appealing the denial. Any request for records that has been denied expedited processing will be processed in the same manner as a request that did not seek expedited processing.
(3) Where a compelling need is not shown in an expedited request as specified in § 3006.200(e), the Commission may grant the request for expedited processing at its discretion.
(d)
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the statutory time limit for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances”, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii), and the Commission extends the time limit on that basis, the Commission shall, before the expiration of the 20 business day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. If an extension will exceed 10 business days, the Commission will:
(1) Provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative timeframe for processing; and
(2) Make its FOIA Public Liaison available to the requester and apprise the requester of their right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
(e)
Aggregating requests.
For the purposes of satisfying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, the Commission may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a single requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. Multiple requests that involve unrelated matters shall not be aggregated.
§ 3006.202
Responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
To the extent practicable and unless the request indicates a different preferred method of communication, the Commission will communicate with the requester electronically (such as via email). In determining which records are responsive to a request, the Commission will include only records in its possession and control on the date that it begins its search. If any other date is used, the Commission shall inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c) is not considered responsive to the request.
(b)
Acknowledgments of requests.
The Commission shall acknowledge the request and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) to process. The acknowledgment must include
a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to keep track of their requests more easily.
(c)
Grants of requests.
Once the Commission makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee shall notify the requester in writing. The Commission also shall inform the requester of any fees charged and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The Commission must inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(d)
Adverse determinations of requests.
If the Commission makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, then the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(e)
Content of denials.
The denial shall be signed by the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee and shall include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied by the Commission in denying the request;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 3006.203, and a description of the requirements; and
(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the Commission's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services.
(f)
Markings on released documents.
Markings on released documents must be clearly visible to the requester. Records disclosed in part shall be marked to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted shall also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
(g)
Use of record exclusions.
(1) If the Commission identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the Commission must confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) Upon invoking an exclusion, the Commission must maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of exclusion by OIP.
§ 3006.203
Appeals.
(a)
Discretionary review.
The Commission (on its own initiative) may review any decision of the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee within 90 calendar days.
(b)
Requirements for making an appeal.
A requester may appeal an adverse decision on their FOIA request rendered by the Commission by submitting a hard copy to the Commission's office (901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001) or by emailing
FOIA@prc.gov.
The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the Commission's response. To facilitate handling, the requester must mark both the appeal letter and envelope or the subject line of the electronic transmission “Freedom of Information Act
Appeal.” The appeal must include, as applicable:
(1) A copy of the request, of any notification of denial or other action, and of any other related correspondence;
(2) The FOIA tracking number assigned to the request;
(3) A description of the action (or failure to act) which is being challenged;
(4) If challenging specific redactions made to responsive records, a statement identifying the specific redactions being challenged;
(5) A statement of the relief sought; and
(6) A statement of the reasons why the requester believes the action or failure to act is erroneous.
(c)
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The decision of the Commission constitutes the final decision on the issue being appealed. The Commission will give prompt consideration to an appeal for expedited processing of a request. All other decisions normally will be made within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from the time of the receipt by the Commission. The 20-business day response period may be extended by the Commission for a period not to exceed an additional 10 business days when reasonably necessary to permit the proper consideration of an appeal, under one or more of the “unusual circumstances”, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii). The aggregate number of additional business days used, however, may not exceed 10 business days.
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Commission must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(d)
Decisions on appeals.
A decision on an appeal must be made in writing. A decision that upholds the adverse determination in whole or in part will contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If the adverse determination is remanded or modified on appeal, the requester will be notified in writing and the Chief FOIA Officer or the individual's designee will further process the request in accordance with that appellate decision and respond directly to the requester. If not prohibited by or under law, the Commission may direct the disclosure of a record even though its disclosure is not required by law or regulation.
(e)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If the Commission agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(f)
When an appeal is required.
Before seeking judicial review of an adverse determination rendered by the Commission on a FOIA request, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.
§ 3006.204
Relationship among the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, and the Commission's procedures for according appropriate confidentiality.
(a)
Coverage.
FOIA applies to all Commission records and provides the public with access to government records.
(b)
Requesting records subject to the Privacy Act.
A request by an individual for the individual's own records contained in a system of records is governed by the Privacy Act. Release will first be considered under the Privacy Act pursuant to part 3005 of this chapter. However, if there is any record that the Commission need not release under the Privacy Act, the Commission will also consider the request under FOIA, and will release the record if FOIA requires it.
(c)
Requesting another individual's record.
Request for records of individuals which may not be granted under the Privacy Act shall be considered under FOIA.
(1) If the Commission makes a disclosure in response to a request and the
disclosure is permitted by the Privacy Act's disclosure provision, 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), the Commission will rely on the Privacy Act to govern the disclosure.
(2) In some circumstances, the Privacy Act may prohibit the Commission's ability to release records which may be released under FOIA.
(d)
Requesting a Postal Service record.
The Commission maintains custody of records that are both Commission and Postal Service records. Except when the Postal Service submits materials to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A), in all other instances that the Postal Service submits materials to the Commission that the Postal Service reasonably believes to be exempt from public disclosure, the Postal Service shall follow the procedures described in part 3011, subpart B of this chapter.
(1) A request made pursuant to FOIA for Postal Service records shall be referred to the Postal Service; and
(2) A request made pursuant to part 3011 of this chapter for records designated as non-public by the Postal Service shall be considered under the applicable standards set forth in that part.
(e)
Requesting a record submitted by a person other than the Postal Service.
The Commission maintains records of a confidential nature submitted by persons other than the Postal Service as non-public materials.
(1) A request made pursuant to FOIA for records submitted by a person other than the Postal Service shall adhere to the applicable procedures of § 3006.205. If such a FOIA request is not referred to a different Federal agency pursuant to § 3006.205(b), the Commission shall consider it in light of all applicable exemptions and in accordance with the following procedures:
(i) If such materials are designated as non-public, the Commission shall follow the procedures appearing in § 3006.206(b) through (d) in determining the FOIA request; or
(ii) In all other instances, the Commission shall determine the FOIA request after notifying the person of the FOIA request and providing the person with an opportunity to respond within 7 days of the date of the notice under the following circumstances:
(A) The records sought contain confidential commercial information that may be protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4); and
(B) The Commission determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided that at least one of the following applies:
(
1
) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4); or
(
2
) The Commission has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) A request made pursuant to part 3011 of this chapter for records designated as non-public by a person other than the Postal Service shall be considered under the applicable standards set forth in that part.
§ 3006.205
Consultations, referrals, and coordinations.
(a)
Consultations.
If records originated with the Commission but contain within them information of significance to another Federal agency or office, the Commission will typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(b)
Referrals.
In addition to referring all requests made pursuant to FOIA for Postal Service records to the Postal Service as specified by § 3006.204(d)(1), if the Commission believes that a different Federal agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the Commission will typically refer responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. Whenever the Commission refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, the Commission will notify the requester of the referral, including the name of the agency and that agency's FOIA contact information.
(c)
Coordinations.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the Federal agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if the Commission locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the Commission will coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on disclosure of the record. The Commission then will notify the requester of the release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination.
(d)
Classified information.
On receipt of any request involving classified information, the Commission will determine whether the information is currently and properly classified in accordance with applicable classification rules. Whenever a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another agency under any applicable executive order concerning the classification of records, the Commission must refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification. Whenever an agency's record contains information that has been derivatively classified (for example, when it contains information classified by another agency), the Commission must refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that classified the underlying information.
(e)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals received by the Commission will be handled according to the date that the first agency received the perfected FOIA request.
(f)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
The Commission may establish agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
§ 3006.206
Submission of non-public materials by a person other than the Postal Service.
(a)
Overlap with treatment of non-public materials.
Any person who submits materials to the Commission (submitter) that the submitter reasonably believes to be exempt from public disclosure shall follow the procedures described in part 3011, subpart B of this chapter, except when the submitter submits materials to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A).
(b)
Notice of request.
Except as provided in § 3006.204(d), if a FOIA request seeks materials designated as non-public materials, the Commission will provide the submitter with notice of the request. The Commission may also provide notice when it has reason to believe that materials submitted by a person other than the Postal Service are possibly exempt from disclosure and may fall within the scope of any FOIA request.
(c)
Objections to disclosure.
A submitter may file written objections to the request specifying all grounds for withholding the information under FOIA within 7 days of the date of the notice. If the submitter fails to respond to the notice, the submitter will be considered to have no objection, beyond those objections articulated in its application for non-public treatment pursuant to § 3011.201 of this chapter, to the disclosure of the information.
(d)
Notice of decision.
If, after considering the submitter's objections to disclosure the Commission decides to disclose the information, it will give the
submitter written notice of the decision and a brief explanation of the reasons for not sustaining the submitter's objections. The actual disclosure will not be made before 3 days after publication of the Commission's decision.

# Subpart C—Fees for Freedom of Information Act Requests
§ 3006.300
Definitions applicable to this subpart.
(a)
Commercial use
means a request from or on behalf of a person seeking information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining the applicability of this term, the use to which a requester will put the document is considered first; where reasonable doubt exists as to the use, the Commission may seek clarification before assigning the request to a category.
(b)
Direct costs
means the expenditures the Commission incurs in searching for, duplicating, and, where applicable, reviewing documents to respond to a request. They include (without limitation) the salary of the employee(s) performing work (the basic pay rate of such employee(s) plus 16 percent to cover benefits).
(c)
Duplication
means copying the documents necessary to respond to a request. Such copies may be paper, microform, audiovisual, or machine-readable.
(d)
Educational institution
means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate or undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research.
(e)
Noncommercial scientific institution
means an institution, not operated on a commercial basis (as referenced above), which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research whose results are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(f)
Representative of the news media
means any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities are television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only if such entities qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or by subscription or by free distribution to the general public. These examples are not all inclusive and may include alternate media to disseminate news. A freelance journalist shall be regarded as working for a news media entity if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that entity (
e.g.,
by a publication contract or prior publication record), whether or not the journalist is actually employed by the entity.
(g)
Review
means examining documents located in response to a request to determine whether any portion is exempt from disclosure, and processing or preparing documents for release, but not determination of general legal or policy issues regarding application of exemptions.
(h)
Search
includes all time spent looking for material responsive to a request, including identification of pages or lines within documents. The term covers both manual and computerized searching.
§ 3006.301
Request category.
(a)
Fees.
The level of fee charged depends on the request category.
(1)
Commercial use.
A request appearing to be for commercial use will be charged the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating the records sought.
(2)
Educational and noncommercial scientific institutions.
A request from an educational or noncommercial scientific institution will be charged for the cost of duplication only (excluding charges for the first 100 pages). To be eligible for this category, a requester must show that the request is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not
sought for commercial use but are in furtherance of scholarly (in the case of educational institutions) or scientific (in the case of noncommercial scientific institutions) research.
(3)
News media.
A request from a representative of the news media will be charged the cost of duplication only (excluding charges for the first 100 pages).
(4)
Other requesters.
A request from any other person will be charged the full direct cost of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating records responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first 2 hours of search/review will be furnished without charge.
(b)
Privacy Act.
A request by an individual for the individual's own records in a system of records will be charged fees as provided under the Commission's Privacy Act regulations in part 3005 of this chapter.
§ 3006.302
General provisions.
(a) The Commission may charge search fees even if no records are found or if the records found are exempt from disclosure.
(b) Except in the case of commercial use requesters, the first 100 pages of duplication and the first 2 hours of search time are provided without charge.
(1) A page for these purposes is a letter- or legal-size sheet, or the equivalent amount of information in a medium other than paper copy.
(2) Search time for these purposes refers to manual searching; if the search is performed by computer, the 2 hours provided without charge will be equal to 2 hours' salary of the person performing the search.
(c) No requester will be charged a fee when the Commission determines that the cost of collecting the fee would equal or exceed the fee itself. In determining whether cost of collection would equal or exceed the fee, the allowance for 2 hours' search or 100 pages of duplication will be made before comparing the remaining fee and the cost of collection.
(d) Records will be provided without charge or at a reduced charge if disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(e) No requester will be charged a fee after any search or response which occurs after the applicable time limits as described in §§ 3006.202 and 3006.203, unless:
(1) The Commission extends the time limit for its response due to unusual circumstances, pursuant to § 3006.201(d), and the Commission completes its response within the extension of time provided under that section; or
(2) The Commission extends the time limit for its response due to unusual circumstances and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request and the Commission has discussed with the requester how they could effectively limit the scope of the request or made at least three good faith attempts to do so; or
(3) A court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist and excused the Commission from responding by court order.
(f) The Commission may, however, charge fees for review, and in some cases duplication, for a partial grant of a request while it reviews records that may be exempt and may be responsive to the request, so long as the partial grant is made within the applicable time limits.
§ 3006.303
Fee schedule.
(a) Fees will be calculated as follows:
(1)
Manual search.
At the salary rate (basic pay plus 16 percent) of the employee(s) making the search. Search time may be charged for even if the Commission fails to locate records or if records located are exempt from disclosure.
(2)
Computer search.
At the direct cost of providing the search, including computer search time directly attributable to searching for records responsive to the request runs and employee salary apportionable to the search.
(3)
Review (commercial use).
At the salary rate (basic pay plus 16 percent) of the employee(s) conducting the review.
Charges are imposed only for the review necessary at the initial administrative level to determine the applicability of any exemption, and not for review at the administrative appeal level of an exemption already applied.
(4)
Duplication.
At 10 cents per page for paper copy, which the Commission has found to be the reasonable direct cost thereof. For copies of records prepared by computer the direct cost of production, including employee time, will be charged.
(5)
Additional services.
Postage, insurance, and other additional services that may be arranged for by the requester will be charged at actually incurred cost.
(b) In addition to the fee waiver provisions of § 3006.302(d), fees may be waived at the discretion of the Commission.
§ 3006.304
Procedure for assessing and collecting fees.
(a) Advance payment may be required if the requester failed to pay previous bills in a timely fashion or when the fees are likely to exceed $250.
(1) Where the requester has previously failed to pay within 30 days of the billing date, the Commission may require the requester to pay an advance payment of the estimated fee together with either the past due fees (plus applicable interest) or proof that the past fees were paid.
(2) When advance payment is required, the administrative time limits prescribed in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6) (§ 3006.201) begin only after such payment has been received.
(b) Interest at the rate published by the Secretary of the Treasury as prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 will be charged on unpaid fee bills starting on the 31st day after the bill was sent. Receipt of a fee by the Commission, whether processed or not, will stay the accrual of interest.
Pt. 3007

# PART 3007—COMMISSION MEETINGS

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404(d); 503; 504; 3661.

# Source:
85 FR 9618, Feb. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3007.100
Public access to Commission meetings.
(a)
Definition. Commission meeting
means the deliberations of at least three Commissioners where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Commission business.
(b)
Open Commission meetings.
(1) Commissioners shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with this section. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, every portion of every meeting of the Commission shall be open to public observation.
(2) Members of the public may not participate in open meetings. They may record the proceedings, provided they use battery-operated recording devices at their seats. Cameras may be used by observers to photograph proceedings, provided it is done from their seats and no flash or lighting equipment is used. Persons may electronically record or photograph a meeting, as long as such activity does not impede or disturb the members of the Commission in the performance of their duties, or members of the public attempting to observe, or to record or photograph, the Commission meeting.
(c)
Physical arrangements for open meetings.
The Secretary shall be responsible for seeing that ample space, sufficient visibility, and adequate acoustics are provided for public observation of the Commission meetings.
(d)
Closed Commission meetings.
Except in a case where the Commission finds that the public interest requires otherwise, the second sentence of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply to any portion of a Commission meeting, and the requirements of paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section shall not apply to any information pertaining to such meeting otherwise required by this section to be disclosed to the public, where the Commission properly determines that such portion or portions of its meetings or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that:
(i) Are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy; and
(ii) Are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order.
(2) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Commission;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires the matter to be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue; or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld.
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source;
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures; or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel.
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed Commission action, except that this paragraph (d)(9) shall not apply in any instance where the Commission has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Commission is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final Commission action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the Commission's issuance of a subpoena or the Commission's participation in a civil action or appellate proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct or disposition by the Commission of a particular case of formal Commission adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
(e)
Procedures for closing meetings.
(1) Action under paragraph (d) of this section shall be taken only when three Commissioners vote to take such action. A separate vote of the Commissioners shall be taken with respect to each agency meeting a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld under paragraph (d) of this section. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than 30 days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Commissioner participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.
(2) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the Commission close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in paragraph (d)(5), (6), or (7) of this section, the Commission upon request of any one of its members, shall vote
by recorded vote whether to close such meeting.
(3) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, the Commission shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question. If a portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public, the Commission shall, within one day of the vote taken pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, make publicly available a full written explanation of its action closing the portion together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.
(4) Any person may protest a Commission decision to hold a closed meeting under paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section by filing a motion to open the meeting. Such motion shall be addressed to the Commission and shall set forth with particularity the statutory or other authority relied upon, the reasons for which the movant believes the meeting should not be closed, and the reasons for which the movant believes that the public interest requires the meeting to be open. Such motion shall be filed with the Secretary no later than 24 hours prior to the time for which the closed meeting is scheduled.
(5) The Commission has determined that a majority of its meetings may be closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d)(4), (8), or (10) of this section or any combination thereof. Therefore, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(d)(4), Commission meetings shall be closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d)(4), (8), or (10) of this section or any combination thereof when three Commissioners vote by recorded vote at the beginning of such meeting, or portion thereof, to close the exempt portion or portions of the meeting, and a copy of such vote, reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question, is made available to the public. The provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) and (f) of this section shall not apply to any portion of a meeting to which paragraph (e)(5) of this section applies: Provided, that the Commission shall, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, provide the public with public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting and of each portion thereof at the earliest practicable time.
(f)
Scheduling and public announcement.
(1) In the case of each meeting, the Commission shall make public announcement, at least one week before the meeting, of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and phone number of the official designated by the Commission to respond to requests for information about the meeting. Such announcement shall be made unless three Commissioners determine by a recorded vote that Commission business requires that such meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case the Commission shall make public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, at the earliest practicable time.
(2) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the public announcement required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section only if the Commission publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting, or a portion of a meeting, to the public, may be changed following the public announcement required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section only if:
(i) Three Commissioners determine by a recorded vote that Commission business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and
(ii) The Commission publicly announces such change and the vote of each Commissioner upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
(3) Immediately following each public announcement required by this paragraph (f), notice of the time, place, and subject matter of a meeting, whether the meeting is open or closed, any change in one of the preceding, and the name and phone number of the official designated by the Commission to respond to requests for information
about the meeting, shall also be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register
.
(4) The public announcement required by this section may consist of the Secretary:
(i) Publicly posting a copy of the document in the reception area of the Postal Regulatory Commission located at 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001;
(ii) Mailing a copy to all persons whose names are on a mailing list maintained for this purpose;
(iii) Operating a recorded telephone announcement, giving the announcement; and
(iv) Any other means which the Secretary believes will serve to further inform any persons who might be interested.
(g)
Certification of closed meetings; transcripts, electronic recordings, and minutes.
(1) Before any meeting to be closed pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, the General Counsel of the Commission, or in the General Counsel's absence, the senior advisory staff attorney available, should publicly certify that, in the individual's opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Commission. The Commission shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d)(8) or (10) of this section, the Commission shall maintain either such a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote (reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question). All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such minutes.
(2) The Commission shall make promptly available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes (as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section) of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Commission determines by a majority vote of all its members contains information which may be withheld under paragraph (d) of this section, and is not required by the public interest to be made available. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
(h)
Requests to open or close Commission meetings.
(1)(i) Any person may request in writing that the Commission open to public observation discussion of a matter which it has earlier decided to close.
(ii) Such requests shall be captioned “Request to open ____ (date) Commission meeting on item ____ (number or description).” The request shall state the reason(s) therefor, the name and address of the person making the request and, if desired, a telephone number.
(iii) Ten copies of such requests must be received by the Office of Secretary and Administration no later than three working days after the issuance of the notice of meeting to which the request pertains. Requests received after that time will be returned to the requester with a statement that the request was untimely received and that copies of
any nonexempt portions of the transcript or minutes for the meeting in question will ordinarily be available in the Office of Secretary and Administration ten working days after the meeting.
(2)(i) Any person whose interests may be directly affected may request in writing that the Commission close to public observation discussion of a matter which it has earlier decided to open as provided for in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(ii) Such requests shall be captioned “Request to Close ____ (date) Commission meeting on item ____ (number or description),” shall state the reason(s) therefor, the name and address of the person making the request and, if desired, a telephone number.
(iii) Ten copies of such requests should be filed with the Office of Secretary and Administration as soon as possible after the issuance of the notice of meeting to which the request pertains. However, a single copy of the request will be accepted. Requests to close meetings must be received by the Office of Secretary and Administration no later than the time scheduled for the meeting to which such a request pertains.
(3) The Secretary shall retain one copy of timely requests and forward one copy to each Commissioner, one copy to the interested Office, and two copies to the Docket Section, one for entry in the appropriate docket file, if any, and one to be posted on the Public Notice Board located in that section as an attachment to the Notice of Meeting to which it pertains.
(4) Pleadings replying to requests to open or close shall not be accepted.
(5) Any Commissioner may require that the Commission vote upon the request to open or close. If the request is supported by the votes of a majority of the agency membership, notice of change in meeting shall be issued and the Secretary shall immediately notify the requester and, before the close of business the next working day, have posted such vote and other material required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section on the Commission's Public Notice Board.
(6) If no Commissioner requests that a vote be taken on a request to open or close a Commission meeting, the Secretary shall by the close of the next working day after the meeting to which such request pertains certify that no vote was taken. The Secretary shall forward one copy of that certification to the requester and two copies of that certification to the Docket Section, one to be placed in the appropriate docket file, if any, and one to be posted on the Public Notice Board, where it will be displayed for one week.

# SUBCHAPTER C—GENERAL RULES OF PRACTICE FOR PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSION
Pt. 3010

# PART 3010—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3010.100
Applicability and scope.
3010.101
Definitions.
3010.102
Commission dockets.
3010.103
Procedural schedules in docketed proceedings.
3010.104
Consolidation and severance of proceedings.
3010.105
Consideration of matters before the Commission.
3010.106
Presiding officers.
3010.107
Appeals from interlocutory rulings by presiding officers.
3010.108
Computation of time.
3010.109
Automatic closure of inactive dockets.

# Subpart B—Filing Requirements
3010.120
Filing material with the Commission.
3010.121
Filing Online system.
3010.122
Material filed using method other than the Filing Online system.
3010.123
Rejected filings.
3010.124
Form and content of text-based documents filed with the Commission.
3010.125
Library references.
3010.126
Subscription.
3010.127
Service.

# Subpart C—Participation in Commission Proceedings
3010.140
Opportunity to comment.
3010.141
Appeals of Postal Service determinations to close or consolidate post offices.
3010.142
Parties to hearings on the record.
3010.143
Representation of persons.
3010.144
Limitation of participation by investigative or prosecuting officers.

# Subpart D—Notices, Motions, and Information Requests
3010.150
Notices.
3010.151
Notices and orders initiating proceeding.
3010.152
Notices initiating dockets for consideration of negotiated service agreements.
3010.160
Motions.
3010.161
Motions for waiver.
3010.162
Motions for continuances and extensions of time.
3010.163
Motions for late acceptance.
3010.164
Motions to strike.
3010.165
Motions for reconsideration.
3010.170
Information requests.

# Subpart E—Proceedings Using Notice and Comment Procedures
3010.200
Applicability.
3010.201
Initiation of a proceeding.
3010.202
Participation in notice and comment proceedings.
3010.203
Commission action.

# Subpart F—Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record
3010.300
Applicability.
3010.301
Notice of proceeding.
3010.302
Prehearing conferences.
3010.303
Hearing format.
3010.304
Scheduling order.
3010.310
Discovery—general policy.
3010.311
Interrogatories for purpose of discovery.
3010.312
Requests for production of documents or things for purpose of discovery.
3010.313
Requests for admissions for purpose of discovery.
3010.320
Settlement conferences.
3010.321
Hearings.
3010.322
Evidence—general.
3010.323
Evidence—introduction and reliance upon studies and analyses.
3010.324
In camera orders.
3010.325
Depositions.
3010.330
Briefs.
3010.331
Proposed findings and conclusions.
3010.332
Oral argument before the presiding officer.
3010.333
Oral argument before the Commission.
3010.334
Commission decisions.
3010.335
Intermediate decisions.
3010.336
Exceptions to intermediate decisions.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404(d); 503; 504; 3661.

# Source:
85 FR 9620, Feb. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 3010.100
Applicability and scope.
(a) The rules in this part apply to practice before the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(b) When a general rule conflicts with a rule governing a specific practice
area, the rule governing the specific practice area shall take precedence.
(c) The rules in this part shall be liberally construed to secure a just and speedy determination of issues. They permit the informal disposition of any matter for which formal procedures are not specifically required by statute.
(d) Except when specifically required by statute, the rules in this part may be waived for good cause and appropriate alternative procedures may be prescribed.
(e) The rules in this part shall be referred to as the “rules of practice.” Rules are to be cited using only the numbers and letters to the right of the decimal point. For example, paragraph (a) of “§ 3010.120 Filing material with the Commission” shall be referred to as “section 120(a) of the rules of practice (39 CFR 3-1-.120(a))” or as “rule 120(a)” (39 CFR 3010.120(a)).
§ 3010.101
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means title 39 of the United States Code, as amended.
(b)
Commission
or
Commissioner
means, respectively, the Postal Regulatory Commission established by the Act or a member thereof. The Commission is located at 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001. The Commission's regular business hours are from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time, except for Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.
(c)
Complainant
means a person who files a complaint with the Commission pursuant to section 3662 of the Act in the form and manner hereinafter prescribed.
(d)
Effective date,
when used with respect to a notice, order, ruling, or other document issued by the Commission or an officer thereof (excluding documents issued for publication in the
Federal Register
), means the date the filing is posted on the Daily Listing page of the Commission's website unless otherwise specifically provided.
(e)
Hearing on the record
means a hearing conducted under sections 556 and 557 of title 5, U.S.C. (80 Stat. 386), as provided by section 3661 of the Act or in any other proceeding noticed by the Commission for a hearing on the record.
(f)
Negotiated service agreement
means a written contract, to be in effect for a defined period of time, between the Postal Service and a mailer, which provides for customer-specific rates or fees and/or terms of service in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. A rate associated with a negotiated service agreement is not a rate of general applicability.
(g)
Participant
means any person who participates, or seeks to participate, in a proceeding before the Commission.
(h)
Party
means the Postal Service, the Public Representative, a complainant, or a person who has intervened in a proceeding docketed for a hearing on the record before the Commission.
(i)
Person
means an individual, a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, public or private organization, or governmental entity.
(j)
Petitioner
means a person who is permitted by section 404(d)(5) of the Act to appeal to the Commission a determination of the Postal Service to close or consolidate a post office.
(k)
Postal Service
means the United States Postal Service established by the Act.
(l)
Postal service
refers to the delivery of letters, printed matter, or mailable packages, including acceptance, collection, sorting, transportation, or other functions ancillary thereto.
(m)
Presiding officer
means a person designated by the Chairman of the Commission or the Commission to preside over a Commission proceeding or over a hearing held on the record before the Commission.
(n)
Proceeding
means a Commission process initiated by the issuance of a notice or order that establishes a docket for the consideration of a matter before the Commission.
(o)
Product
means a postal service with a distinct cost or market characteristic for which a rate or rates are, or may reasonably be, applied.
(p)
Public proceeding
means a proceeding developing rules, regulations, and procedures or a proceeding materially affecting the interests of the general public. A proceeding considering a request for summary approval of a negotiated service agreement or of an amendment to a negotiated service
agreement is not a public proceeding. A proceeding considering a request to amend a negotiated service agreement for the sole purpose of extending the expiration date of the negotiated service agreement is not a public proceeding.
(q)
Public Representative
or
PR
means an officer of the Commission designated to represent the interests of the general public:
(1) In a public proceeding;
(2) With respect to any one of the following:
(i) The Commission's annual determination of compliance;
(ii) A request for an advisory opinion on a change in the nature of postal services which will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis,
(iii) A rate or service complaint; or
(iv) Appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office; or
(3) As appointed by the Chairman.
(r)
Rate or class of general applicability
means a rate or class that is available to all mailers equally on the same terms and conditions.
(s)
Record
means all documents and other material in a docket, including pleadings, testimony, exhibits, library references, transcripts of oral testimony or statements given or made during a hearing, comments, briefs, and
in camera
material, whether or not relied upon by the Commission or presiding officer in reaching a decision.
(t)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Commission, the Acting Secretary, or the Secretary's designee.
(u)
Small business concern
means a for-profit business entity that:
(1) Is independently owned and operated;
(2) Is not dominant in its field of operation;
(3) Has a place of business located in the United States;
(4) Operates primarily within the United States or makes a significant contribution to the United States economy by paying taxes or using American products, materials, or labor; and
(5) Together with its affiliates, qualifies as
small
in its primary industry under the criteria and size standards established by the Small Business Administration in 13 CFR 121.201 based on annual receipts or number of employees.
(v)
Website
means the Commission's website located at
https://www.prc.gov.
[85 FR 9620, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3010.102
Commission dockets.
(a) The Commission may initiate a proceeding by issuing a notice or order that establishes a docket in which a proceeding is to be conducted.
(b) When permitted by statute or regulation, any person may seek the initiation of a proceeding by filing a request with the Commission that complies with the rules governing the type of proceeding being requested.
(c) The Secretary shall maintain a docket for all matters that come before the Commission.
(d)(1) The Secretary shall assign docket designations to each matter that comes before the Commission that reflect the nature of the matter, set forth the fiscal year in which the matter came before the Commission, and where applicable, the sequential number of the docket type within the fiscal year. Available docket types are:
(i) Appeal of a Post Office Closing (A);
(ii) Annual Compliance Report (ACR);
(iii) Complaint (C);
(iv) Competitive Product Rates (CP);
(v) General (G);
(vi) International Mail (IM);
(vii) Competitive Negotiated Service Agreement (K);
(viii) Mail Classification (MC);
(ix) Market Test (MT);
(x) Change in the Nature of Postal Services (N);
(xi) Public Inquiry (PI);
(xii) Market Dominant Rates (R);
(xiii) Rulemaking (RM);
(xiv) Special Studies (SS); and
(xv) Annual Review of Tax Calculation (T).
(2) The Commission may modify the list of docket types and document formats without prior notice.
(e) The Secretary's assignment of a docket designation does not, by itself, establish a docket or initiate a proceeding. A docket is formally established and proceedings initiated only
by the issuance of a Commission notice or order except for certain negotiated service agreements for which the authority to establish a docket and initiate a proceeding by issuance of a Secretary's notice has been delegated to the Secretary.
(f) The substance of the matter presented to the Commission, not the assigned docket type, shall govern the procedural requirements for the docket.
(g) Material filed with the Commission following the Secretary's assignment of a docket designation shall include the assigned docket designation.
(h) Public material filed within a docket may be viewed at the Commission's Docket Section during regular business hours. Public documents filed in a docket that appear in electronic format may also be accessed remotely via the Commission's website. Confidential material filed under seal in a docket may only be accessed with prior authorization. Part 3011 of this chapter sets forth the procedures for obtaining such authorization. Persons who wish to access confidential material should contact the Commission's Docket Section for the appropriate mode for transmitting material filed under seal.
(i) Active dockets may only be closed by the Commission.
[85 FR 9620, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3010.103
Procedural schedules in docketed proceedings.
Procedural schedules shall be established and may be periodically modified for each matter that is assigned a docket designation.
§ 3010.104
Consolidation and severance of proceedings.
The Commission may order proceedings involving related issues or facts to be consolidated for consideration of any or all matters at issue in such proceedings. The Commission may sever proceedings which have been consolidated or order separate proceedings on any issue presented if it appears that separate proceedings will be more convenient, expeditious, or otherwise appropriate.
§ 3010.105
Consideration of matters before the Commission.
(a) Unless it orders otherwise, the Commission shall sit
en banc
in all matters that come before it. In those proceedings in which a presiding officer is appointed, the Commission will continue to sit
en banc,
unless modified by Commission notice or order, with the presiding officer responsible for those matters within the scope of the presiding officer's authority.
(b) A decision to establish a docket (other than certain negotiated service agreement dockets), close an active docket, or reach a final decision in any docket shall be by majority vote of the Commissioners then in office.
§ 3010.106
Presiding officers.
(a)
Designation of presiding officers.
The Chairman, in consultation with all other Commissioners then in office, may designate any Commissioner, including the Chairman, to act as presiding officer over any matter before the Commission. Subject to approval by majority vote of all Commissioners then in office, the Chairman may also designate any member of the Commission's staff, an Administrative Law Judge employed by the Commission for a specific proceeding, or any person under contract with the Commission to serve as presiding officer over any matter before the Commission. Contracts between the Commission and any person who is to serve as a presiding officer must include provisions that incorporate the ethical requirements and standards applicable to Commission employees who serve as presiding officers.
(b)
Notice of designation.
The Secretary shall issue a notice of any decision to designate a presiding officer. The notice shall identify the presiding officer and the date of appointment. Any expansion or limitation on the presiding officer's authority, or specific direction to a presiding officer (such as specific direction to issue an intermediate decision for the Commission's consideration) not specified in this section shall be included in the notice.
(c)
Authority delegated.
Presiding officers shall have the authority, within
the Commission's powers and subject to its published rules to:
(1) Regulate the course of a proceeding before the Commission, including ruling on all matters not specifically reserved for the Commission, either orally during a hearing or by issuing written presiding officer rulings;
(2) Regulate the course of a public hearing, including the recessing, reconvening, and adjournment thereof;
(3) Issue presiding officer information requests;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas authorized by law (limited to Commissioners and Administrative Law Judges designated as presiding officers);
(6) Rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;
(7) Take or authorize that depositions be taken as provided in § 3010.324;
(8) Hold appropriate conferences before or during hearings and to rule on matters raised at such conferences, including prehearing conferences held pursuant to § 3010.302;
(9) Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters except for motions to dismiss or to otherwise make a final determination of a proceeding prior to the issuance of an intermediate decision as provided in paragraph (c)(11) of this section;
(10) Certify, within their discretion, or upon direction of the Commission, any question to the Commission for its consideration and disposition including, without limitation, motions to dismiss or to otherwise make a final determination of a proceeding prior to the issuance of an intermediate decision as provided in paragraph (c)(11) of this section;
(11) Submit an intermediate decision in accordance with § 3010.335, when directed; and
(12) Take any other action necessary or appropriate to the discharge of the duties vested in them, consistent with the statutory or other authorities under which the Commission functions and with the rules, regulations, and policies of the Commission.
(d)
Conduct of hearings.
It is the duty of the presiding officer to conduct fair and impartial hearings and to maintain order. Any disregard by participants or counsel of presiding officer rulings on matters of order or procedure shall be noted on the record, and where the presiding officer deems it necessary shall be made the subject of a special written report to the Commission. In the event that participants or counsel should be guilty of disrespectful, disorderly, or contumacious language or conduct in connection with any hearing, the presiding officer may immediately submit to the Commission a report thereon, together with recommendations, and in the presiding officer's discretion, suspend the hearing.
(e)
Disqualification.
A presiding officer may withdraw from a proceeding when necessary due to disqualification, or may be removed by the Commission for good cause.
§ 3010.107
Appeals from interlocutory rulings by presiding officers.
(a)
General policy.
The Commission will not review interlocutory rulings of a presiding officer except in extraordinary circumstances.
(b)
Appeals certified by the presiding officer.
(1) Rulings of the presiding officer may be appealed to the Commission when the presiding officer certifies in writing that an interlocutory appeal is warranted. The presiding officer shall not certify an appeal unless the officer finds that:
(i) The ruling involves an important question of law or policy concerning which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and
(ii) An immediate appeal from the ruling will materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding or subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy.
(2) A request for the presiding officer to certify an appeal shall be made by motion within five days after the presiding officer's ruling has been issued. The request shall set forth with specificity the reasons that a participant believes that an appeal meets the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Such requests shall also state in detail the legal, policy, and factual arguments supporting the participant's position that the ruling should be modified. If the appeal is from a ruling rejecting or excluding
evidence, such request shall include a statement of the substance of the evidence which the participant contends would be adduced by the excluded evidence and the conclusions intended to be derived therefrom.
(3) The presiding officer may request responsive pleadings from other participants prior to ruling upon the request to certify an appeal to the Commission.
(c)
Appeals not certified by the presiding officer.
A participant may request Commission review of a presiding officer's decision denying certification of an appeal by motion within five days of the decision. If the presiding officer fails to act on a request for certification within 15 days of the issuance of the ruling in question, the participant seeking certification may apply for review by the Commission within 20 days of the ruling in question. Unless the Commission directs otherwise, its review of the application for review will be based on the record and pleadings filed before the presiding officer pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Action by the Commission.
(1) The Commission may dismiss an appeal certified by the presiding officer if it determines that:
(i) The objection to the ruling should be deferred until the Commission's consideration of the entire proceeding; or
(ii) Interlocutory review is otherwise not warranted or appropriate under the circumstances.
(2) When the presiding officer declines to certify an appeal, the Commission will not permit an interlocutory appeal unless it determines:
(i) That the presiding officer should have certified the matter;
(ii) That extraordinary circumstances exist; and
(iii) That prompt Commission decision is necessary to prevent grave detriment to the public interest.
(3) If the Commission fails to issue an order permitting an interlocutory appeal within 15 days after the presiding officer certifies the appeal or a participant files an application for review, the appeal shall be deemed denied. If the Commission issues an order permitting an appeal, it may rule upon the merits of the appeal in that order or at a later time.
(e)
Effect of appeals.
Unless the presiding officer or the Commission so orders, the certification of an appeal or the filing of an application for review shall not stay the proceeding or the effectiveness of any ruling.
(f)
Review at conclusion of proceeding.
If the Commission does not entertain an interlocutory appeal of a presiding officer's ruling, objection to the ruling may be raised:
(1) In briefs to the presiding officer or the Commission at the conclusion of hearings on the record; or
(2) By the deadline for submission of comments or reply comments, whichever is later, in all other proceedings in which a hearing on the record is not held.
§ 3010.108
Computation of time.
(a) In computing time periods, the term “day” shall mean calendar day.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, in computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this part, or by any notice, order, rule, presiding officer ruling, or regulation of the Commission or a presiding officer, the day of the act, event, or default after which a designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.
(c) The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday, or a day on which the Commission is not continuously open from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. or on which the Commission's docketing system is not accessible continuously during that time. In any such case, the applicable time period shall run until the end of the next full business day that the Commission is open and its docketing system is accessible.
(d) Except in proceedings to consider changes in the nature of postal services conducted under part 3020 of this chapter, in computing a period of time which is five days or less, all Saturdays, Sundays, Federal holidays, or days on which the Commission is not continuously open from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. or on which the Commission's docketing system is not accessible continuously during that time are to be excluded.
§ 3010.109
Automatic closure of inactive dockets.
(a)
Automatic closure.
The Commission shall automatically close a docket in which there has been no activity of record by any person for 12 consecutive months, except dockets in which further action by the Commission is required by statute or regulation, or dockets for which the Commission finds good cause to remain open.
(b)
Notice of closure.
Each month, the Commission shall post on its website a list of dockets that will be subject to automatic closure during the following calendar month and will include the date on which the docket will automatically close.
(c)
Motions to stay automatic closure.
(1) Persons, including the Postal Service or a Public Representative, may file a motion to stay automatic closure of a docket and request that the docket remain open for a specified term not to exceed 12 months. Motions to stay automatic closure must be filed at least 15 days prior to the automatic closure date.
(2) The Commission may order a docket remain open for a specified term not to exceed 12 months and must file such order at least 15 days prior to the automatic closure date.
(d)
Motions to reopen automatically closed dockets.
(1) If, at any time after a docket has been automatically closed, persons, including the Postal Service or a Public Representative, may file a motion to reopen the docket and must set forth with particularity good cause for reopening the docket.
(2) The Commission may order a closed docket to be reopened, and must set forth the basis for reopening the docket.

# Subpart B—Filing Requirements
§ 3010.120
Filing material with the Commission.
(a) All material filed with the Commission shall be transmitted to the Commission in electronic format using the Filing Online system available over the internet through the Commission's website at
http://www.prc.gov.
The material must satisfy the Filing Online system compatibility requirements specified by the Secretary in the Filing Online User Guide, which shall also be accessible on the Commission's website. The exceptions to this rule are:
(1) Material that cannot reasonably be converted to electronic format;
(2) Confidential material filed under seal pursuant to part 3011 of this chapter shall not be transmitted electronically using the Filing Online system or any other electronic filing system unless authorized in advance by the Secretary;
(3) Hardcopy material filed by persons who do not have the ability to submit material using the Filing Online system and who files not more than ten pages of material with the Commission in any one calendar year;
(4) Hardcopy material filed by persons participating in proceedings that consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office, other than the Postal Service, that do not have the ability to submit material using the internet; and
(5) Hardcopy material filed in docketed proceedings with the approval of the Secretary for good cause shown.
(b) Material subject to the exceptions specified in paragraph (a) of this section may be filed either by mailing or by hand delivery during regular business hours to the Office of Secretary and Administration, Postal Regulatory Commission, 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001. The Secretary has authority to approve the use of secure alternative electronic filing systems pursuant to § 3011.203(c)(2) of this chapter for confidential material filed under seal. The Secretary also has authority to approve the use of alternative electronic filing systems for non-confidential material on a case-by-case basis when necessary to facilitate efficient docketing operations.
§ 3010.121
Filing Online system.
(a) Only registered users of the Filing Online system may file material using the Filing Online system. Both temporary and permanent account registrations are available. Information for establishing a Filing Online account may be obtained on the Commission's website at
http://www.prc.gov.
(b) A temporary account allows a user to file materials immediately, but expires after 35 days. The purpose of a temporary account is to permit persons to file comments solicited by the Commission on a one-time or infrequent basis, or to file notices of intervention where there is limited time in which to establish a permanent account. A temporary account also may be used on an extraordinary basis for good cause shown.
(c) A permanent account requires the authorization of the Secretary prior to use, but remains active until cancelled. Registration can be in the form of a principal account holder or as an agent of the principal account holder. When a principal account holder is representing the interests of another person, the authority of the principal account holder to represent the person on whose behalf the document is filed must be valid and current, in conformance with § 3010.143. The authority of an agent account holder to submit documents for a principal account holder must be valid and current. A principal account holder must promptly inform the Secretary of any change in the principal account holder's authority to represent participants in a proceeding or any change in the authority delegated to an agent account holder to submit documents on the principal account holder's behalf.
(d) Only such material that conforms to the requirements of this part and any other applicable Commission rule or order shall be accepted for filing. In order for material to be accepted using the Filing Online system, it must be submitted to the Commission by a temporary or permanent account holder. Material submitted through the Filing Online system is considered to have been filed on the date indicated on the receipt issued by the Secretary. A filing is accepted when the Secretary, after review, posts the filing on the Daily Listing page of the Commission's website. Material received after the close of regular business hours or on a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday or other day on which the Commission is closed shall be deemed to be filed on the next regular business day.
§ 3010.122
Material filed using method other than the Filing Online system.
(a)
Hardcopy and other forms of material.
A hardcopy document is filed on the date stamped by the Secretary. It is accepted when the Secretary, after review, posts the document on the Daily Listing page of the Commission's website. Any other form of material filed with the Commission must be accompanied by a hardcopy notice of filing, which describes the material being filed, identifies the person filing the material, and specifies the docket caption and docket number under which the material is being filed. This material is accepted when the Secretary, after review, posts the notice of filing on the Daily Listing page of the Commission's website. Material received after the close of regular business hours or on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday shall be deemed to be filed on the next regular business day.
(b)
Computer media.
With the prior approval of the Secretary, a participant may submit a document on a compact disk or other media or method approved in advance by the Secretary, simultaneously with the filing of one printed original hardcopy, provided that the stored document is a file generated in either Acrobat (pdf), Word, WordPerfect, or Rich Text Format (rtf).
§ 3010.123
Rejected filings.
Any filing that does not comply with an applicable Commission rule or order may be rejected. Any filing that is rejected is deemed not to have been filed with the Commission. If a filing is rejected, the Secretary will attempt to notify the person submitting the filing, indicating the reason(s) for rejection. Acceptance for filing shall not waive any failure to comply with this part, and such failure may be cause for subsequently striking all or any part of any document. Any controversies concerning the acceptability of a filing shall be resolved after review by the Office of General Counsel.
§ 3010.124
Form and content of text-based documents filed with the Commission.
(a)
Equivalent paper size.
Each document filed in paper form shall be produced on letter-size paper, 8 to 8
1/2
inches wide by 10
1/2
to 11 inches long, with left- and right-hand margins not less than 1 inch and other margins not less than 0.75 inches, except that tables, charts or special documents attached thereto may be larger if required, provided that they are folded to the size of the document to which they are attached. For a multiple page document, the preference is for the document to be not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent. If the document is bound, it shall be bound on the left side. Each document filed in electronic form must be capable of meeting the above requirements when-printed from a text-based pdf formatted file version of the document. Consideration may be given to alternative file formats where necessary.
(b)
Line spacing and font.
The text of documents filed with the Commission shall be formatted in not less than one and one-half spaced lines except that tables of content, captions, tables, footnotes and quotations may be single-spaced. Documents shall be submitted in a san-serif font such as Arial (or substantially equivalent). Body text shall be 12 point, except that footnotes and quotations may appear as small as 10 point. Where necessary, special text such as in tables or charts, may appear as small as 9 point. These requirements may be waived on a case-by-case basis, based on both substantial compliance and the readability of the document.
(c)
Caption, title, page numbering, and table of contents.
The caption of each document filed with the Commission in any proceeding shall clearly show the docket designation and title of the proceeding before the Commission. The title of such document shall identify each participant on whose behalf the filing is made and include a brief description of the document or the nature of the relief sought therein (
e.g.,
motion for extension, brief on exceptions, complaint, notice of intervention, answer to complaint). Each page, after the first page, of a document shall be consecutively numbered. Unique page numbers are permissible for introductory material such as cover pages and table of contents, and for appendixes. Each document filed with the Commission consisting of 20 or more pages shall include a table of contents with page references. For briefs also
see
§ 3010.330.
(d)
Improper matter.
Defamatory, scurrilous, or unethical matter shall not be included in any document filed with the Commission.
(e)
Exception for appeals of post office closings and consolidations.
The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are encouraged, but optional, for participants other than the Postal Service in proceedings to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office conducted pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter.
§ 3010.125
Library references.
(a)
In general.
A library reference is a special type of filing, which is accepted by the Commission for the convenience of the person filing material that is not conducive to typical text based filings. The filing of a document as a library reference is appropriate when interest in the material is limited, when the material constitutes a secondary source that provides background or support for a position or matter, or when references to, or identification of, the material filed as a library reference would be facilitated. Examples of materials that are appropriate for filing as library references include electronic spreadsheets, workpapers in support of primary documents, pre-existing materials, secondary sources such as books or materials that are not readily available elsewhere, or other foundational materials filed in support of a primary document. Whenever possible, library references are to be filed in electronic format. The Commission reserves the right to refuse acceptance of any library reference material in its docket room and its right to take other action to ensure all persons' ability to obtain access to the material.
(b)
Categorization of library references.
To the extent possible, material filed
as a library reference shall be identified and referred to by participants in terms of the following categories:
(1) Category 1—Reporting Systems Material (consisting of library references relating to the Postal Service's statistical cost and revenue reporting systems, and their primary outputs);
(2) Category 2—Witness Foundational Material (consisting of material relating to the testimony of specific witnesses, primarily that which is essential to the establishment of a proper foundation for receiving into evidence the results of studies and analyses);
(3) Category 3—Reference Material (consisting of previously published material provided for the convenience of the reader, such as books, chapters or other portions of books, articles, reports, manuals, handbooks, guides, and contracts);
(4) Category 4—Material Provided in Response to Discovery (consisting of material provided in response to discovery requests);
(5) Category 5—Disassociated Material (consisting of material filed at the request of another, from which the filing party wishes to be disassociated, is not vouching for or sponsoring the material provided);
(6) Category 6—All Other Material (consisting of library references not fitting any of the other categories).
(c)
Labeling.
Material filed as a library reference shall be labeled in a manner consistent with standard Commission notation and any other conditions the Commission or presiding officer establishes. Each library reference shall be identified by a unique identification number. The standard format for an identification number shall be “[abbreviated name of person filing]-LR-[docket identification]-[optional: NP][sequential number by person filing].” For example, “PRC-LR-CP2010-1-NP8” read right to left would be the eighth (8) non-public (NP) item filed in Docket No. (CP2010-1) as a library reference (LR) by the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC). Alternative formats may be used when required for clear identification of the material being filed.
(d)
Filing procedure.
Participants filing material as a library reference shall file contemporaneous written notice of this action. The notice shall:
(1) Set forth the reason(s) why the material is being designated as a library reference;
(2) Identify the category into which the material falls and describe in detail what the material consists of or represents, noting matters such as the presence of survey results;
(3) Explain in detail how the material relates to the participant's case or to issues in the proceeding;
(4) Identify authors or others materially contributing to substantive aspects of the preparation or development of the library reference;
(5) Identify the documents (such as testimony, exhibits, and an interrogatory) or request to which the library reference relates, to the extent practicable;
(6) Identify other library references or testimony relied upon or referred to in the designated material, to the extent practicable;
(7) Indicate whether the library reference is an update or revision to another library reference and, if it is, clearly identify the predecessor material; and
(8) To the extent feasible, for proceedings scheduled for a hearing on the record, identify portions expected to be entered into the record and the expected sponsor (if the participant filing a library reference anticipates seeking, on its own behalf, to enter all or part of the material contained therein into the evidentiary record). To the extent feasible, in all other proceeding types, identify portions relevant to the proceeding.
(e)
Optional preface or summary.
Inclusion of a preface or summary in a library reference addressing the matters set out in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section is encouraged, but optional.
§ 3010.126
Subscription.
(a) Each document filed with the Commission shall be subscribed. Subscription constitutes a certification that the person filing the document has read the document being filed; that the person filing the document knows the contents thereof; that if executed in any representative capacity, the
document has been subscribed in the capacity specified in the document with full power and authority so to do; that to the best of the person's knowledge, information and belief every statement contained in the document is true and no such statements are misleading; and that such document is not filed for purposes of delay. This requirement extends to notices of filing for library references or other material, including the underlying library references or other material to the extent referenced in the notice of filing.
(b) For a document or notice of filing filed via the Filing Online system, the subscription requirement is met when the document or notice of filing is filed with the Commission.
(c) For a hardcopy document or hardcopy notice of filing, the subscription requirement is met by signing in ink, by affixing an electronic signature, or by including the typed name of the individual, authorized office, employee, attorney, or other representative who files the document or notice.
§ 3010.127
Service.
(a) Material filed by a person participating in a docket shall be deemed served on all other persons (except those served by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section) who are participating in the docket as of the date the material, or notice of the material's filing is posted by the Secretary on the Commission's website.
(b) The Secretary shall provide service by First-Class Mail, which is deemed complete upon mailing, to the following persons upon a demonstration of the inability to effectively utilize the Filing Online system (until alternative arrangements are established):
(1) Petitioners in dockets appealing Postal Service determinations to close or consolidate post offices conducted pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter;
(2) Parties that have intervened in proceedings docketed for a hearing on the record; and
(3) Where necessary for fairness and protection of due process, an active participant in a proceeding affecting the substantial rights of that participant.
(c) The Secretary shall maintain a current service list in each proceeding docketed for a hearing on the record which shall include the parties that have intervened in that proceeding and up to two individuals designated for physical service of documents, if necessary, by each party. The service list for each current proceeding will be available on the Commission's website at
http://www.prc.gov.
Each party who has internet access shall be responsible for ensuring that its listing on the Commission's website is accurate and should promptly notify the Secretary of any errors. The Secretary or the Secretary's designee shall be responsible for ensuring the accuracy of listings of any parties who lack internet access.

# Subpart C—Participation in Commission Proceedings
§ 3010.140
Opportunity to comment.
Except for proceedings involving an appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office, any person may submit comments in public proceedings before the Commission. An opportunity to provide a reply to comments shall be at the discretion of the Commission, or the presiding officer if one is appointed. The scope and timing of comments and reply comments may be specified by notice, order, or presiding officer's ruling. There is no requirement to intervene in a proceeding as a party in order to submit comments.
[89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3010.141
Appeals of Postal Service determinations to close or consolidate post offices.
(a) Only a person served by the post office in which the Postal Service has issued a decision to close or consolidate a post office may file an appeal of the decision with the Commission.
(b) Any other person served by the same post office under review who desires to participate in the proceeding, or any Postmaster, counsel, agent, or other person authorized or recognized by the Postal Service as such person's representative, may participate in an appeal by submitting comments.
(c) Except for persons identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the designated Public Representative, and the Postal Service, no other person may participate in a proceeding to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office.
(d) Opposition to a person asserting eligibility for participation shall be made within three days of that person's first filing in the proceeding.
§ 3010.142
Parties to hearings on the record.
(a)
Parties to a proceeding.
Any interested person may become a party to proceedings docketed for a hearing on the record by filing a notice of intervention. The Postal Service, and the Public Representative are automatically deemed parties in such proceedings without the need to file a notice of intervention. Persons who file a complaint are also automatically deemed a party to a complaint proceeding without the need to file a notice of intervention. Parties may be provided an opportunity to participate in discovery, file testimony, participate in the written or oral examination of witnesses, file briefs, or present oral argument before the Commission or the presiding officer. Persons that have not intervened may participate in a proceeding docketed for a hearing on the record, but such participation shall be limited to providing comments pursuant to § 3010.140 unless otherwise directed.
(b)
Notices of intervention.
A notice of intervention shall clearly and concisely set forth the nature and extent of the intervenor's interest in the issues to be decided, including the postal services utilized by the intervenor giving rise to the intervenor's interest in the proceeding, and to the extent known, the position of the intervenor with regard to the proposed changes in postal rates, fees, classifications, or services, or the subject matter of the complaint, as described in the notice of the proceeding. Such notice shall state whether or not the intervenor requests a hearing or in lieu thereof, a conference, and whether or not the intervenor intends to actively participate in a hearing. Such notice shall also include on page one thereof the name and full mailing address of no more than two persons who are to receive service, when necessary, of any documents relating to such proceeding.
(c)
Form and time of filing.
Notices of intervention shall be filed no later than the date fixed for such filing by the Commission or its Secretary, unless for good cause shown, the Commission authorizes a late filing. Without a showing for good cause, late intervenors shall be subject to and may not challenge decisions by the Commission or presiding officer made prior to acceptance of the request for late intervention.
(d)
Oppositions.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, oppositions to notices of intervention may be filed by any party in the proceeding no later than ten days after the notice of intervention is filed.
(2) Oppositions to notices of interventions in proceedings considering the change in the nature of a postal service pursuant to part 3020 of this chapter may be filed by any party in the proceeding no later than three days after the notice of intervention is filed.
(3) Pending Commission action, an opposition to intervention shall, in all proceedings except those considering the change in the nature of a postal service pursuant to part 3020 of this chapter, delay on a day-for-day basis the date for responses to discovery requests filed by that intervenor.
(e)
Effect of intervention.
A person filing a notice of intervention shall be a party to the proceeding subject, however, to a determination by the Commission, either in response to an opposition, or
sua sponte,
that party status is not appropriate under the Act. Intervenors are also subject to the right of the Commission or the presiding officer as specified in § 3010.104 to require two or more intervenors having substantially like interests and positions to join together for purposes of service of documents, presenting evidence, making and arguing motions and objections, propounding discovery, cross-examining witnesses, filing briefs, and presenting oral arguments to the Commission or presiding officer. No intervention shall be deemed to constitute a decision by the Commission that the
intervenor is aggrieved for purposes of perfecting an appeal of any final order of the Commission.
§ 3010.143
Representation of persons.
(a)
By whom.
An individual may participate on the individual's own behalf; a member of a partnership may represent the partnership; and an officer may represent a corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or governmental entity. A person may be represented in a proceeding by an attorney at law admitted to practice and in good standing before the Supreme Court of the United States, the highest court of any State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or the Court of Appeals or the District Court for the District of Columbia.
(b)
Authority to act.
When an officer or an attorney acting in a representative capacity appears in person, submits a document to the Commission using the Filing Online system as a principal account holder, or signs a paper filed with the Commission, the personal appearance, online submission, or signature, shall constitute a representation to the Commission that that individual is authorized to represent the particular person on whose behalf the individual acts. Any individual appearing before or transacting business with the Commission in a representative capacity may be required by the Commission or the presiding officer to file evidence of the individual's authority to act in such capacity.
(c)
Notice of appearance and withdrawal of appearance.
An individual intending to appear before the Commission or its presiding officer in a representative capacity in a proceeding before the Commission shall file with the Commission a notice of appearance in the form prescribed by the Secretary unless that individual is named in an initial filing of the person whom the individual represents as the individual to whom communications from the Commission in regard to the filing are to be addressed. An individual whose authority to represent a person in a specific Commission proceeding has been terminated shall file a timely notice of withdrawal of appearance with the Commission.
(d)
Standards of conduct.
Individuals practicing before the Commission shall conform to the standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners by the District of Columbia Rules of Professional Conduct.
(e)
Disqualification and suspension.
After hearing, the Commission may disqualify and deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing and practicing before it in any way to any individual who is found not to possess the requisite qualifications, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. Contumacious conduct at any hearing before the Commission or its presiding officer shall be grounds for exclusion of any individual from such hearing and for summary suspension for the duration of the hearing by the Commission or the presiding officer.
§ 3010.144
Limitation of participation by investigative or prosecuting officers.
No officer, employee, or agent of the Commission who participates in a proceeding before the Commission as an attorney or witness or who actively participates in the preparation of evidence or argument presented by such persons, shall participate or advise as to the intermediate decision or Commission decision in that proceeding.

# Subpart D—Notices, Motions, and Information Requests
§ 3010.150
Notices.
(a)
Purpose.
A notice is a document that announces a past, present, or future, event or occurrence. A notice shall not be combined with a request for any order or ruling that otherwise should be presented by motion. The Commission or presiding officer shall not combine a notice with a Commission order or a presiding officer's ruling, unless the title of the document clearly states the intent of document being issued.
(b)
Filing requirements.
The title of any document filed as a notice shall contain the word “notice.” Additional requirements for the content of specific forms of notices are provided throughout chapter III of this title, where appropriate.
§ 3010.151
Notices and orders initiating proceeding.
(a) Upon a finding that a matter is properly before the Commission, the Commission shall issue a notice and order initiating the proceeding to consider that matter. The rules in this section apply to all proceedings except for:
(1) Proceedings to consider certain negotiated service agreements, which are noticed pursuant to § 3010.152; and
(2) Proceedings to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate post office, pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter.
(b) The notice and order shall:
(1) Describe the general nature of the proceeding,
i.e.,
a complaint, a rulemaking, a change in rates, a change in the product lists, a change in the nature of postal services, etc.;
(2) Identify the person(s) requesting the initiation of the docket, if applicable;
(3) Refer to the legal authority under which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(4) Provide a sufficient description of the matter being considered such that the reader is informed of the substance of the proceeding, and provide direction as to where further information may be obtained;
(5) Establish the docket under which the proceeding will be conducted;
(6) Assign a Public Representative to represent the interests of the public, when required;
(7) Describe how interested persons may participate in the proceeding;
(8) Establish procedural deadlines, if known; and
(9) Include such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
(c) For proceedings docketed for a hearing on the record pursuant to subpart F of this part, the notice and order shall also:
(1) Specify the date by which notices of intervention and requests for hearing must be filed;
(2) Specify the date, time, and place of a prehearing conference or first public hearing, if known; and
(3) Include the procedural schedule provided for under § 3020.110 of this chapter in proceedings to consider changes in the nature of postal services pursuant to part 3020 of this chapter.
(d) The document shall be published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 3010.152
Notices initiating dockets for consideration of negotiated service agreements.
(a) The Secretary shall issue a notice to initiate a docket for each request that proposes the addition or removal of a negotiated service agreement from the market dominant or the competitive product list, or the modification of an existing product currently appearing on the market dominant or the competitive product list. Multiple requests may be combined into a single notice.
(b) The document shall specify:
(1) The docket number associated with each Postal Service request;
(2) The title of each Postal Service request;
(3) The request's acceptance date;
(4) The legal authority cited by the Postal Service for each request;
(5) The appointment of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the proceeding, unless the proceeding is not a public proceeding;
(6) The comment deadline pertaining to each request, unless the proceeding is not a public proceeding.
(c) The document shall be published in the
Federal Register
.
[85 FR 9620, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3010.160
Motions.
(a)
Motions.
A motion is an application for a Commission order or ruling by a presiding officer. Motions may be presented by any person who participates in, or who seeks to participate in, a proceeding before the Commission. Motions may be supported by declarations, exhibits, library references, attachments, and other submissions. Motions shall set forth with particularity the ruling or relief sought, the grounds therefore and the statutory and other authorities relied upon. Motions shall be in writing, except that after a hearing has convened, motions may be made orally to the Commission or to the presiding officer if one has been appointed.
(b)
Responses to motions.
A response to a motion may be presented by any person who participates in, or who seeks to participate in, a proceeding before the Commission. Responses shall state with particularity the position of the person submitting the response with regard to the relief or ruling requested in the motion and the grounds therefore and the statutory and other authorities relied upon. Responses to written motions must be filed within seven days after the motion is filed and posted on the Commission's website, or such other deadline as the rules of practice provide or as the Commission or presiding officer may establish. Responses to oral motions made during a hearing may be made orally to the Commission or to the presiding officer if one has been appointed, unless directed to reduce the response to writing for subsequent consideration.
(c)
Replies.
Unless the Commission or presiding officer otherwise provides, no reply to a response or any further responsive document may be filed.
(d)
Rulings.
The Commission or the presiding office may rule on a motion in writing, or orally during a hearing. A ruling may be issued immediately, without waiting for a response, whenever the person propounding the motion asserts that all affected persons have been contacted and agree not to oppose the motion or when the Commission in its discretion determines that immediate action is appropriate.
§ 3010.161
Motions for waiver.
(a) Any person may file a motion requesting that any requirement imposed by regulation, order, ruling, or Commission, Chairman, or presiding officer request be waived.
(b) Motions for waiver will not be entertained unless timely filed so as to permit disposition of the motion prior to the date specified for the requirement for which waiver is requested. The pendency of a motion for waiver does not excuse any person from timely meeting the requirement for which the waiver is requested.
(c) Motions for waiver may be granted in whole or in part to the extent permitted by law upon a showing of good cause and that such waiver will be consistent with the public interest and will not unduly prejudice the interests of other participants.
§ 3010.162
Motions for continuances and extensions of time.
(a) Any person may file a motion requesting the continuance of a hearing or the extension of time for any deadline.
(b) The motion should be filed before the expiration of the specified time for the deadline for preforming the act for which the continuance or extension is requested.
(c) The motion shall only be granted upon consideration of the potential adverse impact, if any, on other participants and the overall impact on the procedural schedule.
§ 3010.163
Motions for late acceptance.
(a) Any person may file a motion requesting that the Commission or the presiding officer accept any material filed by that person after an established filing deadline.
(b) The motion should be filed prior to or concurrent with the filing of any material filed after the established deadline.
(c) The Commission or the presiding officer are under no obligation to further consider any material filed after an established deadline, unless late acceptance is approved by the Commission or presiding officer. Posting late filed material to the Commission's website alone is not an indication that the material will be considered.
§ 3010.164
Motions to strike.
(a) Any person may, by motion, request that any material be stricken from consideration in any proceeding.
(b) Motions to strike are requests for extraordinary relief that must be supported with justification for why the material should be stricken from consideration. Motions to strike shall not be used as a substitute for rebuttal testimony, briefs, comments, or any other form of pleading.
§ 3010.165
Motions for reconsideration.
(a) Any person may file a motion requesting reconsideration of a final order by the Commission.
(b) The motion shall be filed within 15 days of the issuance of the final
order that is the subject of the motion and must:
(1) Briefly and specifically allege material errors of fact or law and the relief sought; and
(2) Be confined to new questions raised by the determination or action ordered and upon which the moving party had no prior opportunity to submit arguments.
(c) Upon filing a motion for reconsideration, the underlying Commission order is not deemed to be final for purposes of 39 U.S.C. 3663 until final disposition of the motion.
[87 FR 43214, July 20, 2022]
§ 3010.170
Information requests.
(a) An information request is an informal discovery mechanism used at the discretion of the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, or a presiding officer to obtain information that is likely to materially assist the Commission in the conduct of its proceedings, in the preparation of its reports, or in the performance of its functions under title 39 of the United States Code.
(b) Information requests may be used to:
(1) Require the Postal Service in any proceeding, or any party to a Commission hearing on the record, to provide any information, and associated documents or things in its possession or control, or any information, and any associated documents or things that it can obtain through reasonable effort and expense; or
(2) Request that any person other than the Postal Service or a party to a Commission hearing on the record provide any information, and any associated documents or things that it can obtain through reasonable effort and expense.
(c) Information that can be sought by information request includes, but is not limited to, explanations, confirmations, factual descriptions, data, documents, and other materials. Documents refer to hard copy or electronic conveyance of information and may be stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation into a reasonably usable form. Documents include, but are not limited to, writings, notes, graphs, charts, data files, emails, drawings, photographs, and images. Materials include all matter, other than documents, that convey information.
(d) Information requests shall describe the information, documents, or things sought; shall briefly explain the reason for the request; and shall specify a date by which the response(s) shall be due.
(e) Any person may request the issuance of an information request by motion. The motion shall list the information, documents, or things sought; shall explain the reasons the information request should be issued; and shall demonstrate why the information sought is relevant and material to the Commission's duties under title 39 of the United States Code. Upon consideration of the motion and any responses, the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, or presiding officer may issue an information request that includes some or all of the proposed questions or modified versions of some or all of the proposed questions. Motions that do not result in the issuance of an information request prior to the Commission's final decision in the docket shall be deemed denied.

# Subpart E—Proceedings Using Notice and Comment Procedures
§ 3010.200
Applicability.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Commission shall conduct proceedings in conformance with the notice and comment procedures of this subpart whenever:
(1) The Commission is considering the issuance, amendment, or repeal of any Commission rule or regulation;
(2) The Commission is seeking information to inform potential future Commission action with or without the issuance of a final decision; or
(3) The Commission in the exercise of its discretion determines it is appropriate.
(b) Unless the Commission orders otherwise, this subpart shall not apply to proceedings governed by subpart F of this part (Proceedings with an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record). This subpart also shall not apply to the following parts of subchapter D of
chapter III (Special Rules of Practice for Specific Proceeding Types) of this title: part 3020 (Rules Applicable to Requests for Changes in the Nature of Postal Services), part 3021 (Rules for Appeals of Postal Service Determinations to Close or Consolidate Post Offices), part 3022 (Rules for Complaints) of this chapter, part 3023 (Rules for Rate or Service Inquiries), and part 3024 (Special Rules for Complaints Alleging Violations of 39 U.S.C. 404a). This subpart shall not apply to any proceeding governed by §§ 3041.325, 3041.505(f), and 3041.505(g) (Competitive Negotiated Service Agreements) of this chapter.
[85 FR 9620, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3010.201
Initiation of a proceeding.
(a) The Commission may on its own motion initiate a proceeding under this subpart by issuing a notice and order initiating proceeding pursuant to § 3010.151.
(b)(1) Any person may request the initiation of a proceeding under this subpart by filing a petition with the Commission pursuant to the filing requirements of subpart B of this part. The petition shall:
(i) Provide the name, address, phone number and other pertinent contact information of the requesting person;
(ii) Identify the subject matter of the petition;
(iii) Provide specific proposals, including specific language, in regard to the subject matter of the petition;
(iv) Provide all facts, views, arguments, and data deemed to support the action requested; and
(v) Describe the impact of the proposal on the person filing the petition, the Postal Service, the mailing community, and the Commission, as applicable.
(2) Upon consideration of the petition, the Commission in its discretion may initiate a proceeding under this subpart by issuing a notice and order initiating proceeding pursuant to § 3010.151, reject the petition, or defer a decision whether to grant or reject the petition. The Commission shall provide an explanation for the rejection or delay in consideration of any petition.
(c) Subparts A, B, C, and D of this part apply to the initiation and conduct of proceedings under this subpart E.
§ 3010.202
Participation in notice and comment proceedings.
(a)
Comments.
The primary method for participating in notice and comment proceedings is through the filing of comments in accordance with § 3010.140. The notice and order initiating proceeding filed pursuant to § 3010.151 shall provide the deadline for filing comments, and if provided for, reply comments.
(b)
Information requests.
The Commission, Chairman, or presiding officer may in its or their own discretion or, if requested by an interested person by motion, issue information requests pursuant to § 3010.170.
(c)
Technical conferences.
The Commission, Chairman, or presiding officer may in its or their own discretion or, if requested by an interested person by motion, convene one or more off the record technical conferences to consider the matters being considered.
(d)
Oral presentations.
The Commission, Chairman, or presiding officer may in its or their own discretion or, if requested by an interested person by motion, permit oral presentations regarding the matters being considered.
(e)
Other procedures.
The Commission, the Chairman, or presiding officer may order additional procedures as appropriate.
§ 3010.203
Commission action.
(a) The Commission shall consider all relevant comments and material of record before taking any final action. Any final decision which includes the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule or regulation, shall, at a minimum, publish the final rule or regulation in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Any issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule or regulation will be made effective not less than 30 days from the time it is published in the
Federal Register
except as otherwise specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If the order issuing, amending, or repealing a rule does not specify an effective date, the effective date shall be 30 days after the date on which the
Commission's order is published in the
Federal Register,
unless a later date is required by statute or is otherwise specified by the Commission.
(c) For good cause shown by publication with the rule, any issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule may be made effective in less than 30 days from the time the Commission's order is published in the
Federal Register
.
(d) Rules involving any military, naval or foreign affairs function of the United States; matters relating to agency management or personnel, public property, loans, grants, benefits or contracts; rules granting or recognizing exemption or relieving restriction; rules of organization, procedure or practice; or interpretative rules; and statements of policy may be made effective without regard to the 30-day requirement.

# Subpart F—Proceedings With an Opportunity for a Hearing on the Record.
§ 3010.300
Applicability.
The Commission shall conduct proceedings on the record with the opportunity for a hearing subject to this subpart whenever:
(a) The Commission determines that a complaint filed under part 3022 of this chapter raises one or more material issues of fact or law in accordance with § 3022.30 of this chapter and a proceeding on the record with the opportunity for a hearing is necessary;
(b) The Commission determines that the streamlined procedures in part 3020 of this chapter applicable to a Postal Service request to change the nature of postal services which will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis are not appropriate; or
(c) The Commission in the exercise of its discretion determines it is appropriate.
§ 3010.301
Notice of proceeding.
Whenever the Commission determines that a proceeding will be held on the record with an opportunity for a hearing under this part, it shall publish notice of the proceeding in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 3010.151.
§ 3010.302
Prehearing conferences.
(a)
Initiation and purposes.
The Commission or the presiding officer, if one has been appointed, may direct the parties in a proceeding to appear for a prehearing conference for the purposes of considering all possible ways of expediting the proceeding, including those in paragraph (e) of this section. Prehearing conference procedures shall be rigorously pursued by all parties.
(b)
Who presides.
The presiding officer, if one has been designated, shall preside over prehearing conferences. If a presiding officer has not been designated or is otherwise unavailable for a prehearing conference, then the ranking Commissioner in attendance shall be considered the presiding officer for that conference. The presiding officer shall open and close each prehearing conference session and shall be responsible for controlling the conduct of the conference.
(c)
Informal off-the-record procedures.
In order to make the prehearing conference as effective as possible, the presiding officer may direct that conferences be held off the record, without the presiding officer present. Informal off-the-record conferences shall be presided over by the Public Representative or such other person as the parties may select. At off-the-record conferences, parties shall be expected to reach agreement on those matters, which will expedite the proceeding, including the matters specified in the notice of the prehearing conference, in the ruling of the presiding officer directing that the off-the-record conference be held, and in paragraph (e) of this section. A report on the results of off-the-record conferences shall be made to the presiding officer on the record at a time specified by the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall then determine the further prehearing procedures, if any, to be followed.
(d)
Required preparation and cooperation of all parties.
All parties in any proceeding before the Commission are required and expected to come to prehearing conferences fully prepared to discuss in detail and resolve all matters, such as those specified in paragraph (e) of this section, in the notice of the prehearing conference, and in
such other notice or agenda as may have been issued by the Commission or the presiding officer. All parties are required and expected to cooperate fully at all stages of the proceeding to achieve these objectives through thorough advance preparation for the prehearing conference, including informal communications between the parties, requests for discovery and appropriate discovery procedures at the earliest possible time and no later than at the prehearing conference, and the commencement of preparation of evidence and cross-examination. The failure of any party to appear at the prehearing conference or to raise any matters that could reasonably be anticipated and resolved at the prehearing conference shall not be permitted to unduly delay the progress of the proceeding and shall constitute a waiver of the rights of the party with regard thereto, including all objections to the agreements reached, actions taken, or rulings issued by the presiding officer with regard thereto.
(e)
Matters to be pursued.
At the prehearing conference, the presiding officer and the parties shall consider and resolve such matters as:
(1) The definition and simplification of the issues, including any appropriate explanation, clarification, or amendment of any proposal, filing, evidence, complaint or other pleading filed by any party;
(2) Arrangements for timely completion of discovery from the Postal Service or any other party of information regarding any issues in the proceeding, prior filings, evidence or pleadings of any party;
(3) Procedures for timely discovery with regard to any future evidentiary filings of any party;
(4) Stipulations, admissions or concessions as to evidentiary facts, and agreements as to documentary matters, exhibits and matters of official notice, which will avoid unnecessary proof or dispute;
(5) The possible grouping of parties with substantially like interests for purposes of presenting evidence, making and arguing motions and objections, cross-examining witnesses, filing briefs, and presenting oral argument to the Commission or presiding officer;
(6) Disclosure of the number, identity and qualifications of witnesses, and the nature of their testimony, particularly with respect to the policies of the Act and, as applicable according to the nature of the proceeding;
(7) Limitation of the scope of the evidence and the number of witnesses in order to eliminate irrelevant, immaterial, or cumulative and repetitious evidence;
(8) Procedures to direct and control the use of discovery prior to the hearing and submission of written testimony and exhibits on matters in dispute so as to restrict to a bare minimum the amount of hearing time required for oral cross-examination of witnesses;
(9) Division of the proceeding where practicable into two or more phases for separate and, if advisable, simultaneous hearings;
(10) Establishment of dates for the submission and service of such written testimony and exhibits as may be appropriate in advance of the hearing;
(11) The order of presentation of the evidence and cross-examination of witnesses so that the hearing may proceed in the most expeditious and orderly manner possible; and
(12) All other matters which would aid in an expeditious disposition of the proceeding, including consent of the parties to the conduct of the entire proceedings off the record.
(f)
Rulings by presiding officer.
(1) The presiding officer at a prehearing conference, shall, irrespective of the consent of the parties, dispose of by ruling:
(i) Any of the procedural matters itemized in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii) Such other procedural matters on which the presiding officer is authorized to rule during the course of the hearing if ruling at this stage would expedite the proceeding.
(2) Either on the record at the conclusion of such prehearing conference, or by order issued shortly thereafter, the presiding officer shall state the agreements reached by the parties, the actions taken, and the rulings made by the presiding officer. Such rulings shall control the subsequent course of the proceedings unless modified during the hearing to prevent manifest injustice.
§ 3010.303
Hearing format.
(a) In any case noticed for a proceeding to be determined on the record, the Commission or the presiding officer, if one has been appointed, may determine whether to hold a public hearing, or to hold a hearing by written submission of material only. A public hearing may be held if a hearing is requested by any party to the proceeding or if the Commission determines that a hearing is in the public interest. Generally, public hearings provide an opportunity for oral cross-examination of witnesses whereas hearings held by written submission of material only do not.
(b) Once established, requests to change the hearing format may be proposed by motion, or by the Commission's or presiding officer's own motion.
(c) Only representatives of the Commission, parties that have intervened in a proceeding, or persons intending to intervene prior to the deadline for notices of intervention may participate in a public hearing. However, public hearings are generally open to the public for observation. Public hearings may be closed to the public for good cause, or when confidential material is being presented.
§ 3010.304
Scheduling order.
(a)
When issued.
Upon consideration of the outcome of the prehearing conference, if held, and a determination of the need for a public hearing, the Commission, or the presiding officer if one has been appointed, shall issue a scheduling order. The scheduling order may be combined with any other order or ruling that the Commission or the presiding officer may issue. The scheduling order may be periodically modified as warranted.
(b)
Content of scheduling order.
The content of the scheduling order shall be tailored to the specifics of the matter before the Commission, including any requirement for a public hearing. The Commission or the presiding officer shall consider scheduling the following:
(1) A deadline for conclusion of discovery on proponent's direct case;
(2) A deadline to request oral cross-examination of proponent's witnesses;
(3) A deadline for designation of written cross-examination on proponent's direct case;
(4) The time and date for a public hearing on proponent's direct case, or the date and procedures for entering a proponent's direct case into evidence in a hearing by written submission of material only;
(5) A deadline for parties other than the proponent to file testimony in support of, or in rebuttal to, the proponent's direct case;
(6) A deadline for conclusion of discovery on testimony supporting or rebutting the proponent's direct case;
(7) A deadline to request oral cross-examination of other parties' witnesses;
(8) A deadline for designation of written cross-examination on other parties' testimony;
(9) The time and date for a public hearing on other parties' testimony, or the date and procedures for entering other parties' testimony in a hearing by written submission of material only;
(10) A deadline for the proponent to file surrebuttal testimony to other parties' direct cases;
(11) A deadline for conclusion of discovery on any proponent's surrebuttal rebuttal testimony;
(12) A deadline to request oral cross-examination of proponent's surrebuttal witnesses;
(13) A deadline for designation of written cross-examination on proponent's surrebuttal testimony;
(14) The time and date for a public hearing on a proponent's surrebuttal testimony, or the date and procedures for entering a proponent's surrebuttal testimony in a hearing by written submission of material only;
(15) A deadline for filing briefs;
(16) A deadline for filing reply briefs; and
(17) A deadline for requesting oral argument.
(c)
Witness availability.
Parties shall promptly file notice of potential witness unavailability to appear at any public hearing as soon as known. Witness unavailability will be considered when establishing the initial, or any subsequent, procedural schedules. Once the initial scheduling order is issued,
but no later than ten calendar days prior to a scheduled hearing, parties may file notice of preferences for dates and times of witness appearance at any public hearing.
(d)
Subsequent scheduling of public hearings.
At the adjournment of any public hearing (including prehearing conferences), the Commission, or the presiding officer if appointed, shall announce when the hearing will reconvene. If an announcement is not made, the Commission or the presiding officer shall announce the time, date, and location of the subsequent hearing, or prehearing conference in writing by notice, order, or presiding officer ruling.
§ 3010.310
Discovery—general policy.
(a) Sections 3010.311 through 3010.313 allow discovery reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence during a proceeding noticed for hearing on the record. In general, discovery against a party will be scheduled to end prior to the receipt into evidence of that party's direct case. An exception to this procedure shall operate in all proceedings set for hearing when a party needs to obtain information (such as operating procedures or data) available only from the Postal Service. Such discovery requests are permissible only for the purpose of the development of rebuttal testimony and may be made up to 20 days prior to the filing date for final rebuttal testimony.
(b) The discovery procedures set forth in §§ 3010.311 through 3010.313 are not exclusive. Parties are encouraged to engage in informal discovery whenever possible to clarify exhibits and testimony. The results of these efforts may be introduced into the record by stipulation, by supplementary testimony or exhibit, by presenting selected written interrogatories and answers for adoption by a witness at the hearing, or by other appropriate means. In the interest of reducing motion practice, parties also are expected to use informal means to clarify questions and to identify portions of discovery requests considered overbroad or burdensome.
(c) If a party or an officer or agent of a party fails to obey an order of the Commission or the presiding officer to provide or permit discovery pursuant to §§ 3010.311 through 3010.313, the Commission or the presiding officer may make such orders in regard to the failure as are just, and among others, may direct that the matters regarding which the order was made or any other designated facts shall be taken to be established for the purposes of the proceeding in accordance with the claim of the parties obtaining the order, or prohibit the disobedient party from introducing designated matters in evidence, or strike the evidence, complaint or pleadings or parts thereof.
§ 3010.311
Interrogatories for purpose of discovery.
(a)
Service and contents.
In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any party may propound to any other party in a proceeding written, sequentially numbered interrogatories, by witness, requesting non-privileged information relevant to the subject matter and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in such proceeding, to be answered by the party served, who shall furnish such information as is available to the requesting party. A party through interrogatories may require any other party to identify each person whom the other party expects to call as a witness at the hearing and to state the subject matter on which the witness is expected to testify. The party propounding the interrogatories shall file them with the Commission and serve them on the answering party. Follow-up interrogatories to clarify or elaborate on the answer to an earlier discovery request may be filed after the initial discovery period ends. They must be filed within seven days of receipt of the answer to the previous interrogatory unless extraordinary circumstances are shown.
(b)
Answers.
Answers to discovery requests shall be prepared so that they can be incorporated as written cross-examination. Each answer shall begin on a separate page, identify the individual responding and the relevant testimony number, if any, the party who asked the question, and the number and text of the question. Each interrogatory shall be answered separately
and fully in writing, unless it is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated in the manner prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section. The party responding to the interrogatories shall file the answers with the Commission and serve them on the requesting party within 14 days of the filing of the interrogatories or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer, but before the conclusion of the hearing.
(c)
Objections.
In the interest of expedition, the grounds for every objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If an objection is made to part of an interrogatory, the part shall be specified. A party claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. A party claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer the interrogatory, providing estimates of cost and work hours required, to the extent possible. An interrogatory otherwise proper is not necessarily objectionable because an answer would involve an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to fact, but the Commission or presiding officer may order that such an interrogatory need not be answered until a prehearing conference or other later time. Objections shall be filed with the Commission and served on the requesting party within ten days of the filing of the interrogatories. Any ground not stated in a timely objection is waived unless excused by the Commission or presiding officer for good cause shown.
(d)
Motions to compel responses to discovery.
Motions to compel a more responsive answer, or an answer to an interrogatory to which an objection was interposed, should be filed within 14 days of the answer or objection to the discovery request. The text of the discovery request, and any answer provided, should be provided as an attachment to the motion to compel. Parties who have objected to interrogatories which are the subject of a motion to compel shall have seven days to answer. Answers will be considered supplements to the arguments presented in the initial objection.
(e)
Compelled answers.
The Commission, or the presiding officer, upon motion of any party to the proceeding, may compel a more responsive answer, or an answer to an interrogatory to which an objection has been raised if the objection is overruled, or may compel an additional answer if the initial answer is found to be inadequate. Such compelled answers shall be filed with the Commission and served on the compelling party within seven days of the date of the order compelling an answer or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer, but before the conclusion of the hearing.
(f)
Supplemental answers.
The individual or party who has answered interrogatories is under the duty to seasonably amend a prior answer if the individual or party obtains information upon the basis of which the individual or party knows that the answer was incorrect when made or is no longer true. Parties shall serve supplemental answers to update or to correct responses whenever necessary, up until the date the answer could have been accepted into evidence as written cross-examination. Parties filing supplemental answers shall indicate whether the answer merely supplements the previous answer to make it current or whether it is a complete replacement for the previous answer.
(g)
Orders.
The Commission or the presiding officer may order that any party or person shall answer on such terms and conditions as are just and may for good cause make any protective order, including an order limiting or conditioning interrogatories, as justice requires to protect a party or person from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.
§ 3010.312
Requests for production of documents or things for purpose of discovery.
(a)
Service and contents.
In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any party may serve on any other party to the proceeding a request to produce and permit the party making the request, or someone acting on behalf of the requesting
party or the requesting party's agent to inspect and copy any designated documents or things that constitute or contain matters, not privileged, that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and that are in the custody or control of the party to whom the request is addressed. The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity, and shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner of making inspection. The party requesting the production of documents or things shall file its request with the Commission and serve the request on the responding party.
(b)
Answers.
The party responding to the request shall file an answer with the Commission and serve the answer on the requesting party within 14 days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer. The answer shall state, with respect to each item or category, that inspection will be permitted as requested unless the request is objected to pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. The responding party may produce copies of documents or of electronically stored information in lieu of permitting inspection. Production must be completed no later than the time for inspection specified in the request unless good cause is shown.
(c)
Objections.
In the interest of expedition, the grounds for objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If an objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified. Any objection must state whether any responsive materials are being withheld on the basis of that objection. A party claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state with particularity the reasons for its applicability. A party claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer the request, providing estimates of cost and work hours required, to the extent possible. Objections shall be filed with the Commission and served on the requesting party within ten days of the request for production. The responding party may state an objection to a request to produce electronically stored information. If it objects to the form of the documents or things requested (or if no form was specified in the request), the responding party must state the form or forms it intends to use to produce the requested information.
(d)
Motions to compel requests for production of documents or things for purposes of discovery.
Motions to compel shall be filed within 14 days of the answer or objection to the discovery request. The text of the discovery request, and any answer provided, should be provided as an attachment to the motion to compel. Parties who have objected to requests for production of documents or things which are the subject of a motion to compel shall have seven days to answer. Answers will be considered supplements to the arguments presented in the initial objection.
(e)
Compelled answers.
Upon motion of any party to the proceeding to compel a response to discovery, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Commission or the presiding officer may compel production of documents or things to which an objection is overruled. Such compelled documents or things shall be made available to the party making the motion within seven days of the date of the order compelling production or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer, but before the conclusion of the hearing.
(f)
Orders and rulings.
The Commission or the presiding officer may direct any party or person to respond to a request for inspection on such terms and conditions as are just and may for good cause impose any protective conditions, including limitations or preconditions for inspections, as justice requires to protect a party or person from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.
§ 3010.313
Requests for admissions for purpose of discovery.
(a)
Service and content.
In the interest of expedition, any party may serve upon any other party a written request for the admission, for purposes of the
pending proceeding only, of any relevant, unprivileged facts, including the genuineness of any documents or exhibits to be presented in the hearing. Each requested admission shall be set forth separately and shall be deemed admitted unless within 14 days after the request is filed (or such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer) the party to whom the request is directed files a written answer denying the requested admission pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or objecting pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. The party requesting an admission shall file its request with the Commission and serve the request on the responding party.
(b)
Answers.
Answers that fail to admit a matter as requested shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission. When a party qualifies an answer or denies only a part of the admission requested, the party shall specify so much of the requested admission as is true and qualify or deny the remainder. A failure to admit or deny for lack of information or knowledge shall not be made unless the responding party states that it has made a reasonable inquiry and that information known or readily obtainable by the party is insufficient to enable the party to admit or deny. A party who answers a request for admission shall file its answer with the Commission and serve the answer on the requesting party.
(c)
Objections.
If an objection is made, the grounds for such objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If an objection is made to part of an item, the part to which an objection is made shall be specified. A party claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. A party claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer the request, providing estimates of cost and work hours required to the extent possible. Objections shall be filed with the Commission and served on the requesting party, within ten days of the request for admissions.
(d)
Motions to compel responses to requests for admissions.
The party who has requested an admission may move to determine the sufficiency of the answers or objections. Motions to compel a more responsive answer, or an answer to a request to which an objection was interposed, shall be filed within 14 days of the answer or objection to the request for admissions. The text of the request for admissions, and any answer provided, should be provided as an attachment to the motion to compel. Parties who have objected to requests for admissions which are the subject of a motion to compel shall have seven days to file a response. Responses will be considered supplements to the arguments presented in the initial objection.
(e)
Compelled answers.
The Commission or the presiding officer may compel answers to a request for admissions to which an objection has been raised if the objection is overruled. Such compelled answers shall be filed with the Commission and served on the requesting party within seven days of the date of the order compelling production or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or the presiding officer, but before the conclusion of the hearing. If the Commission or presiding officer determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this rule, it may order either that the matter is admitted or that an amended answer be filed.
§ 3010.320
Settlement conferences.
Any party to a proceeding may submit offers of settlement or proposals of adjustment at any time and may request a conference between the parties to consider such offers or proposals. The Commission or the presiding officer shall afford the parties appropriate opportunity prior to or during the hearing for conferences for the purpose of considering such offers or proposals as time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit. Unaccepted offers of settlement or adjustment and proposed stipulations not agreed to shall be privileged and shall not be admissible in evidence against any party claiming such privilege.
§ 3010.321
Hearings.
(a)
How convened.
(1) Hearings shall be convened by the issuance of a notice, order, or presiding officer's ruling that is published in the
Federal Register.
Only the first session of a public hearing need be noticed and published in the
Federal Register.
All subsequent sessions within a docket are to be considered part of the same hearing. If there is a prehearing conference, the prehearing conference is to be considered the first hearing session in that docket.
(2) At the adjournment of each hearing session, the presiding officer responsible for the conduct of that hearing session shall announce if and when the hearing will reconvene. If an announcement is not made at the adjournment of the hearing session, the Commission or presiding officer shall announce the time, date, and location of any subsequent hearing, or prehearing conference, in writing by notice, order, or presiding officer ruling.
(b)
Who presides.
The presiding officer, if designated, shall preside over a public hearing. If a presiding officer has not been designated or is otherwise unavailable for a hearing, then the ranking Commissioner in attendance shall be considered the presiding officer for that hearing. The presiding officer shall open and close each session of the hearing, and shall be responsible for controlling the conduct of the hearing.
(c)
Entering of appearances.
The presiding officer before whom the hearing is held will cause to be entered on the record all appearances together with a notation showing on whose behalf each such appearance has been made.
(d)
Witnesses.
All witnesses are expected to be available for public hearings. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, a witness need only attend a hearing on those days scheduled for entering that witness's testimony. Subject to the discretion and prior approval of the presiding officer, a witness may be excused from appearing at a hearing and may have the witness's written testimony and cross-examination entered into evidence by counsel.
(e)
Order of presentations.
(1) The proponent of a matter before the Commission shall present the proponent's direct case first. In matters initiated by the Postal Service, the Postal Service shall be considered the proponent. In complaint proceedings under section 3662 of the Act, the complainant shall be considered the proponent. The proponent also shall be provided an opportunity to respond to any rebuttal to the proponent's direct case. In all other instances, the Commission or the presiding officer shall determine the order of presentation.
(2) The order of presentations by parties other than the proponent shall be determined by the Commission or the presiding officer.
(3) The Commission or presiding officer shall announce the order of presentation of parties and individual witnesses prior to hearing sessions and shall issue such other procedural orders as may be necessary to assure the orderly and expeditious conclusion of the hearing. Parties may present their preferences for order of appearance to the Commission or the presiding officer orally at a hearing or by filing a notice prior to the scheduled hearing date. Parties who disagree with a proposed order of appearances may move for a revised order of appearances either orally at a hearing or by filing a written motion pursuant to § 3010.160.
(f)
Swearing in of witnesses.
(1) Witnesses attending a hearing whose testimony is to be taken shall be sworn, or shall affirm, before their testimony shall be deemed evidence in the proceeding or any questions are put to them. The witness shall be sworn by means of the following (or an equivalent): “Please raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear (or affirm), that the testimony that you are about to give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? Please state your full name.”
(2) The oath shall be given upon the first appearance of the witness providing testimony. Upon subsequent appearances, the witness is to be reminded by the presiding officer that the witness remains under oath for the duration of the proceeding.
(3) Witnesses not attending a hearing whose testimony is entered by counsel during a hearing shall attach a signed declaration that the testimony being
submitted is that of the witness. A declaration shall be included with each piece of written testimony, and each set of written cross-examination. The declaration shall state the following (or an equivalent): “Declaration of [witness name]. I, [witness name], hereby declare under penalty of perjury that: The [testimony, designated responses to written cross-examination] filed under my name were prepared by me or under my direction; and were I to [provide oral testimony, respond orally to the questions appearing in the interrogatories], my answers would be the same.”
(4) Hearings that are conducted by the written submission of testimony only shall also attach written declarations to testimony and cross-examination as described above.
(g)
Presentation of the evidence
—(1)
Presentations by parties.
Each party shall have the right to present evidence, cross-examine witnesses (limited to testimony adverse to the party conducting the cross-examination), and to present objections, motions, and arguments. The case-in-chief of parties other than the proponent shall be in writing and shall include the party's direct case and rebuttal, if any, to the initial proponent's case-in-chief. A party's presentation may be accompanied by a trial brief or legal memoranda. Legal memoranda on matters at issue are generally welcome at any stage of the proceeding. Parties will be given an opportunity to rebut presentations of other parties, including an opportunity for the initial proponent to present surrebuttal evidence. New affirmative matter (not in reply to another party's direct case) should not be included in rebuttal testimony or exhibits. When objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence before the Commission or the presiding officer are made, the grounds relied upon shall be stated. Formal exceptions to rulings are unnecessary.
(2)
Written testimony.
(i) Written testimony shall be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a hearing, or in writing when the hearing is conducted by the written submission of testimony only. When a party moves to enter testimony into the record, three hard copies of the document shall simultaneously be submitted to the Commission for the record. The copies are to be printed single-sided, and not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent.
(ii) Witnesses shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the written testimony they are sponsoring is their testimony and that it would be the same if given orally. The witness, or counsel, shall state the original filing date of the testimony and identify all subsequent filings that amended the original testimony. If there are any final corrections to the testimony, the corrections may be noted on the hard copies submitted to the Commission. However, the witness shall be required to file errata to the testimony within seven days of the hearing, making corrections only to the extent as identified during the hearing. Any other changes shall be requested separately by motion to amend the record.
(iii) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or part of a witness's written testimony prior to entering that testimony into the record. Objections that have not previously been made in writing at least 14 days prior to the hearing date shall be granted only under extraordinary circumstances.
(iv) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the testimony entered into the record as evidence. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, the written testimony shall not be copied into the hearing transcript.
(3)
Library references.
(i) Library references sponsored by a witness and associated with the witness's written testimony or written cross-examination may be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a public hearing, or in writing for a hearing that is conducted by the written submission of testimony only.
(ii) Witnesses shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the library reference is their library reference and to affirm that they are in fact sponsoring the library reference. If a witness inadvertently fails to verify and affirm that
the witness is sponsoring a library reference that is cited in written testimony or in response to written cross-examination, it will be presumed that the library reference is to be included in the record to the extent specified in the notice of the filing of the library reference.
(iii) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or any part of the library reference being entered into the record. Objections that have not been made in writing at least 14 days prior to the hearing date shall be granted only under extraordinary circumstances.
(iv) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the library reference be entered into the record as evidence. Unless ordered by the presiding officer, library references shall not be copied into the hearing transcript.
(4)
Written cross-examination.
(i) Written cross-examination will be utilized as a substitute for oral cross-examination whenever possible, particularly to introduce factual or statistical evidence. Written cross-examination may be offered in evidence by motion. The motion shall be made orally during a public hearing, or in writing for a hearing that is conducted by the written submission of testimony only. Written cross-examination proposed by parties other than the party associated with the witness shall be considered first, followed by that of the party of the witness.
(ii) Designations of written cross-examination should be filed with the Commission and served on the answering party no later than three working days before the scheduled appearance of a witness. Designations shall identify every item to be offered as evidence, listing the party who initially posed the discovery request, the witness and/or party to whom the question was addressed (if different from the witness answering), the number of the request and, if more than one answer is provided, the dates of all answers to be included in the record. (For example, “PR-T1-17 to USPS witness Jones, answered by USPS witness Smith (March 1, 1997) as updated (March 21, 1997)).” When a party designates written cross-examination, three hard copies of the documents to be included shall simultaneously be submitted to the Secretary. The documents are to be printed single-sided, and not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent. The Secretary shall prepare for the record a packet containing all materials designated for written cross-examination in a format that facilitates review by the witness and counsel.
(iii) A witness shall be provided an opportunity to verify that the written cross-examination is that of the witness and to assert that if the written cross-examination were being provided orally at the hearing it would be that of the witness. If there are any final corrections to the written cross-examination, the corrections may be noted on the hard copies before submission to the Commission.
(iv) Parties shall be provided an opportunity to object to all or any part of the written cross-examination prior to entering the testimony into the record.
(v) After resolution of all objections, the presiding officer shall order the written cross-examination entered into the record as evidence. The presiding office shall direct that the written cross-examination be copied into the hearing transcript.
(5)
Oral cross-examination.
(i) Oral cross-examination will be permitted for clarifying written cross-examination and for testing assumptions, conclusions, or other opinion evidence.
(ii) Notices of intent to conduct oral cross-examination should be filed three or more working days before the announced appearance of the witness and should include specific references to the subject matter to be examined and page references to the relevant direct testimony and exhibits. If no notices are filed, and the Commission or presiding officer has no other reason for the witness to appear, the Commission or the presiding officer, in their discretion, may excuse the witness from appearing at the hearing and direct that the witness's testimony be entered by counsel.
(iii) A party intending to use complex numerical hypotheticals, or to question using intricate or extensive cross-references, shall provide adequately
documented cross-examination exhibits for the record. Copies of these exhibits should be filed at least two full business days before the scheduled appearance of the witness. They may be filed online or delivered in hardcopy form to counsel for the witness, at the discretion of the party. When presented, examination exhibits are not to be considered record evidence. They are to be transcribed into the record for reference only. If adopted by the witness, the examination exhibit may be offered in evidence by motion.
(iv) At the conclusion of oral cross-examination, the witness shall be given an opportunity to consult with counsel. Counsel shall then be provided an opportunity to examine the witness for the purpose of clarifying statements previously made during oral cross-examination.
(h)
Institutional testimony.
(1) This paragraph (h) is applicable to testimony offered in evidence that is not sponsored by an individual witness. This typically occurs when discovery questions are answered by the institution, and not by an individual witness.
(2) When institutional responses are offered in evidence by any party, the responding party shall make available at the hearing an officer of the institution that has the authority to attest to the authenticity and truthfulness of the responses, and that has the knowledge to be subject to oral cross-examination in regard to the responses. Section 3010.321 applies as if the officer of the institution were an individual witness.
(i)
Limitations on presentation of the evidence.
The taking of evidence shall proceed with all reasonable diligence and dispatch, and to that end, the Commission or the presiding officer may limit appropriately the number of witnesses to be heard upon any issue, the examination by any party to specific issues, and the cross-examination of a witness to that required for a full and true disclosure of the facts necessary for the disposition of the proceeding and to avoid irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious testimony.
(j)
Motions during hearing.
After a hearing has commenced, a request may be made by motion to the presiding officer for any procedural ruling or relief desired. Such motions shall specify the ruling or relief sought, and state the grounds therefor and statutory or other supporting authority. Motions made during hearings may be stated orally upon the record, except that the presiding officer may require that such motions be reduced to writing and filed separately. Any party shall have the opportunity to answer or object to such motions at the time and in the manner directed by the presiding officer.
(k)
Rulings on motions.
The presiding officer is authorized to rule upon any such motion not formally acted upon by the Commission prior to the commencement of a prehearing conference or hearing where immediate ruling is essential in order to proceed with the prehearing conference or hearing, and upon any motion to the presiding officer filed or made after the commencement thereof, except that no motion made to the presiding officer, a ruling upon which would involve or constitute a final determination of the proceeding, shall be ruled upon affirmatively by the presiding officer except as a part of a presiding officer's intermediate decision. This section shall not preclude a presiding officer, within the presiding officer's discretion, from referring any motion made in hearing to the Commission for ultimate determination.
(l)
Transcript corrections.
Corrections to the transcript of a hearing should not be requested except to correct a material substantive error in the transcription made at the hearing. Any request to correct a transcript shall be by motion filed no later than seven days after the transcript, or notice of the availability of a confidential transcript, is posted to the Commission's website. Corrections or changes to actual testimony shall not be allowed.
§ 3010.322
Evidence—general.
(a)
Form and admissibility.
In all hearings, relevant and material evidence which is not unduly repetitious or cumulative shall be admissible. Witnesses whose testimony is to be taken shall be sworn, or shall affirm, before their testimony shall be deemed evidence in the proceeding or any questions are put to them.
(b)
Documentary material
—(1)
General.
Documents and detailed data and information shall be presented as exhibits. Exhibits should be self-explanatory. They should contain appropriate footnotes or narrative explaining the source of each item of information used and the methods employed in statistical compilations. The principal title of each exhibit should state what it contains or represents. The title may also contain a statement of the purpose for which the exhibit is offered; however, this statement will not be considered part of the evidentiary record. Where one part of a multi-part exhibit is based on another part or on another exhibit, appropriate cross-references should be made. Relevant exposition should be included in the exhibits or provided in accompanying testimony. Testimony, exhibits and supporting workpapers prepared for Commission proceedings that are premised on data or conclusions developed in a library reference shall provide the location of that information within the library reference with sufficient specificity to permit ready reference, such as the page and line, or the file and the worksheet or spreadsheet page or cell. Where relevant and material matter offered in evidence is embraced in a document containing other matter not material or relevant or not intended to be put in evidence, the party offering the same shall plainly designate the matter offered excluding the immaterial or irrelevant parts. If other matter in such document is in such bulk or extent as would unnecessarily encumber the record, it may be marked for identification, and, if properly authenticated, the relevant and material parts may be read into the record, or, if the Commission or presiding officer so directs, a true copy of such matter in proper form shall be received in evidence as an exhibit. Copies of documents shall be delivered by the party offering the same to the other parties or their attorneys appearing at the hearing, who shall be afforded an opportunity to examine the entire document and to offer in evidence in like manner other material and relevant portions thereof.
(2)
Status of library references.
Designation of material as a library reference and acceptance in the Commission's docket section do not confer evidentiary status. The evidentiary status of the material is governed by § 3010.321(g)(3).
(c)
Commission's files.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any matter contained in a report or other document on file with the Commission may be offered in evidence by specifying the report, document, or other file containing the matter so offered and the report or other document need not be produced or marked for identification.
(d)
Public document items.
Whenever there is offered in evidence (in whole or in part) a public document, such as an official report, decision, opinion or published scientific or economic statistical data issued by any of the Executive Departments (or their subdivisions), legislative agencies or committees, or administrative agencies of the Federal Government (including Government-owned corporations) and such document (or part thereof) has been shown by the offeror thereof to be reasonably available to the public, such document need not be produced or physically marked for identification, but may be offered in evidence as a public document item by clearly identifying the document and the relevant parts thereof.
(e)
Designation of evidence from other Commission dockets.
(1) Parties may request that evidence received in other Commission proceedings be entered into the record of the current proceeding. These requests shall be made by motion, shall explain the purpose of the designation, and shall identify material by page and line or paragraph number.
(2) In proceedings to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office conducted pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter, these requests must be made at least six days before the date for filing the party's direct case. Oppositions to motions for designations and/or requests for counter-designations shall be filed within three days. Oppositions to requests for counter-designations are due within two days.
(3) In all other proceedings subject to this section, these requests must, in
the absence of extraordinary circumstances, be made at least 28 days before the date for filing the party's direct case. Oppositions to motions for designations and/or requests for counter-designations shall be filed within 14 days. Oppositions to requests for counter-designations are due within seven days.
(4) In all proceedings subject to this section, the moving party must submit two copies of the identified material to the Secretary at the time requests for designations and counter-designations are made.
(f)
Form of prepared testimony and exhibits.
Unless the presiding officer otherwise directs, the direct testimony of witnesses shall be reduced to writing and offered either as such or as an exhibit. All prepared testimony and exhibits of a documentary character shall, so far as practicable, conform to the requirements of § 3010.124(a) and (b).
(g)
Copies to parties.
Except as otherwise provided in these rules, copies of exhibits shall be furnished to the presiding officer and to the parties or counsel during a hearing, unless the presiding officer otherwise directs.
(h)
Reception and ruling.
The presiding officer shall rule on the admissibility of evidence and otherwise control the reception of evidence so as to confine it to the issues in the proceeding.
(i)
Offers of proof.
Any offer of proof made in connection with any ruling of the presiding officer rejecting or excluding proffered oral testimony shall consist of a statement of the substance of the evidence which counsel contends would be adduced by such testimony; and if the excluded evidence consists of evidence in documentary or written form, or of reference to documents or records, a copy of such evidence shall be marked for identification and shall constitute the offer of proof.
(j)
Official notice of facts.
Official notice may be taken of such matters as might be judicially noticed by the courts of the United States or of any other matter peculiarly within the knowledge of the Commission as an expert body. Any party shall, on timely request, be afforded an opportunity to show the contrary.
§ 3010.323
Evidence—introduction and reliance upon studies and analyses.
(a)
Statistical studies.
All statistical studies offered in evidence in hearing proceedings or relied upon as support for other evidence shall include a comprehensive description of the assumptions made, the study plan utilized, the procedures undertaken, and references from the academic literature supporting the procedures undertaken. Machine-readable data files, program files, workbooks, and all other necessary materials to enable independent replication of the results or program output if requested by the Commission or parties shall be provided in the form of a compact disk or other media or method approved in advance by the Secretary. Where a computer analysis is employed to obtain the result of a statistical study, all of the submissions required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be furnished, upon request. In addition, for each of the following types of statistical studies, the following information should be provided:
(1)
Market research.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) A clear and detailed description of the sample, observational, and data preparation designs, including definitions of the target population, sampling frame, units of analysis, questionnaires or data collection instruments, survey variables, and the possible values;
(ii) An explanation of methodology for the production and analysis of the major survey estimates and associated sampling errors;
(iii) A presentation of response, coverage and editing rates, and any other potential sources of error associated with the survey's quality assurance procedures;
(iv) A discussion of data comparability over time and with other data sources;
(v) A complete description and assessment of the effects of all editing and imputation employed;
(vi) Identification of all applicable statistical models considered and the reasons the model based procedures and/or models were selected over other models or procedures, when model-based procedures are employed; and
(vii) An explanation of all statistical tests performed and an appropriate set of summary statistics summarizing the results of each test.
(2)
Other sample surveys.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) A clear description of the survey design, including the definition of the universe under study, the sampling frame and units, and the validity and confidence limits that can be placed on major estimates; and
(ii) An explanation of the method of selecting the sample and the characteristics measured or counted.
(3)
Experimental analyses.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) A complete description of the experimental design, including a specification of the controlled conditions and how the controls were realized; and
(ii) A complete description of the methods of making observations and the adjustments, if any, to observed data.
(4)
Econometric studies.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) A presentation of the economic theory and assumptions underlying the study;
(ii) A complete description of the econometric model(s) and the reasons for each major assumption and specification;
(iii) The definition of the variables selected and the justification for their selection;
(iv) For any alternative model whose computed econometric results influenced the choice of the preferred model, a statement of the reasons for rejecting that alternative, an identification of any differences between that alternative and the preferred model with respect to variable definitions, equation forms, data, or estimation methods, and, upon request, the computed econometric results for that alternative;
(v) A reference to a detailed description in a text, manual, or technical journal for every econometric technique used in the estimation process and the reasons for selecting the technique, or, in the alternative, a description and analysis of the technique that is sufficient for a technical evaluation;
(vi) Summary descriptions and source citations for all input data and, upon request, a complete listing of the data. Complete descriptions of any alterations, adjustments, or transformations made to the data as received from the original sources, and the reasons for making the alterations, adjustments, or transformations;
(vii) A complete report of the econometric results including, where applicable coefficient estimates, standard errors and t-values, goodness-of-fit statistics, other appropriate test statistics, the variance/covariance matrix of the estimates, and computed residuals for results computed from samples composed of fewer than 250 observations, and, upon request, other computed residuals; and
(viii) Descriptions of all statistical tests of hypotheses and the results of such tests.
(5)
All other studies involving statistical methodology.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) The formula used for statistical estimates;
(ii) The standard errors of each component estimated;
(iii) Test statistics and the description of statistical tests and all related computations, and final results; and
(iv) Summary descriptions of input data, and upon request the actual input data shall be made available at the offices of the Commission.
(b)
Computer analyses.
(1) In the case of computer studies or analyses which are being offered in evidence, or relied upon as support for other evidence, a foundation for the reception of such materials must be laid by furnishing a general description of the program that includes the objectives of the program, the processing tasks performed, the methods and procedures employed, and a listing of the input and output data and source codes (or a showing pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section as to why such codes cannot be so furnished) and such description shall be furnished in all cases. For the purpose of completing such foundation, the following additional items shall be deemed presumptively necessary and shall be furnished upon request of a party, the Commission, or the presiding officer, unless the presumption is overcome by an affirmative showing.
The following information shall be provided:
(i) For all input data, designations of all sources of such data, and explanations of any modifications to such data made for use in the program;
(ii) Definitions of all input and output variables or sets of variables;
(iii) A description of input and output data file organization;
(iv) For all source codes, documentation sufficiently comprehensive and detailed to satisfy generally accepted software documentation standards appropriate to the type of program and its intended use in the proceeding;
(v) All pertinent operating system and programming language manuals;
(vi) If the requested program is user interactive, a representative sample run, together with any explanation necessary to illustrate the response sequence;
(vii) An expert on the design and operation of the program shall be provided at a technical conference to respond to any oral or written questions concerning information that is reasonably necessary to enable independent replication of the program output; and
(viii) Computer simulation models offered in evidence or relied upon as support for other evidence, shall be bound by all applicable provisions of this paragraph (b) and the separate requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, to the extent that portions of the simulation model utilize or rely upon such studies. Information that compares the simulation model output results to the actual phenomena being modelled, using data other than those from which the model was developed, shall be separately identified and submitted as evidence supporting the test and validation of the simulation model. Separate statements concerning the model limitations, including limiting model design assumptions and range of data input utilized in model design, shall be provided. Where test and validation of the entire simulation model are not possible, test and validation information shall be provided for disaggregate portions of the model. If disaggregate testing and validation are not possible, separate statements to that effect and statements regarding operational experts' review of model validity shall be provided.
(2) Upon timely and otherwise proper request of a party, or
sua sponte,
the Commission or the presiding officer may rule that matters other than those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section are necessary to establish the foundation for reception of the evidence concerned and must be furnished.
(3) When the requestor is other than the Commission or the presiding officer, the cost of producing the material required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section, shall be borne by the requesting party unless otherwise ordered, for good cause shown by the requestor. When the Commission or the presiding officer is the requestor, it may assume or equitably allocate such costs for good cause shown by the requester.
(4) If the recipient of a request for materials pursuant to this paragraph (b) asserts that compliance with the request would conflict with patent, copyright, trade secret or contract rights applicable to the requested material, the recipient shall immediately notify the requestor and the presiding officer. If valid, the presiding officer shall devise means of accommodating such rights. Such means may include protective orders, including access under protective conditions to the computer facilities of the recipient of a request, making material available for inspection, compensation, or other procedures, according to the nature of the right affected by compliance with this paragraph (b). If the presiding officer determines that compensation is necessary to accommodate the affected right, the cost of compensation shall be borne in the same manner that paragraph (b)(3) of this section prescribes for bearing the costs referenced there. If such right cannot be accommodated by reasonable compensation, or by protective orders or other procedures, and, as a result, materials required by this paragraph (b) cannot be provided, the presiding officer shall determine, in the presiding officer's discretion, whether evidence that relies upon the materials not provided shall be admissible or afforded limited weight.
(c)
Other studies and analyses.
In the case of all studies and analyses offered in evidence in hearing proceedings or relied upon as support for other evidence, other than the kinds described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, there shall be a clear statement of the study plan, all relevant assumptions and a description of the techniques of data collection, estimation and/or testing. In addition, there shall be a clear statement of the facts and judgments upon which conclusions are based, together with an indication of the alternative courses of action considered and the steps taken to ensure the validity, accuracy, and reliability of the evidence. Tabulations of input data, workbooks, and all other materials necessary to replicate results shall be made available upon request at the offices of the Commission.
(d)
Expedition.
The party who offers studies or analyses in evidence shall expedite responses to requests made pursuant to this section for data or other information. Responses shall be served on the requesting party, and notice thereof filed with the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of § 3010.127 no later than 3 days after a request is made under § 3010.322(e)(2) or no later than 14 days after a request is made under § 3010.322(e)(3).
§ 3010.324
In camera orders.
(a)
Definition.
Except as hereinafter provided, documents and testimony made subject to
in camera
orders are not made a part of the public record, but are kept confidential, and only authorized parties, their counsel, authorized Commission personnel, and court personnel concerned with judicial review shall have access thereto. The right of the presiding officer, the Commission, and reviewing courts to disclose
in camera
data to the extent necessary for the proper disposition of the proceeding is specifically reserved.
(b)
In camera treatment of documents and testimony.
(1) Presiding officers shall have authority, but only in those unusual and exceptional circumstances when good cause is found on the record, to order documents or oral testimony offered in evidence whether admitted or rejected, to be placed
in camera.
The order shall specify the date on which
in camera
treatment expires and shall include:
(i) A description of the documents and testimony;
(ii) A full statement of the reasons for granting
in camera
treatment; and
(iii) A full statement of the reasons for the date on which
in camera
treatment expires.
(2) Any party desiring, for the preparation and presentation of the case, to disclose
in camera
documents or testimony to experts, consultants, prospective witnesses, or witnesses, shall make application to the presiding officer setting forth the justification therefor. The presiding officer, in granting such application for good cause found, shall enter an order protecting the rights of the affected parties and preventing unnecessary disclosure of information.
In camera
documents and the transcript of testimony subject to an
in camera
order shall be segregated from the public record and filed in a sealed envelope, bearing the title and docket number of the proceeding, the notation
“In Camera
Record under § 3010.323,” and the date on which
in camera
treatment expires.
(c)
Release of in camera information. In camera
documents and testimony shall constitute a part of the confidential records of the Commission. However, the Commission, on its own motion or pursuant to a request, may make
in camera
documents and testimony available for inspection, copying, or use by any other governmental agency. The Commission shall, in such circumstances, give reasonable notice of the impending disclosure to the affected party. However, such notice may be waived in extraordinary circumstances for good cause.
(d)
Briefing of in camera information.
In the submittal of proposed findings, briefs, or other papers, counsel for all parties shall make a good faith attempt to refrain from disclosing the specific details of
in camera
documents and testimony. This shall not preclude references in such proposed findings, briefs, or other papers to such documents or testimony including generalized statements based on their contents. To the extent that counsel consider it necessary to include specific
details of
in camera
data in their presentations, such data shall be incorporated in separate proposed findings, briefs, or other papers marked “confidential,” which shall be placed
in camera
and become a part of the
in camera
record.
§ 3010.325
Depositions.
(a)
When permissible.
The testimony of a witness may be taken by deposition when authorized by the Commission or the presiding officer on application of any party before the hearing is closed. An authorization to take the deposition of a witness will be issued only if:
(1) The person whose deposition is to be taken would be unavailable at the hearing;
(2) The deposition is deemed necessary to perpetuate the testimony of the witness; or
(3) The taking of the deposition is necessary to prevent undue and excessive expense to a party and will not result in undue delay or an undue burden to other parties.
(b)
Application.
An application for authorization to take testimony by deposition shall be filed with the Commission or the presiding officer and shall state:
(1) The name, identification, and post office address of the witness;
(2) The subject matter of the testimony.
(3) The time and place of taking the deposition;
(4) The name, identification, and post office address of the officer before whom the deposition is to be taken; and
(5) The reasons why the testimony of such witness should be taken by deposition.
(c)
Authorization.
If the application so warrants, the Commission or the presiding officer will issue and serve or cause to be served on the parties within a reasonable time in advance of the time fixed for taking testimony, an authorization for the taking of such testimony by deposition. Such authorization shall name the witness, the time, place, and officer before whom the deposition shall be taken, and shall specify the number of copies of the deposition to be submitted to the Commission. The authorization may include such terms and conditions as the Commission or the presiding officer deems fair and reasonable.
(d)
Qualifications of officer before whom taken.
Such deposition may be taken before a presiding officer or other authorized representative of the Commission, or any officer, not being counsel or attorney for any party or having an interest in the proceeding, authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is to be taken.
(e)
Oath and reduction to writing.
The officer before whom the deposition is to be taken shall put the witness on oath or affirmation and shall personally, or by someone acting under the officer's direction and in the officer's presence, record the examination of the witness. The examination shall be transcribed in the form specified in § 3010.124(a), signed by the witness, and certified in the usual form by the officer. The original of the deposition, together with the number of copies required by the authorization to be made by such officer, shall be forwarded by the officer to the Secretary by personal delivery or registered mail. Upon receipt, the Secretary shall hold the original for use in the hearing upon request by any party and shall make copies available for public inspection.
(f)
Scope and conduct of examination.
Unless otherwise directed in the authorization, the witness may be questioned regarding any matter which is relevant to the issues involved in the proceeding. Parties shall have the right for cross-examination and objection. In lieu of participation in the oral examination, parties may transmit written interrogatories to the officer who shall propound them to the witness.
(g)
Objections.
The officer before whom the deposition is taken shall not have the power to rule upon procedural matters or the competency, materiality, or relevancy of questions. Procedural objections or objections to questions of evidence shall be stated briefly and recorded in the deposition without argument. Objections not stated before the officer shall be deemed waived.
(h)
When a part of the record.
No portion of a deposition shall constitute a
part of the record in the proceeding unless received in evidence by the presiding officer. If only a portion of the deposition is offered in evidence by a party, any other party may require the party to introduce all of it which is relevant to the part introduced, and any party may offer in evidence any other portions.
(i)
Fees.
Witnesses whose depositions are taken and the officer taking the same shall be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the District Courts of the United States to be paid directly by the party or parties on whose application the deposition was taken.
§ 3010.330
Briefs.
(a)
When filed.
At the close of the taking of testimony in any proceeding, the Commission or the presiding officer shall fix the time for the filing and service of briefs, giving due regard to the timely issuance of the decision. In addition, subject to such consideration, due regard shall be given to the nature of the proceeding, the complexity and importance of the issues involved, and the magnitude of the record. In cases subject to a limitation on the time available to the Commission for decision, the Commission may direct each party to file its brief simultaneously with the filing of briefs by other parties. In cases where, because of the nature of the issues and the record or the limited number of parties involved, the filing of initial and reply briefs, or the filing of initial, answering, and reply briefs, will not unduly delay the conclusion of the proceeding and will aid in the proper disposition of the proceeding, the parties may be directed to file more than one brief and at different times rather than a single brief filed simultaneously with briefs filed by other parties. The Commission or presiding officer may also order the filing of briefs during the course of the proceeding.
(b)
Contents.
Each brief filed with the Commission shall be as concise as possible, within any page limitation specified by the Commission or the presiding officer, and shall include the following in the order indicated:
(1) A subject index with page references, and a list of all cases and authorities relied upon, arranged alphabetically, with references to the pages where the citation appears;
(2) A concise statement of the case from the viewpoint of the filing party;
(3) A clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing party as to the matter before the Commission and the decision to be issued;
(4) A discussion of the evidence, reasons, and authorities relied upon with exact references to the record and the authorities; and
(5) Proposed findings and conclusions with appropriate references to the record or the prior discussion of the evidence and authorities relied upon.
(c)
Incorporation by references.
Briefs before the Commission or a presiding officer shall be completely self-contained and shall not incorporate by reference any portion of any other brief, pleading, or document.
(d)
Excerpts from the record.
Testimony and exhibits shall not be quoted or included in briefs except for short excerpts pertinent to the argument presented.
(e)
Filing and service.
Briefs shall be filed with the Commission and served on all parties as required pursuant to subpart B of this part.
§ 3010.331
Proposed findings and conclusions.
The Commission or the presiding officer may direct the filing of proposed findings and conclusions with a brief statement of the supporting reasons for each proposed finding and conclusion.
§ 3010.332
Oral argument before the presiding officer.
In any case in which the presiding officer is to issue an intermediate decision, such officer may permit the presentation of oral argument when, in the presiding officer's opinion, time permits, and the nature of the proceedings, the complexity or importance of the issues of fact or law involved, and the public interest warrants hearing such argument. The presiding officer shall determine the time and place for oral argument, and may specify the issue or issues on which oral argument is to be presented, the order in which the presentations shall be made, and the amount of time allowed each party.
A request for oral argument before the issuance of an intermediate decision shall be made during the course of the hearing on the record.
§ 3010.333
Oral argument before the Commission.
(a)
When ordered.
In any proceeding before the Commission for decision, the Commission, upon the request of any party or on its own initiative, may order oral argument when, in the Commission's discretion, time permits, and the nature of the proceedings, the complexity or importance of the issues of fact or law involved, and public interest warrants such argument.
(b)
How requested.
Any party in a proceeding before the Commission for decision may request oral argument before the Commission by filing a timely motion. In a proceeding before the Commission on exceptions to an intermediate decision, such motion shall be filed no later than the date for the filing of briefs on exceptions.
(c)
Notice of oral argument.
The Commission shall rule on requests for oral argument, and if argument is allowed, the Commission shall notify the parties of the time and place set for argument, the amount of time allowed each party, and the issue or issues on which oral argument is to be heard. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, oral argument shall be limited to matters properly raised on the record and in the briefs before the Commission.
(d)
Use of documents at oral argument.
Charts, graphs, maps, tables, and other written material may be presented to the Commission at oral argument only if limited to facts in the record of the case being argued and if copies of such documents are filed with the Secretary and served on all parties at least seven days in advance of the argument. Enlargements of such charts, graphs, maps, and tables may be used at the argument provided copies are filed and served as required by this paragraph.
§ 3010.334
Commission decisions.
(a) At the conclusion of a proceeding on the record with the opportunity for a hearing, the Commission shall issue a final decision which either:
(1) Adopts an intermediate decision prepared by a presiding officer; or
(2) Rules upon the matters that are before the Commission, or provides explanation for why such rulings are not being provided.
(b) Commission decisions shall be based on the evidence entered into the record, and consider the arguments filed on brief. Argument provided in comments may further inform the Commission's decision, but have no evidentiary standing and are not required to be addressed in the final decision.
(c) An intermediate decision may be adopted by the Commission in whole or in part. When an intermediate decision is adopted in part, the Commission shall explain its decisions regarding both what is and is not adopted.
(d) When exceptions, or objections to exceptions, to an intermediate decision are filed pursuant to § 3010.336 by any party to the proceeding, the Commission shall consider and rule upon such exceptions, or objections to exceptions in its final decision.
(e) Commission decisions shall be filed in the docket and served on all parties. Commission decisions shall be part of the record of the proceeding.
§ 3010.335
Intermediate decisions.
(a) An intermediate decision shall be issued by the presiding officer which rules upon the matters that are before the Commission, or provides explanation for why such rulings are not being provided, in a proceeding on the record with the opportunity for a hearing when:
(1) The Commission is not sitting
en banc;
or
(2) The presiding office has been directed to issue an intermediate decision by Commission notice or order.
(b) Intermediate decisions shall be based on the evidence entered into the record, and shall consider the arguments filed on brief. Arguments provided in comments may further inform the presiding officer's decision, but are not required to be addressed in the intermediate decision.
(c) Intermediate decisions shall be filed in the docket and served on all parties. Intermediate decisions shall be part of the record of the proceeding.
(d) Intermediate decisions are subject to review by the Commission and subject to challenge by parties to the proceeding through the filing of exceptions pursuant to § 3010.336. After review and consideration of the exceptions filed, intermediate decisions may be adopted by the Commission, in whole or in part, as part of the final decision in the proceeding.
(e)(1) The Commission may, at any time, direct the omission of an intermediate decision and the certification of the record for the Commission's consideration sitting
en banc.
Parties to a proceeding may, by motion, request the omission of an intermediate decision and the certification of the record for the Commission's consideration sitting
en banc.
Motions shall specify:
(i) The concurrence of other parties; and
(ii) Whether opportunity for filing briefs or presenting oral argument to the Commission is desired or waived.
(2) Failure of any party to object to such request shall constitute a waiver of any objections. Motions shall be filed no later than the deadline for the filing of briefs. In either instance, the decision to omit an intermediate decision shall be based upon the consideration of the novelty of the matters before the Commission, and the timely and efficient operation of the docket.
§ 3010.336
Exceptions to intermediate decisions.
(a)
Briefs on exceptions and opposing exceptions.
Any party in a proceeding may file exceptions to any intermediate decision by first filing a notice of intent to file a brief on exceptions with the Commission within seven days after the date of issuance of the intermediate decision or such other time as may be fixed by the Commission. The brief on exceptions shall be filed with the Commission within 30 days after the date of issuance of the intermediate decision or such other time as may be fixed by the Commission. Any party to a proceeding may file a response to briefs on exceptions within 20 days after the time limited for the filing of briefs on exceptions or such other time as may be fixed by the Commission. No further response will be entertained unless the Commission, upon motion for good cause shown or on its own initiative, so orders.
(b)
Filing and contents.
Briefs on exceptions and briefs opposing exceptions shall be filed in accordance with § 3010.330. In briefs on exceptions, the discussion of evidence, reasons and authorities shall be specifically directed to the findings, conclusions and recommendations in the intermediate decision to which exception is taken. Briefs on exceptions should not include a discussion of evidence and authorities on matters and issues to which no exception to the intermediate decision is taken. Briefs on exceptions and briefs opposing exceptions need not contain a statement of the case to the extent that it was correctly stated in either the intermediate decision or the brief on exceptions of another party to which reference is made.
(c)
Failure to except results in waiver.
Any party who fails to except or object to any part of an intermediate decision in its brief on exceptions may not thereafter raise such exceptions or objections which shall be deemed to have been waived.
Pt. 3011

# PART 3011—NON-PUBLIC MATERIALS PROVIDED TO THE COMMISSION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3011.100
Applicability and Scope.
3011.101
Definitions.
3011.102
Treatment of non-public materials.
3011.103
Commission action to determine non-public treatment.
3011.104
Standard for public disclosure of materials claimed to contain non-public information.

# Subpart B—Submitting Non-public Materials and Seeking Non-public Treatment
3011.200
General requirements for submitting non-public materials and seeking non-public treatment.
3011.201
Application for non-public treatment.
3011.202
Redacted version of the non-public materials.
3011.203
Unredacted version of the non-public materials.
3011.204
Protections for any person other than the submitter with a proprietary interest.
3011.205
Non-public materials inadvertently submitted publicly.

# Subpart C—Seeking Access to Non-public Materials
3011.300
Eligibility for access to non-public materials.
3011.301
Motion for access to non-public materials.
3011.302
Non-dissemination, use, and care of non-public materials.
3011.303
Sanctions for violating protective conditions.
3011.304
Termination and amendment of access to non-public materials.
3011.305
Producing non-public materials in non-Commission proceedings.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 3011—Template Forms Protective Conditions Statement

# Subpart D—Seeking Public Disclosure of Non-public Materials
3011.400
Motion for disclosure of non-public materials.
3011.401
Materials for which non-public treatment has expired.
Appendix A to subpart D of part 3011—Template Form

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 407, 503, 504.

# Source:
83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 3011.100
Applicability and Scope.
(a)
Applicability.
The rules in this part apply whenever:
(1) The Postal Service claims that any materials it provides to the Commission in connection with any proceeding or other purpose under title 39 of the U.S. Code, contain non-public information;
(2) Any person other than the Postal Service claims that any materials it provides to the Commission contain non-public information;
(3) The Commission is in the process of determining the appropriate degree of confidentiality to be accorded materials identified by any person to contain non-public information in accordance with these rules; or
(4) The Commission is in the process of determining how to ensure appropriate confidentiality for materials identified to contain non-public information that is furnished to any person in accordance with these rules.
(b)
Scope.
Information includes, but is not limited to, explanations, confirmations, factual descriptions, and data. Document refers to a hard copy or electronic conveyance of information and may be stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation into a reasonably usable form. Documents include, but are not limited to, writings, notes, graphs, charts, data files, emails, drawings, photographs, and images. Things include all matter, other than documents, that convey information. Documents and things shall collectively be referred to as materials.
(c)
Exemption.
Except for the circumstances described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, the rules in this part do not apply to any non-public materials (and the non-public information contained therein) provided to the Commission by any person in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A).
(1) The following persons shall adhere to the requirements of § 3011.302 regarding the non-dissemination, use, and care of the non-public materials (and the non-public information contained therein) provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A).
(i) Members of the Commission;
(ii) Commission employees; and
(iii) Non-employees who have executed appropriate non-disclosure agreements (such as contractors, attorneys, or subject matter experts) assisting the Commission in carrying out its duties.
(2) Any person that discovers that non-public materials provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A) have been inadvertently included within materials that are accessible to the public shall follow the procedures of § 3011.205.
(3) Non-public materials provided to the Commission in connection with activities under 39 U.S.C. 407(b)(2)(A) are construed to exclude each of the following:
(i) Non-public materials provided by the Postal Service to the Commission pursuant to a subpoena issued in accordance with part 3013 of this chapter;
(ii) Non-public materials filed in response to an information request issued in accordance with § 3010.170 of this chapter;
(iii) Non-public materials filed in compliance with any applicable Postal Service reporting required under part 3050 or part 3055 of this chapter; and
(iv) Non-public materials filed in a Commission docket.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 37154, June 7, 2023]
§ 3011.101
Definitions.
(a)
Non-public materials
means any documents or things that are provided to the Commission and identified as containing non-public information. The Postal Service may claim that information that would be exempt from disclosure pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 410(c), 504(g), 3652(f), or 3654(f) is non-public information. Any person other than the Postal Service with a proprietary interest in the materials may claim that information that would be protectable under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c) is non-public information. Any person may claim that information that is exempt from public disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) is non-public information. Non-public materials cease to be non-public if the status has expired or has been terminated by the Commission pursuant to this part. Except as provided by § 3011.205, non-public materials cease to be non-public if the submitter publicly discloses the materials with the consent of each affected person with a propriety interest in the materials (if applicable). The cessation of non-public status applies to the particular document or thing and the particular information contained therein (in whole or in part, as applicable).
(b)
Submitter
means any natural or legal person, including the Postal Service, that provides non-public materials to the Commission and seeks non-public treatment in accordance with the rules of this part.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.102
Treatment of non-public materials.
(a) Except as described in part 3011 or part 3006 of this chapter, the Commission will neither disclose nor grant access to any non-public materials (and the non-public information contained therein).
(b) To accord appropriate confidentiality to non-public information and non-public materials during any stage of a proceeding before the Commission, or in connection with any other purpose under title 39 of the U.S. Code, the Commission may, based on Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c):
(1) Prohibit the public disclosure of the non-public information and non-public materials;
(2) Specify terms for public disclosure of the non-public information and non-public materials;
(3) Order a specific method for disclosing the non-public information and non-public materials;
(4) Restrict the scope of the disclosure of the non-public information and non-public materials as they relate to certain matters;
(5) Restrict who may access the non-public information and non-public materials;
(6) Require that a trade secret be revealed only in a specific and limited manner or to limited or specified persons; and
(7) Order other relief as appropriate including sealing a deposition or part of a proceeding.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.103
Commission action to determine non-public treatment.
(a) The inadvertent failure of a submitter to concomitantly provide all documents required by § 3011.200(a) does not prevent the Commission from according appropriate confidentiality to non-public information contained with any materials provided to the Commission. Information requests as described in § 3010.170 of this chapter, preliminary notices, or interim orders may be issued to help the Commission determine the non-public treatment, if any, to be accorded to the materials claimed by any person to be non-public.
(b) Upon motion by any person, the Commission may issue an order containing a description of and timeframe for the non-public treatment, if any, to be accorded to materials claimed by any person to be non-public.
(c) Upon its own motion, the Commission may issue notice of its preliminary determination concerning the appropriate degree of protection, if any, to be accorded to materials claimed by any person to be non-public. A response is due within seven calendar days of issuance of the preliminary determination, unless the Commission otherwise provides. No reply to a response shall be filed, unless the Commission otherwise provides. Pending the Commission's resolution of the preliminary determination, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment. The Commission will enter an order determining what non-public treatment, if any, will be accorded to the materials after the response period described in this paragraph has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in § 3011.104.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020; 88 FR 37154, June 7, 2023]
§ 3011.104
Standard for public disclosure of materials claimed to contain non-public information.
(a) In determining whether to publicly disclose materials claimed by the Postal Service to contain non-public information, the Commission shall balance the nature and extent of the likely commercial injury identified by the Postal Service against the public interest in maintaining the financial transparency of a government entity competing in commercial markets.
(b) In determining whether to publicly disclose materials in which the Commission determines any person other than the Postal Service has a proprietary interest, the Commission shall balance the interests of the parties consistent with the analysis undertaken by a federal court when applying the protective conditions appearing in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c).

# Subpart B—Submitting Non-Public Materials and Seeking Non-Public Treatment
§ 3011.200
General requirements for submitting non-public materials and seeking non-public treatment.
(a) Whenever providing non-public materials to the Commission, the submitter shall concomitantly provide the following: An application for non-public treatment that clearly identifies all non-public materials and describes the circumstances causing them to be submitted to the Commission in accordance with § 3011.201, a redacted (public) version of the non-public materials in accordance with § 3011.202, and an unredacted (sealed) version of the non-public materials in accordance with § 3011.203.
(b) Before submitting non-public materials to the Commission, if the submitter has reason to believe that any person other than the submitter has a proprietary interest in the information contained within the non-public materials, the submitter shall inform each affected person of the nature and scope of the submission to the Commission, including the pertinent docket designation(s) (to the extent practicable) and that the affected person may address any confidentiality concerns directly with the Commission.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.201
Application for non-public treatment.
(a)
Burden of persuasion.
An application for non-public treatment shall fulfill the burden of persuasion that the materials designated as non-public should be withheld from the public.
(b)
Contents of application.
An application for non-public treatment shall include a specific and detailed statement setting forth the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section:
(1) The rationale for claiming that the materials are non-public, including the specific statutory provision(s) supporting the claim, and an explanation justifying application of the provision(s) to the materials.
(2) A statement of whether the submitter, any person other than the submitter, or both have a proprietary interest in the information contained within the non-public materials, and the identification(s) specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section (whichever is applicable). For purposes of this paragraph, identification means the name, phone number, and email address of an individual.
(i) If the submitter has a proprietary interest in the information contained within the materials, identification of an individual designated by the submitter to accept actual notice of a motion related to the non-public materials or notice of the pendency of a subpoena or order requiring production of the materials.
(ii) If any person other than the submitter has a proprietary interest in the information contained within the materials, identification of each person who is known to have a proprietary interest in the information. If such an identification is sensitive or impracticable, an explanation shall be provided along with the identification of an individual designated by the submitter to provide notice to each affected person.
(iii) If both the submitter and any person other than the submitter have a proprietary interest in the information contained within the non-public materials, identification in accordance with both paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be provided. The submitter may designate the same individual to fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3) A description of the information contained within the materials claimed to be non-public in a manner that, without revealing the information at issue, would allow the Commission to thoroughly evaluate the basis for the claim that the information contained within the materials are non-public.
(4) Particular identification of the nature and extent of the harm alleged and the likelihood of each harm alleged to result from disclosure.
(5) At least one specific hypothetical, illustrative example of each alleged harm.
(6) The extent of the protection from public disclosure alleged to be necessary.
(7) The length of time for which non-public treatment is alleged to be necessary with justification thereof.
(8) Any other relevant factors or reasons to support the application.
(c)
Incorporation by reference.
If the material designated as non-public has been previously claimed to be non-public material by a prior application for non-public treatment, the submitter may incorporate by reference the prior application. Any application that incorporates by reference a prior application that is accessible through the Commission's website (
http://www.prc.gov
) shall state the date, docket number, and the name of the filer of the prior application. In all other circumstances, the application that incorporates by reference a prior application shall attach the prior application.
§ 3011.202
Redacted version of the non-public materials.
(a) Except as allowed under paragraph (b) of this section, the submitter shall use the graphical redaction (blackout) method to redact non-public information from the materials. The submitter shall blackout only the information that is claimed to be non-public.
(b) The submitter shall justify using any other redaction method. The application for non-public treatment shall state with particularity the competitive harm or practical difficulty alleged to result from using the blackout method. The submitter shall specifically identify any alterations made to the unredacted version, including the location and number of lines or pages removed.
(c) If electronic, the redacted version shall be filed in a searchable format, unless the submitter certifies that doing so would be impracticable.
§ 3011.203
Unredacted version of the non-public materials.
(a) Each page or portion of the unredacted version of the materials for which non-public treatment is sought shall be marked in a manner reasonably calculated to alert custodians to
the confidential nature of the materials.
(b) The Filing Online method that results in posting a document that is available to the public, which is accessible through the Commission's website (
http://www.prc.gov
) described under part 3010, subpart B of this chapter may not be used to submit the unredacted version of non-public materials.
(c) The filing of the unredacted version of the non-public materials shall be made in accordance with the following requirements.
(1) Except if using an alternative system approved by the Commission under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the unredacted version of the non-public materials shall be filed in a sealed envelope clearly marked “Confidential. Do Not Post on Web” to the Office of Secretary and Administration, Postal Regulatory Commission, 901 New York Avenue NW, Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001. The unredacted version of the non-public materials may not be password protected. Two copies of the unredacted version of a non-public document shall be filed using an electronic format such as compact discs (CDs), or digital video discs or digital versatile discs (DVDs) that shall be clearly marked “Confidential. Do Not Post on Web.” If making an electronic unredacted version of a non-public document is impracticable, two hard copies (paper) versions of the non-public document may be filed.
(2) The Secretary of the Commission has authority to approve the use of a secure alternative system to file non-public materials. The Secretary may set forth any minimum requirements associated with using an alternative system. If a filer using the alternative system fails to comply with any of the Secretary's requirements, the Secretary has discretion to revoke the filer's eligibility to use the alternative system or impose requirements specific to the filer as necessary to ensure secure transmission of non-public materials.
(d) The unredacted version of a spreadsheet shall display the formulas used and their links to related spreadsheets. The unredacted version of workpapers or data shall be submitted in a form, and be accompanied by sufficient explanation and documentation, to allow them to be replicated using a publicly available PC application.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.204
Protections for any person other than the submitter with a proprietary interest.
Any person other than the submitter with a proprietary interest in materials that have been or will be submitted to the Commission may address any confidentiality concerns directly with the Commission by seeking non-public treatment in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, responding to a motion for access to non-public materials in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part, or responding to a motion for disclosure of non-public materials in accordance with the requirements of subpart D of this part.
§ 3011.205
Non-public materials inadvertently submitted publicly.
(a) Any filer or person with a proprietary interest that discovers the inclusion of materials that could have been subject to a claim for non-public treatment are contained within a public filing made in accordance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter shall telephone Dockets personnel immediately to request that the non-public materials be removed from the publicly available materials. Upon receipt of that telephone request, Dockets personnel will remove from the publicly available materials those materials for which non-public treatment are being requested until the end of the next business day in order to provide the filer or person with a proprietary interest an opportunity to file an application for non-public treatment and the non-public materials in accordance with the requirements of this subpart. If any filer makes repeated use of this rule, the Secretary has discretion to impose additional requirements on this filer as necessary to ensure secure filing of non-public materials.
(b) Any submitter or person with a proprietary interest that discovers the inclusion of materials that could have been subject to a claim for non-public
treatment are contained within a publicly available submission made to the Commission in circumstances other than through a public filing made in accordance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter shall telephone the Commission personnel to whom the submission was directed immediately to request that the non-public materials be removed from the publicly available materials. Upon receipt of that telephone request, the Commission personnel will remove from the publicly available materials those materials for which non-public treatment are being requested until the end of the next business day in order to provide the submitter or person with a proprietary interest an opportunity to submit an application for non-public treatment and the non-public materials in accordance with the requirements of this subpart. If any submitter makes repeated use of this rule, the Secretary has discretion to impose additional requirements on this submitter as necessary to ensure secure submission of non-public materials.
(c) An application for non-public treatment made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall also clearly indicate if any special relief is sought. Examples of special relief include a request that any person not granted access to the materials under § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 perform any or all of the following actions:
(1) Immediately destroy or return all versions of the materials that are claimed to have been inadvertently submitted publicly;
(2) Refrain from disclosing or using the materials, and the information contained therein, that are claimed to be non-public; and
(3) Take reasonable steps to retrieve any materials, and the information contained therein, that are claimed to be non-public and were disclosed to any person not granted access to the materials under § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 prior to the submission of application for non-public treatment.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart C—Seeking Access to Non-Public Materials
§ 3011.300
Eligibility for access to non-public materials.
(a) The following persons may access non-public materials without an order issued pursuant to § 3011.301(e):
(1) Members of the Commission;
(2) Commission employees, including Public Representatives, carrying out their official responsibilities;
(3) Non-employees who have executed appropriate non-disclosure agreements (such as contractors, attorneys, or subject matter experts), assisting the Commission in carrying out its duties;
(4) Reviewing courts and their staffs; and
(5) Court reporters, stenographers, or persons operating audio or video recording equipment for such court reporters or stenographers at hearings or depositions.
(b) No person involved in competitive decision-making for any individual or entity that might gain competitive advantage from using non-public materials shall be granted access to non-public materials. Involved in competitive decision-making includes consulting on marketing or advertising strategies, pricing, product research and development, product design, or the competitive structuring and composition of bids, offers or proposals. It does not include rendering legal advice or performing other services that are not directly in furtherance of activities in competition with an individual or entity having a proprietary interest in the protected material.
(c) Any person not described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may request access to non-public materials as described in § 3011.301, for the purpose of aiding participation in a pending Commission proceeding (including compliance proceedings) or aiding the initiation of a proceeding before the Commission.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9642, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 48503, Aug. 31, 2021]
§ 3011.301
Motion for access to non-public materials.
(a)
Filing requirements.
A request for access to non-public materials shall be
made by filing a motion with the Commission. Any part of the motion revealing non- public information shall be filed in accordance with subpart B of this part. The motion shall be filed in the docket in which the materials were filed or in the docket in which the materials will be used; in all other circumstances, the motion shall be filed in the G docket for the applicable fiscal year.
(b)
Content requirements.
The motion shall:
(1) Identify the particular non-public materials to which the movant seeks access;
(2) Include a detailed statement justifying the request for access:
(i) If access is sought to aid participation in any pending Commission proceeding, the motion shall identify all proceedings (including compliance proceedings) in which the movant proposes to use the materials and how those materials are relevant to those proceedings, or
(ii) If access is sought to aid initiation of a proceeding before the Commission, the motion shall describe the subject of the proposed proceeding, how the materials sought are relevant to that proposed proceeding, and when the movant anticipates initiating the proposed proceeding;
(3) List all relevant affiliations, including employment or other relationship (including agent, consultant or contractor) with the movant, and whether the movant is affiliated with the delivery services, communications or mailing industries;
(4) Specify if actual notice of the motion has been provided to each person identified in the application pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2). If the motion states that actual notice has been provided, the motion shall identify the individual(s) to whom actual notice was provided, the date(s) and approximate time(s) of actual notice, the method(s) of actual notice (by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages), and whether the movant is authorized to represent that the motion (in whole or in part) has been resolved or is contested by the submitter or any other affected person;
(5) Attach a description of protective conditions completed and signed by the movant's attorney or non-attorney representative, who may use and modify the template Protective Conditions Statement in Appendix A to this subpart; and
(6) Attach a certification to comply with protective conditions executed by each person (and any individual working on behalf of that person) seeking access, who may use and modify the template Certification to Comply with Protective Conditions in Appendix A to this subpart.
(c)
Response.
If actual notice of the motion was provided in advance of the filing to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages, a response to the motion is due within three business days of the filing of the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides. In all other circumstances, a response to the motion is due within seven calendar days of filing the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
(d)
Reply.
No reply to a response shall be filed, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
(e)
Commission ruling.
The Commission may enter an order at any time after receiving a motion if the movant states that actual notice has been given to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) and that the movant is authorized to represent that the motion is uncontested. In all other circumstances, the Commission will enter an order determining if access will be granted after the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section has expired. If no opposition to the motion has been filed by the submitter or any person other than the submitter with a proprietary interest before the expiration of the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section, the Commission may issue an order granting access, subject to the agreed protective conditions. In determining whether to grant access to non-public materials, the Commission shall balance the interests of the parties consistent with the analysis undertaken by a Federal court when applying the
protective conditions appearing in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c). If access is granted, access shall commence following the issuance of the appropriate order setting forth all protective conditions.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9642, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.302
Non-dissemination, use, and care of non-public materials.
(a) No person who has been granted access to non-public materials in accordance with § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 may disseminate the materials or the information contained therein, in whole or in part, to any person not allowed access pursuant to § 3011.300 or § 3011.301.
(b) Persons with access to non-public materials under § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 shall use non-public materials only for the purposes for which the non-public materials are supplied.
(c) Persons with access to non-public materials under § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 shall protect the non-public materials from any person not granted access under § 3011.300 or § 3011.301 by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of these materials as those persons, in the ordinary course of business, would be expected to use to protect their own proprietary material or trade secrets and other internal, confidential, commercially sensitive, and privileged information.
[85 FR 9642, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.303
Sanctions for violating protective conditions.
(a) If a person who has been granted access to non-public materials under § 3011.301 violates the terms of the order granting access, the Commission may impose sanctions on the person who violated the order, the persons or entities on whose behalf the person was acting, or both. The sanctions may include any or all of the following:
(1) Dismissing the proceeding in whole or in part;
(2) Ruling by default against the person who violated the order or the persons or entities on whose behalf the person was acting;
(3) Revoking access to non-public materials;
(4) Restricting access to non-public materials in the future; or
(5) Such other sanctions, as deemed appropriate by the Commission.
(b) This rule does not prevent any person, including the Postal Service, whose interests are damaged by the violation of an order granting access subject to protective conditions, from pursuing any remedies available under the law against the person who violated the order, the persons or entities on whose behalf the person was acting, or both.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9642, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.304
Termination and amendment of access to non-public materials.
(a)
Termination of access.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, access to non-public materials granted under § 3011.301 terminates either when the Commission issues the final order or report concluding the proceeding(s) in which the participant who filed the motion seeking access represented that the non-public materials would be used, or when the person granted access withdraws or is otherwise no longer involved in the proceeding(s), whichever occurs first. For purposes of this paragraph, an order or report is not considered final until after the possibility of judicial review expires (including the completion of any Commission response to judicial review, if applicable).
(2) Upon termination of access, all non-public materials, and any duplicates, in the possession of each person (and any individual working on behalf of that person) granted access shall be destroyed or returned to the Commission. The participant who filed the motion seeking access shall file with the Commission a notice of termination of access and attach a certification of compliance with protective conditions executed by each person (and any individual working on behalf of that person) granted access to the non-public materials. The template Certification of Compliance with Protective Conditions and Termination of Access in Appendix A to this subpart may be used
and modified to comply with this requirement.
(b)
Amendment of access.
Any person may file a motion seeking to amend any protective conditions related to access of non-public materials, including extending the timeframe for which access is granted or expanding the persons to whom access is to be granted, in accordance with § 3011.301.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9643, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.305
Producing non-public materials in non-Commission proceedings.
(a) If a court or other administrative agency issues a subpoena or orders production of non-public materials that a person obtained under protective conditions ordered by the Commission, the target of the subpoena or order shall, within two days of receipt of the subpoena or order, notify each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) of the pendency of the subpoena or order to allow time to object to that production or to seek a protective order or other relief.
(b) Any person that has obtained non-public materials under protective conditions ordered by the Commission and seeks to disclose the non-public materials in a court or other administrative proceeding shall make a good faith effort to obtain protective conditions at least as effective as those set forth in the Commission order establishing the protective conditions.
(c) Unless overridden by the reviewing court or other administrative agency, protective conditions ordered by the Commission will remain in effect.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9643, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3011, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 3011—Template Forms Protective Conditions Statement
____________ (name of submitter of non-public materials) requests confidential treatment of non-public materials identified as ________ (non-confidential description of non-public materials) (hereinafter “these materials”) in Commission Docket No(s).________ (designation of docket(s) in which these materials were filed).
____________ (name of participant filing motion) (hereinafter “the movant”) requests access to these materials related to ________ (designation of docket(s) or description of proposed proceeding(s) in which these materials are to be used) (hereinafter “this matter”).
The movant has provided to each person seeking access to these materials:
○ This Protective Conditions Statement;
○ the Certification to Comply with Protective Conditions;
○ the Certification of Compliance with Protective Conditions and Termination of Access; and
○ the Commission's rules applicable to access to non-public materials filed in Commission proceedings (subpart C of part 3011 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations).
Each person (and any individual working on behalf of that person) seeking access to these materials has executed a Certification to Comply with Protective Conditions by signing in ink or by typing/s/before his or her name in the signature block. The movant attaches the Protective Conditions Statement and the executed Certification(s) to Comply with Protective Conditions to the motion for access filed with the Commission.
The movant and each person seeking access to these materials agree to comply with the following protective conditions:
In accordance with 39 CFR 3011.303, the Commission may impose sanctions on any person who violates these protective conditions, the persons or entities on whose behalf the person was acting, or both.
2. In accordance with 39 CFR 3011.300(b), no person involved in competitive decision-making for any individual or entity that might gain competitive advantage from using these materials shall be granted access to these materials. Involved in competitive decision-making includes consulting on marketing or advertising strategies, pricing, product research and development, product design, or the competitive structuring and composition of bids, offers or proposals. It does not include rendering legal advice or performing other services that are not directly in furtherance of activities in competition with an individual or entity having a proprietary interest in the protected material.
3. In accordance with 39 CFR 3011.302(a), a person granted access to these materials may not disseminate these materials in whole or in part to any person not allowed access pursuant to 39 CFR 3011.300(a) (Commission and court personnel) or 3011.301 (other persons granted access by Commission order) except in compliance with:
a. Specific Commission order,
b. Subpart B of 39 CFR 3011 (procedure for filing these materials in Commission proceedings), or
c. 39 CFR 3011.305 (production of these materials in a court or other administrative proceeding).
4. In accordance with 39 CFR 3011.302(b) and (c), all persons granted access to these materials:
a. Must use these materials only related to this matter; and
b. must protect these materials from any person not authorized to obtain access under 39 CFR 3011.300 or 3011.301 by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of these materials as those persons, in the ordinary course of business, would be expected to use to protect their own proprietary material or trade secrets and other internal, confidential, commercially sensitive, and privileged information.
5. The duties of each person granted access to these materials apply to all:
a. Disclosures or duplications of these materials in writing, orally, electronically, or otherwise, by any means, format, or medium;
b. Excerpts from, parts of, or the entirety of these materials;
c. Written materials that quote or contain these materials; and
d. Revised, amended, or supplemental versions of these materials.
6. All copies of these materials will be clearly marked as “Confidential” and bear the name of the person granted access.
7. Immediately after access has terminated pursuant to 39 CFR 3011.304(a)(1), each person (and any individual working on behalf of that person) who has obtained a copy of these materials must execute the Certification of Compliance with Protective Conditions and Termination of Access. In compliance with 39 CFR 3011.304(a)(2), the movant will attach the executed Certification(s) of Compliance with Protective Conditions and Termination of Access to the notice of termination of access filed with the Commission.
8. Each person granted access to these materials consents to these or such other conditions as the Commission may approve.
Respectfully submitted,
(signature of representative)
/s/
(print name of representative)
(address line 1 of representative)
(address line 2 of representative)
(telephone number of representative)
(e-mail address of representative)
(choose the appropriate response)
Attorney/Non-Attorney Representative for
(name of the movant)
You may delete the instructional text to complete this form. This form may be filed as an attachment to the motion for access to non-public materials under 39 CFR 3011.301(b)(5).

# Certification To Comply With Protective Conditions
____________ (name of submitter of non-public materials) requests confidential treatment of non-public materials identified as ________ (non-confidential description of non-public materials) (hereinafter “these materials”) filed in Commission Docket No(s). ________ (designation of docket(s) in which these materials were filed).
____________ (name of participant filing motion) requests that the Commission grant me access to these materials to use related to ________ (designation of docket(s) or description of proposed proceeding(s) in which these materials are to be used) (hereinafter “this matter”).
I certify that:
○ I have read and understand the Protective Conditions Statement and this Certification to Comply with Protective Conditions;
○ I am eligible to receive access to these materials because I am not involved in competitive decision-making for any individual or entity that might gain competitive advantage from using these materials; and
○ I will comply with all protective conditions established by the Commission.
(signature of individual receiving access)
/s/
(print name of individual receiving access)
(title of individual receiving access)
(employer of individual receiving access)
(name of the participant filing the motion)
(date)
You may delete the instructional text to complete this form. This form may be filed as an attachment to the motion for access to non-public materials under 39 CFR 3011.301(b)(6).

# Certification of Compliance with Protective Conditions and Termination of Access
____________ (name of submitter of non-public materials) requests confidential treatment of non-public materials identified as ________ (non-confidential description of non-public materials) (hereinafter “these materials”) filed in Commission Docket No(s). ________ (designation of docket(s) in which these materials were filed).
The Commission granted the request by________ (name of participant filing notice) to grant me access to these materials to use related to ________ (designation of docket(s) or description of proposed proceeding(s) in which these materials are to be used) (hereinafter “this matter”).
I certify that:
○ I accessed, maintained, and used these materials in accordance with the protective conditions established by the Commission;
○ Effective ________ (date), my access to these materials was terminated; and
○ Effective ________ (date), I no longer have any of these materials or any duplicates.
(signature of individual granted access)
/s/
(print name of individual granted access)
(title of individual granted access)
(employer of individual granted access)
(name of participant filing notice)
(date)
You may delete the instructional text to complete this form. This form should be filed as an attachment to the notice of termination of access to non-public materials under 39 CFR 3011.304(a)(2).
[85 FR 9643, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart D—Seeking Public Disclosure of Non-Public Materials
§ 3011.400
Motion for disclosure of non-public materials.
(a)
Application of this section.
This section applies to non-public materials during the initial duration of non-public status, up to ten years, and any non-public materials for which the Commission enters an order extending the duration of that status under § 3011.401(a).
(b)
Motion for disclosure of non-public materials.
Any person may file a motion with the Commission requesting that non-public materials be publicly disclosed. Any part of the motion revealing non-public information shall be filed in accordance with subpart B of this part. The motion shall justify why the non-public materials should be made public and specifically address any pertinent rationale(s) provided in the application for non-public treatment. The motion shall specify whether actual notice of the motion has been provided to each person identified in the application pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2). If the motion states that actual notice has been provided, the motion shall identify the individual(s) to whom actual notice was provided, the date(s) and approximate time(s) of actual notice, the method(s) of actual notice (by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages), and whether the movant is authorized to represent that the motion (in whole or in part) has been resolved or is contested by the submitter or any other affected person. The motion shall be filed in the docket in which the materials were filed or in the docket in which the materials will be used; in all other circumstances, the motion shall be filed in the G docket for the applicable fiscal year.
(c)
Response.
If actual notice of the motion was provided in advance of the filing to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages, a response to the motion is due within three business days of the filing of the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides. In all other circumstances, a response to the motion is due within seven calendar days of filing the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
(d)
Reply.
No reply to a response shall be filed, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
(e)
Non-public treatment pending resolution.
Pending the Commission's resolution of the motion, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment.
(f)
Commission ruling.
The Commission may enter an order at any time after receiving a motion if the movant states that actual notice has been given to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) and that the movant is authorized to represent that the motion is uncontested. In all other circumstances, the Commission will enter an order determining what non-public treatment, if any, will be accorded to the materials after the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in § 3011.104.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9644, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3011.401
Materials for which non-public treatment has expired.
(a)
Expiration of non-public treatment.
Ten years after the date of submission to the Commission, non-public materials shall lose non-public status unless otherwise provided by the Commission.
(b)
Request for Disclosure of Materials for Which Non-Public Treatment has Expired.
Any person may request that materials for which non-public treatment has expired under paragraph (a) of this section be publicly disclosed. Any part of the request revealing non-public information shall be filed in accordance with subpart B of this part. The request shall identify the materials requested and date(s) that materials were originally submitted under seal. The template Request for Materials for Which Non-public Treatment Has Expired in appendix A to this subpart may be used and modified to comply with this requirement. The request shall be filed in the docket in which the materials were filed or in the docket in which the materials will be used; in all other circumstances, the request shall be filed in the G docket for the applicable fiscal year. All documents are treated in accordance with the Commission's record retention schedule, which may reduce the availability of some non-public information.
(c)
Response.
A response to the request is due within seven calendar days of the filing of the request, unless the Commission otherwise provides. Any response opposing the request shall seek an extension of non-public status by including an application for non-public treatment compliant with § 3011.201. This extension application shall also include specific facts in support of any assertion that commercial injury is likely to occur if the information contained in the materials is publicly disclosed despite the passage of ten years or the timeframe established by Commission order.
(d)
Reply.
Within 7 calendar days of the filing of a response, any person (including the requestor) may file a reply, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
(e)
Non-public treatment pending resolution.
Pending the resolution of the request by the Commission, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment.
(f)
Ruling.
The Commission may grant the request at any time after the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section has expired. The Commission may deny the request and enter an order extending the duration of non-public status at any time after the reply period described in paragraph (d) of this section has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in § 3011.104.
[83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9644, Feb. 19, 2020; 88 FR 37474, June 8, 2023]
Pt. 3011, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 3011—Template Forms

# Before the POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20268-0001
(Caption)
Docket No.

# REQUEST FOR MATERIALS FOR WHICH NON-PUBLIC TREATMENT HAS EXPIRED
________ , 20____ (date)
On ________ (date non-public materials were initially submitted), non-public treatment was requested for the materials identified as ________ (non-confidential description of non-public materials) (hereinafter “these materials”). Because the non-public treatment of these materials has expired, I request that these materials be disclosed to the public.
Respectfully submitted,
(signature of representative)
/s/
(print name of representative)
(address line 1 of representative)
(address line 2 of representative)
(telephone number of representative)
(e-mail address of representative)
(choose the appropriate response)
Attorney/Non-Attorney Representative for
(name of the requestor)
You may delete the instructional text to complete this form and file a request under 39 CFR 3011.401(b).
[85 FR 9644, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3012

# PART 3012—EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS
Sec.
3012.1
Applicability.
3012.2
Definition of ex parte communications.
3012.3
Definition of a matter before the Commission.
3012.4
Definitions of persons subject to ex parte communication rules.
3012.5
Prohibitions.
3012.6
Required action upon ex parte communication.
3012.7
Penalty for violation of ex parte communication rules.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404(d)(5); 503; 504; 3661(c); 3662.

# Source:
81 FR 42541, June 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.
§ 3012.1
Applicability.
(a) The rules in this section are applicable to all Commission proceedings except for the instances identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) The rules in this section are not applicable to public inquiry (PI) proceedings, undertaken to gather information and which are not intended to result in a binding Commission decision.
(c) The rules in this section are not applicable to international mail (IM) proceedings undertaken pursuant to part 3025 of this chapter.
(d) The rules in this section are not applicable to specifically identified proceedings upon written directive from the Commission.
[81 FR 42541, June 30, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3012.2
Definition of ex parte communications.
(a) Subject to the exceptions specified in paragraph (b) of this section, ex parte communications include all communications, oral or written (including electronic), between Commission decision-making personnel, and the Postal Service or public stakeholders regarding matters before the Commission.
(b) Ex parte communications do not include:
(1) Documents filed using the Commission's docketing system;
(2) Communications during the course of Commission meetings or hearings, or other widely publicized events where the Commission provides advance public notice of the event indicating the matter to be discussed, the event is open to all persons participating in the matter before the Commission, and a summary of the event is provided for the record;
(3) Communications during the course of off-the-record technical conferences associated with a matter before the Commission, or the pre-filing conference for nature of service cases required by § 3020.111 of this chapter, where advance public notice of the event is provided indicating the matter to be discussed, and the event is open to all persons participating in the matter before the Commission;
(4) Questions concerning Commission procedures, the status of a matter before the Commission, or the procedural schedule of a pending matter, where these issues are not contested matters before the Commission; and
(5) Communications not material to the matter before the Commission.
[81 FR 42541, June 30, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3012.3
Definition of a matter before the Commission.
(a) A matter is before the Commission at such time as the Commission may designate, but in no event later than the earlier of the filing of a request to initiate a proceeding or the Commission noticing a proceeding.
(b) A matter is also before the Commission at such time as the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that a request to initiate a proceeding is expected to be filed.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to periodic reviews or reports issued by the Commission, or the 10-year review pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3622(d)(3).
(d) The following explanations apply:
(1) A matter is no longer before the Commission upon the issuance of the final order or decision in the docketed matter;
(2) A matter is again before the Commission upon the filing of a request for reconsideration. The matter remains before the Commission until resolution of the matter under reconsideration;
(3) A matter is again before the Commission upon the remand of a Commission's final decision or order by an appellate court. The matter remains before the Commission until resolution of the matter under remand; and
(4) The mere potential that a request may be filed does not place a matter before the Commission. An affirmative action announcing, or actively preparing, an actual request with the intent to file within a reasonable period of time must be present.
§ 3012.4
Definitions of persons subject to ex parte communication rules.
(a) Commission decision-making personnel include:
(1) The Commissioners and their staffs;
(2) The General Counsel and staff;
(3) The Director of the Office of Accountability and Compliance and staff;
(4) Contractors, consultants, and others hired by the Commission to assist with the Commission's analysis and decision; and
(5) Any other employee who may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process.
(b) The Postal Service includes all Postal Service employees, contractors, consultants, and others with an interest in a matter before the Commission. Any interaction between the Postal Service and Commission decision-making personnel concerning a matter before the Commission expresses an interest in the matter before the Commission.
(c) Public stakeholders include all other persons not previously described, with an interest in a matter before the Commission. This includes the Commission non-decision-making personnel identified in paragraph (d) of this section. Any interaction between a public stakeholder and Commission decision-making personnel concerning a matter before the Commission expresses an interest in the matter before the Commission.
(d) Commission non-decision-making personnel include:
(1) All Commission personnel other than decision-making personnel;
(2) Commission personnel not participating in the decisional process owing to the prohibitions of § 3010.144 of this chapter regarding no participation by investigative or prosecuting officers;
(3) The Public Representative and other Commission personnel assigned to represent the interests of the general public pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 505 in the specific case or controversy at issue (regardless of normally assigned duties); and
(4) Contractors, consultants, and others hired by the Commission to provide an independent analysis of issues before the Commission (and Commission employees assigned thereto).
[81 FR 42541, June 30, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3012.5
Prohibitions.
(a) Ex parte communications between Commission decision-making personnel, and the Postal Service or public stakeholders is prohibited.
(b) Commission decision-making personnel shall not rely upon any information obtained through ex parte communications unless the communications are made part of the record of the proceeding, where an opportunity for rebuttal has been provided, and reliance on the information will not cause undue delay or prejudice to any party.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not constitute authority to withhold information from Congress.
§ 3012.6
Required action upon ex parte communications.
(a) Commission decision-making personnel who receive ex parte communications relevant to the merits of the proceeding shall decline to listen to such communications and explain that the matter is pending for determination. Any recipient thereof shall advise the communicator that the communication will not be considered, and shall promptly and fully inform the Commission in writing of the substance of and the circumstances attending the communication, so that the Commission will be able to take appropriate action.
(b) Commission decision-making personnel who receive, or who make or knowingly cause to be made, ex parte communications prohibited by this part shall promptly place, or cause to be placed, on the public record of the proceeding:
(1) All such written communications;
(2) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(3) All written responses, and memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses, to the materials described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) Requests for an opportunity to rebut, on the record, any facts or contentions contained in an ex parte communication which have been placed on
the public record of the proceeding pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may be filed in writing with the Commission. The Commission will grant such requests only where it determines that the dictates of fairness so require. In lieu of actually receiving rebuttal material, the Commission may in its discretion direct that the alleged factual assertion and the proposed rebuttal be disregarded in arriving at a decision.
§ 3012.7
Penalty for violation of ex parte communication rules.
(a) The penalties for violation of ex parte communication rules specified in this section are applicable only to:
(1) Nature of postal service proceedings conducted pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3661(c);
(2) Appeal of Postal Service decisions to close or consolidate any post office conducted pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 404(d)(5); and
(3) Rate or service complaints conducted pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3662.
(b) Upon notice of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a participant in violation of § 3012.5(a), the Commission or presiding officer may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statutes, require the participant to show cause why the participant's claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(c) The Commission may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statutes administered by the Commission, consider a violation of § 3012.5(a) sufficient grounds for a decision adverse to a party who has knowingly committed such violation or knowingly caused such violation to occur.
[81 FR 42541, June 30, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3013

# PART 3013—PROCEDURES FOR COMPELLING PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION BY THE POSTAL SERVICE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3013.1
Scope and applicability of other parts of this title.
3013.2
Terms defined for purposes of this part.

# Subpart B—Subpoenas
3013.11
General rule—subpoenas.
3013.12
Subpoenas issued without receipt of a third-party request.
3013.13
Subpoenas issued in response to a third-party request.
3013.14
Service of subpoenas.
3013.15
Duties in responding to a subpoena.
3013.16
Enforcement of subpoenas.

# Subpart C—Depositions and Written Interrogatories
3013.21
Authority to order depositions and responses to written interrogatories.
Appendix A to Part 3013—Subpoena Form

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 504; 3651(c); 3652(d).

# Source:
75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3013.1
Scope and applicability of other parts of this title.
(a) The rules in this part govern the procedures for compelling the production of information by the Postal Service pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 504(f).
(b) Subparts A, B, and D to part 3010 of this chapter apply unless otherwise stated in this part or otherwise ordered by the Commission.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.2
Terms defined for purposes of this part.
(a)
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed by the Commission under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(b)
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Commission.
(c)
Covered person
means an officer, employee, agent, or contractor of the Postal Service.
(d)
Designated Commissioner
means any Commissioner who has been designated by the Chairman to act under this part.

# Subpart B—Subpoenas
§ 3013.11
General rule—subpoenas.
(a) Subject to the provisions of this part, the Chairman, any designated Commissioner, and any administrative law judge may issue a subpoena to any covered person.
(b) The written concurrence of a majority of the Commissioners then holding office shall be required before any subpoena may be issued under this subpart. When duly authorized by a majority of the Commissioners then holding office, a subpoena shall be issued by the Chairman, a designated Commissioner, or an administrative law judge.
(c) Subpoenas issued pursuant to this subpart may require the attendance and presentation of testimony or the production of documentary or other evidence with respect to any proceeding conducted by the Commission under title 39 of the United States Code or to obtain information for preparation of a report under that title.
(d) Subpoenas issued pursuant to this subpart shall include such conditions as may be necessary or appropriate to protect a covered person from oppression, or undue burden or expense, including the following:
(1) That disclosure may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including the designation of the time or place;
(2) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of disclosure be limited to certain matters;
(3) That disclosure occur with no one present except persons designated by the Commission;
(4) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be revealed or be revealed only in a designated way as provided in part 3011 of this chapter; and
(5) Such other conditions deemed necessary and appropriate under the circumstances presented.
(e) Subpoenas shall be served in the manner provided by § 3013.14.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.12
Subpoenas issued without receipt of a third-party request.
(a) A subpoena duly authorized by a majority of the Commissioners then holding office may be issued by the Chairman, a designated Commissioner, or an administrative law judge under § 3013.11 without a request having been made by a third party under § 3013.13.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a subpoena shall not be issued until after the covered person has been provided an opportunity to produce the requested information voluntarily.
(c) A subpoena may be issued summarily without first providing an opportunity to produce the requested information voluntarily if a delay in the issuance of the subpoena could unreasonably limit or prevent production of the information being sought.
(d) Subpoenas issued under this section shall be issued subject to the right of the Postal Service and other interested persons to file a motion pursuant to § 3010.160(a) of this chapter to quash the subpoena, to limit the scope of the subpoena, or to condition the subpoena as provided in § 3013.11(d). Such motion shall include any objections to the subpoena that are personal to the covered person responsible for providing the information being sought. Motions alleging undue burden or cost must state with particularity the basis for such claims. Answers to the motion may be filed by any interested person pursuant to § 3010.160(b) of this chapter. Pending the resolution of any such motion, the covered person shall secure and maintain the requested information.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.13
Subpoenas issued in response to a third-party request.
(a)
Procedure for requesting and issuing subpoenas when hearings have been ordered.
A participant in any proceeding in which a hearing has been ordered by the Commission may request the issuance of a subpoena to a covered person pursuant to § 3013.11.
(1) Subpoenas may be requested to enforce an order to compel previously issued pursuant to the rules of practice with which the Postal Service has failed to comply.
(2) Requests for subpoenas under this section shall be made by written motion filed with the presiding officer in the manner provided in § 3010.160 of this chapter. The Postal Service shall transmit a copy of the request to any covered person that it deems likely to be affected by the request and shall provide the person requesting the subpoena with the name, business address, and business phone number of the persons to whom the request has been transmitted.
(3) Answers to the motion may be filed by the Postal Service, by any person to whom the Postal Service has transmitted the request, and by any other participant. Answers raising objections, including allegations of undue burden or cost, must state with particularity the basis for such claims. Answers shall be filed as required by § 3010.160(b) of this chapter.
(4) The presiding officer shall forward copies of the motion and any responses to the Commission together with a recommendation of whether or not the requested subpoena should be issued and, if so, the scope and content thereof and conditions, if any, that should be placed on the subpoena. Copies of the presiding officer's recommendation shall be served in accordance with § 3010.127 of this chapter.
(5) Following receipt of the materials forwarded by the presiding officer, the Commissioners shall determine whether the requested subpoena should be issued and, if so, whether any conditions should be placed on the scope or content of the subpoena or on the responses to the subpoena. The Commissioners may, but are not required, to entertain further oral or written submissions from the Postal Service or the participants before acting on the request. In making their determination, the Commissioners are not bound by any recommendation of a presiding officer.
(b)
Procedure for requesting and issuing subpoenas when no hearings have been ordered.
Any person may request the issuance of a subpoena to a covered person pursuant to § 3013.11 to enforce an information request issued by the Commission or a Commissioner even though no hearings have been ordered by the Commission.
(1) A request for the issuance of a subpoena shall be made by motion as provided by § 3010.160 of this chapter. A copy of the request shall be served upon the Postal Service as provided by § 3010.127 of this chapter and by forwarding a copy to the General Counsel of the Postal Service, or such other person authorized to receive process by personal service, by Express Mail or Priority Mail, or by First-Class Mail, Return Receipt requested. The Postal Service shall transmit a copy of the request to any covered person that it deems likely to be affected by the request and shall provide the person requesting the subpoena with the name, business address and business phone number of the persons to whom the request has been transmitted. Proof of service of the request shall be filed with the Secretary by the person requesting the subpoena. The Secretary shall issue a notice of the filing of proof of service and the deadline for filing answers to the request.
(2) Answers to the motion may be filed by the Postal Service, by any person to whom the Postal Service has transmitted the request, and by any other person. Answers raising objections, including allegations of undue burden or cost, must state with particularity the basis for such claims. Answers shall be filed as required by § 3010.160(b) of this chapter.
(3) Following receipt of the request and any answers to the request, the Commissioners shall determine whether the requested subpoena should be issued and, if so, whether any conditions should be placed on the scope or content of the subpoena or on the responses to the subpoena. The Commissioners may, but are not required, to entertain further oral or written submissions before acting. A majority of the Commissioners then holding office must concur in writing before a subpoena may be issued.
(c)
Contents of requests for subpoenas.
Each motion requesting the issuance of a subpoena shall include the following:
(1) A demonstration that the subpoena is being requested with respect to a proceeding conducted by the Commission under title 39 of the United States Code or that the purpose of the subpoena is to obtain information to be used by the Commission to prepare a report under title 39 of the United States Code;
(2) A showing of the relevance and materiality of the testimony, documentary or other evidence being sought;
(3) Specification with particularity of any books, papers, documents, writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound recordings, images, or other data or data compilations stored in any medium from which information can be obtained, including, without limitation, electronically stored information which is being sought from the covered person;
(4) In situations in which a hearing has been ordered, the request must include in addition to the information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) of this section, a certification that the covered person has failed to comply with an order compelling discovery previously issued pursuant to the Commission's rules of practice; and
(5) In situations in which a hearing has not been ordered, the request must include in addition to the information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) of this section, an explanation of the reason for the request and the purposes for which the appearance, testimony, documentary or other evidence is being sought, and a certification that the Postal Service has failed to comply with a previously issued Commission order or information request.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9645, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.14
Service of subpoenas.
(a)
Manner of service
—(1)
Existing Postal Service officers and employees.
In addition to electronic service as provided by § 3010.127(a) of this chapter, subpoenas directed to existing Postal Service officers and employees must be served by personal service upon the General Counsel of the Postal Service or upon such other representative of the Postal Service as is authorized to receive process. Upon receipt, the subpoena shall be transmitted and delivered by the Postal Service to the existing officers and employees responsible for providing the information being sought by the subpoena. Subpoenas served upon the Postal Service and transmitted to Postal Service officers and employees shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.
(2)
Existing Postal Service agents and contractors.
In addition to electronic service as provided by § 3010.127(a) of this chapter, subpoenas directed to existing Postal Service agents and contractors must be served by personal service upon the General Counsel of the Postal Service or upon such other representative of the Postal Service as is authorized to receive process. Upon receipt, the subpoena shall be transmitted and delivered by the Postal Service to existing agents and contractors responsible for providing the information being sought by the subpoena. Service upon such agents and contractors shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.
(3)
Prior Postal Service officers, employees, agents, and contractors.
Subpoenas directed to Postal Service officers, employees, agents, and contractors who, at the time the subpoena is issued, are no longer officers or employees of the Postal Service or are no longer agents or contractors in an existing agency or contract relationship with the Postal Service, must be served by personal service. Service upon such officers, employees, agents, or contractors shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.
(4)
Service arrangements.
Arrangements for service upon the Postal Service under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or upon former Postal Service officers, employees, agents, or contractors under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be arranged either by the Commission or by the third party who requested issuance of the subpoena.
(b)
Return of service and proof of transmission
—(1)
Return of service.
Proof of service under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Secretary within two business days following service, unless a shorter or longer period is ordered by the Commission, and
must be accompanied by certifications of:
(i) The manner, date, and time of delivery of the subpoena;
(ii) The name, business address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the perseon upon whom the subpoena was served; and
(iii) The return date of the subpoena.
(2)
Proof of transmission.
The Postal Service shall within two business days of transmission of a subpoena by the Postal Service to an existing Postal Service officer, employee, agent, or contractor pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or such shorter or longer period ordered by the Commission, file with the Secretary a certification of:
(i) The manner, date, and time of delivery of the subpoena;
(ii) The name, business address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the person to whom the subpoena was transmitted; and
(iii) The return date of the subpoena.
(c)
Notice of service, proof of transmission, and return date.
The Secretary shall post a notice of service and proof of transmission upon the Commission's website which specifies the return date of the subpoena.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9646, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.15
Duties in responding to a subpoena.
(a) A covered person responding to a subpoena to produce documents shall produce them as they are kept in the usual course of business or shall organize and label them to correspond with the categories in the subpoena.
(b) If a subpoena does not specify the form or forms for producing electronically stored information, a covered person responding to a subpoena must produce the information in a form or forms in which the covered person ordinarily maintains it or in a form or forms that are reasonably usable.
(c) A covered person responding to a subpoena need not produce the same electronically stored information in more than one form.
(d) A covered person commanded to produce and permit inspection or copying of designated electronically stored information, books, papers, or documents need not appear in person at the place of production or inspection unless commanded to appear for deposition, hearing, or trial.
(e) A covered person who fails or refuses to disclose or provide discovery of information on the grounds that the information is privileged or subject to protection as a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information must expressly support all such claims and shall provide a description of the nature of the information and the potential harm that is sufficient to enable the Commission to evaluate and determine the propriety of the claim.
(f) Request for confidential treatment of information shall be made in accordance with part 3011 of this chapter.
[75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9646, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3013.16
Enforcement of subpoenas.
In the case of contumacy or failure to obey a subpoena issued under this subpart, the Commission may apply for an order to enforce its subpoena as permitted by 39 U.S.C. 504(f)(3).

# Subpart C—Depositions and Written Interrogatories
§ 3013.21
Authority to order depositions and responses to written interrogatories.
The Chairman, any designated Commissioner, or any administrative law judge may order the taking of depositions and responses to written interrogatories by a covered person with respect to any proceeding conducted under title 39 of the United States Code or to obtain information to be used to prepare a report under that title.
Pt. 3013, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 3013—Subpoena Form
ER19FE20.000
ER19FE20.001
ER19FE20.002
[85 FR 9646, Feb. 19, 2020]

# SUBCHAPTER D—SPECIAL RULES OF PRACTICE FOR SPECIFIC PROCEEDING TYPES
Pt. 3020

# PART 3020—RULES APPLICABLE TO POSTAL SERVICE REQUESTS FOR CHANGES IN THE NATURE OF POSTAL SERVICES
Sec.
3020.101
Applicability.
3020.102
Advisory opinion and special studies.
3020.103
Computation of time.
3020.104
Service by the Postal Service.
3020.105
Motions.
3020.106-3020.109
[Reserved]
3020.110
Procedural schedule.
3020.111
Pre-filing requirements.
3020.112
Filing of formal requests.
3020.113
Contents of formal requests.
3020.114
Filing of prepared direct evidence.
3020.115
Mandatory technical conference.
3020.116
Discovery—in general.
3020.117
Interrogatories.
3020.118
Production of documents.
3020.119
Admissions.
3020.120
Rebuttal testimony.
3020.121
Surrebuttal testimony.
3020.122
Hearings.
3020.123
Initial and reply briefs.
Appendix A to Part 3020—Pro Forma N-Case Procedural Schedule

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404(d); 503; 504; 3661.

# Source:
85 FR 9649, Feb. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3020.101
Applicability.
The rules in this part govern the procedure with regard to proposals of the Postal Service pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3661 requesting from the Commission an advisory opinion on changes in the nature of postal services that will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis. The Rules of General Applicability in part 3010 of this chapter are also applicable to proceedings conducted pursuant to this subpart except that §§ 3010.160 through 3010.164 (Motions); § 3010.310 (Discovery—general policy); § 3010.311 (Interrogatories for purposes of discovery); § 3010.312 (Requests for production of documents or things for the purpose of discovery); § 3010.321 (Hearings); § 3010.325 (Depositions); and § 3010.330 (Briefs) of this chapter do not apply in proceedings conducted under this part.
§ 3020.102
Advisory opinion and special studies.
(a)
Issuance of opinion.
In the absence of a determination of good cause for extension, the Commission shall issue an advisory opinion in proceedings conducted under this subpart not later than 90 days following the filing of the Postal Service's request for an advisory opinion.
(b)
Special studies.
Advisory opinions shall address the specific changes proposed by the Postal Service in the nature of postal services. If, in any proceeding, alternatives or related issues of significant importance arise, the Commission may, in its discretion, undertake an evaluation of such alternative or issues by means of special studies, public inquiry proceedings, or other appropriate means.
§ 3020.103
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this subpart, the term
day
means a calendar day unless explicitly specified otherwise. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday for the Commission, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor Federal holiday.
§ 3020.104
Service by the Postal Service.
By filing its request electronically with the Commission, the Postal Service is deemed to have effectively served copies of its formal request and its prepared direct evidence upon those persons, including the officer of the Commission, who participated in the pre-filing conference held under § 3020.111. The Postal Service shall be required to serve hard copies of its formal request and prepared direct evidence only upon those persons who have notified the Postal Service, in writing, during the pre-filing conference(s), that they do not have access to the Commission's website.
§ 3020.105
Motions.
(a)
In general.
(1) An application for an order or ruling not otherwise specifically provided for in this subpart shall be made by motion. A motion shall set forth with particularity the ruling or relief sought, the grounds and basis therefor, and the statutory or other authority relied upon, and shall be filed with the Secretary and served pursuant to the provisions of subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter. A motion to dismiss proceedings or any other motion that involves a final determination of the proceeding, any motion under § 3020.121, and a motion that seeks to extend the deadline for issuance of an advisory opinion shall be addressed to the Commission. After a presiding officer is designated in a proceeding, all other motions in that proceeding, except those filed under part 3011 of this chapter, shall be addressed to the presiding officer.
(2) Within five days after a motion is filed, or such other period as the Commission or presiding officer in any proceeding under this subpart may establish, any participant to the proceeding may file and serve an answer in support of or in opposition to the motion pursuant to subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter. Such an answer shall state with specificity the position of the participant with regard to the ruling or relief requested in the motion and the grounds and basis and statutory or other authority relied upon. Unless the Commission or presiding officer otherwise provides, no reply to an answer or any further responsive document shall be filed.
(b)
Motions to be excused from answering discovery requests.
(1) A motion to be excused from answering discovery requests shall be filed with the Commission within three days of the filing of the interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission to which the motion is directed. If a motion to be excused from answering is made part of an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission, the part to which objection is made shall be clearly identified. Claims of privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. Claims of undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer or respond to the request, providing estimates of costs and workhours required, to the extent possible.
(2) An answer to a motion to be excused from answering a discovery request shall be filed within two days of the filing of the motion. The text of the discovery request and any answer previously provided by the Postal Service shall be included as an attachment to the answer.
(3) Unless the Commission or presiding officer grants the motion to be excused from answering, the Postal Service shall answer the interrogatory, production request, or request for admission. Answers shall be filed in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within three days of the date on which a motion to be excused from answering is denied.
(4) The Commission or presiding officer may impose such terms and conditions as are just and may, for good cause, issue a protective order, including an order limiting or conditioning interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission as justice requires to protect the Postal Service from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.
(c)
Motions to strike.
Motions to strike are requests for extraordinary relief and are not substitutes for briefs or rebuttal evidence in a proceeding. A motion to strike testimony or exhibit materials must be submitted in writing at least three days before the scheduled appearance of a witness, unless good cause is shown. Responses to motions to strike are due within two days.
(d)
Motions for leave to file surrebuttal testimony.
Motions for leave to file surrebuttal testimony submitted pursuant to § 3020.121 and any answers thereto must be filed on or before the dates provided in the procedural schedule established by the Commission.
§§ 3020.106-3020.109
[Reserved]
§ 3020.110
Procedural schedule.
(a)
Notice.
Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission shall include in the notice of proceeding issued under § 3010.151 of this chapter a procedural schedule based upon the pro
forma schedule set forth in appendix A of this part. The procedural schedule shall include:
(1) A deadline for notices of interventions;
(2) The date(s) for the mandatory technical conference between the Postal Service, Commission staff, and interested parties;
(3) The deadline for discovery on the Postal Service's direct case;
(4) The deadline for responses to participant in discovery on the Postal Service's case;
(5) The deadline for participants to confirm their intent to file a rebuttal case;
(6) The date for filing participant rebuttal testimony, if any;
(7) The dates for filing motions for leave to file surrebuttal testimony and answers thereto;
(8) The date for filing surrebuttal, if any;
(9) The date(s) for hearings on the Postal Service's direct case, rebuttal testimony, and surrebuttal testimony, if any;
(10) The date for filing initial briefs;
(11) The date for filing reply briefs; and
(12) A deadline for issuance of an advisory opinion which is 90 days from the date of filing.
(b)
Changes for good cause.
These dates are subject to change for good cause only.
(c)
Incomplete request.
If at any time the Commission determines that the Postal Service's request is incomplete or that changes made subsequent to its filing significantly modify the request, the Commission may extend the deadlines established or take any other action as justice may require.
§ 3020.111
Pre-filing requirements.
(a)
Pre-filing conference required.
Prior to the Postal Service filing a request that the Commission issue an advisory opinion on a proposed change in the nature of postal services subject to the procedures established in this subpart, the Postal Service shall conduct one or more pre-filing conference(s) with interested persons in the proceeding and shall make a good faith effort to address the concerns of such persons.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of a pre-filing conference is to expedite consideration of the Postal Service's request for the issuance of advisory opinions by informing interested persons of the Postal Service's proposal; by providing an opportunity for interested persons to give feedback to the Postal Service that can be used by the Postal Service to modify or refine its proposal before it is filed at the Commission; and by identifying relevant issues and information needed to address those issues during proceedings at the Commission.
(c)
Rationale for the proposal.
The Postal Service shall make available at the pre-filing conference a representative capable of discussing the policy rationale behind the Postal Service's proposal with interested persons.
(d)
Notice.
The Postal Service shall file with the Commission a notice of its intent to conduct any pre-filing conference(s) at least ten days before the first scheduled conference. The notice filed by the Postal Service shall include a schedule of proposed date(s) and location(s) for the conference(s). Upon receipt of such notice, the Commission shall issue a notice of pre-filing conference(s), which shall be published in the
Federal Register,
and appoint a Public Representative.
(e)
Nature of conferences.
Discussions during the pre-filing conference(s) shall be informal and off the record. No formal record will be created during a pre-filing conference.
(f)
Noncompliance.
If the Postal Service's noncompliance with the requirements of the pre-filing conference under § 3020.113(b)(4) is established by a participant, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider an extension of, or modification to, the procedural schedule.
(g)
Informal meetings.
Interested persons may meet outside the context of a pre-filing conference, among themselves or with the Postal Service, individually or in groups, to discuss the proposed changes in the nature of postal services.
§ 3020.112
Filing of formal requests.
Whenever the Postal Service determines to request that the Commission issue an advisory opinion on a proposed change in the nature of postal services
subject to this subpart, the Postal Service shall file with the Commission a formal request for such an opinion in accordance with the requirements of subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter and § 3020.113. The request shall be filed not less than 90 days before the proposed effective date of the change in the nature of postal services involved. Within five days after the Postal Service has filed a formal request for an advisory opinion in accordance with this section, the Secretary shall lodge a notice thereof with the director of the Office of the Federal Register for publication in the
Federal Register
.
§ 3020.113
Contents of formal requests.
(a)
General requirements.
A formal request filed under this subpart shall include such information and data and such statements of reasons and basis as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission and interested persons of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed change in the nature of postal services and to show that the change in the nature of postal services is in accordance with and conforms to the policies established under title 39, United States Code.
(b)
Specific information.
A formal request shall include:
(1) A detailed statement of the present nature of the postal services proposed to be changed and the change proposed;
(2) The proposed effective date for the proposed change in the nature of postal services;
(3) A full and complete statement of the reasons and basis for the Postal Service's determination that the proposed change in the nature of postal services is in accordance with and conforms to the policies of title 39, United States Code;
(4) A statement that the Postal Service has completed the pre-filing conference(s) required by § 3020.111, including the time and place of each conference and a certification that the Postal Service has made a good faith effort to address concerns of interested persons about the Postal Service's proposal raised at the pre-filing conference(s);
(5) The prepared direct evidence required by § 3020.114;
(6) The name of an institutional witness capable of providing information relevant to the Postal Service's proposal that is not provided by other Postal Service witnesses; and
(7) Confirmation that Postal Service witnesses, including its institutional witness, will be available for the mandatory technical conference provided for in § 3020.115.
(c)
Additional information.
The Commission may request additional information from the Postal Service concerning a formal request.
(d)
Reliance on prepared direct evidence.
The Postal Service may incorporate detailed data, information, and statements of reason or basis contained in prepared direct evidence submitted under paragraph (b)(5) of this section into its formal request by reference to specific portions of the prepared direct evidence.
§ 3020.114
Filing of prepared direct evidence.
As part of a formal request for an advisory opinion under this subpart, the Postal Service shall file all of the prepared direct evidence upon which it proposes to rely in the proceeding on the record before the Commission to establish that the proposed change in the nature of postal services is in accordance with and conforms to the policies of title 39, United States Code. Such prepared direct evidence shall be in the form of prepared written testimony and documentary exhibits which shall be filed in accordance with §§ 3010.322 and 3010.323 of this chapter.
§ 3020.115
Mandatory technical conference.
(a)
Date.
A date for a mandatory technical conference shall be included in the procedural schedule required by § 3020.110. The date for this technical conference shall be set based upon the pro forma schedule set forth in appendix A to this part. The conference shall be held at the offices of the Commission.
(b)
Witnesses.
The Postal Service shall make available at the technical
conference each witness whose prepared direct testimony was filed pursuant to § 3020.114. If the Postal Service seeks for any witness to be excused on the basis that the witness's testimony neither presents nor is based upon technical information, it shall make such a motion concurrent with its request.
(c)
Purpose.
The purpose of the technical conference is to provide an informal, off-the-record opportunity for participants, the officer of the Commission representing the interests of the general public, and Commission staff to clarify technical issues and to identify and request information relevant to an evaluation of the nature of changes to postal services proposed by the Postal Service. The technical conference is not part of the formal record in the proceeding.
(d)
Relation to discovery process.
Information obtained during the mandatory technical conference may be used to discover additional relevant information by means of the formal discovery mechanisms provided for in §§ 3020.116 through 3020.119.
(e)
Record.
Information obtained during, or as a result of, the mandatory technical conference is not part of the decisional record unless admitted under the standards of § 3010.322(a) of this chapter.
§ 3020.116
Discovery—in general.
(a)
Purpose.
The rules in this subpart allow discovery that is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence during a proceeding. The notice and scheduling order issued pursuant to § 3020.110 shall provide that discovery will be scheduled to end at least three days prior to the commencement of hearings.
(b)
Informal discovery.
The discovery procedures in this section and §§ 3020.117 through 3020.119 are not exclusive. Participants are encouraged to engage in informal discovery whenever possible to clarify exhibits and testimony. The results of these efforts may be introduced into the record by stipulation, or by other appropriate means. In the interest of reducing motion practice, participants also are expected to use informal means to clarify questions and to identify portions of discovery requests considered overbroad or burdensome.
(c)
Failure to obey orders or rulings.
If a participant fails to obey an order of the Commission or ruling of presiding officer to provide or permit discovery pursuant to this section or §§ 3020.117 through 3020.119, the Commission or the presiding officer may issue orders or rulings in regard to the failure as are just. These orders or rulings may, among other things:
(1) Direct that certain designated facts are established for the purposes of the proceeding;
(2) Prohibit a participant from introducing certain designated matters in evidence;
(3) Strike certain evidence, requests, pleadings, or parts thereof; or
(4) Such other relief as the Commission deems appropriate.
§ 3020.117
Interrogatories.
(a)
Service and contents.
In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any participant in a proceeding may propound to any other participant no more than a total of 25 written, sequentially numbered interrogatories, by witness, requesting non-privileged information relevant to the subject matter of the proceeding. An interrogatory with subparts that are logically or factually subsumed within and necessarily related to the primary question will be counted as one interrogatory. The respondent shall answer each interrogatory and furnish such information as is available. The participant propounding the interrogatories shall file them with the Commission in conformance with part 3010, subpart B, of this chapter. Follow-up interrogatories that clarify or elaborate on the answer to an earlier discovery request may be filed after the period for intervenor discovery on the Postal Service case ends, if the interrogatories are filed within seven days of receipt of the answer to the previous interrogatory. In extraordinary circumstances, follow-up interrogatories may be filed not less than six days prior to the filing date for the participant's rebuttal or surrebuttal testimony.
(b)
Answers.
(1) Answers to interrogatories shall be prepared so that they can be incorporated into the record as written cross-examination. Each answer shall begin on a separate page, identify the individual responding and the relevant testimony number, if any, the participant who propounded the interrogatory, and the number and text of the question.
(2) Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully in writing by the individual responsible for the answer, unless it is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated in a motion to be excused from answering in the manner prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) An interrogatory otherwise proper is not necessarily objectionable because an answer would involve an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to fact.
(4) Answers filed by a respondent shall be filed in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within seven days of the filing of the interrogatories or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer. Any other period fixed by the Commission or presiding officer shall end before the conclusion of the hearing.
(c)
Motion to be excused from answering.
A respondent may, in lieu of answering an interrogatory, file a motion pursuant to § 3020.105(b) to be excused from answering.
(d)
Supplemental answers.
A respondent has a duty to timely amend a prior answer if it obtains information upon the basis of which it knows that the answer was incorrect when made or is no longer true. A respondent shall serve supplemental answers to update or to correct responses whenever necessary, up until the date the answer could have been accepted into evidence as written cross-examination. A respondent shall indicate whether the answer merely supplements the previous answer to make it current or whether it is a complete replacement for the previous answer.
§ 3020.118
Production of documents.
(a)
Service and contents.
(1) In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any participant may serve on any other participant a request to produce and permit the participant making the request, or someone acting on behalf of the participant, to inspect and copy any designated documents or things that constitute or contain matters, not privileged, that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding and that are in the custody or control of the respondent.
(2) The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity, and shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making inspection. The participant requesting the production of documents or items shall file its request with the Commission in conformance with part 3010, subpart B, of this chapter.
(b)
Answers.
(1) The respondent shall file an answer to a request under paragraph (a) of this section with the Commission in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within seven days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer. The answer shall state, with respect to each item or category, whether inspection will be permitted as requested.
(2) If the respondent objects to an item or category, it shall state the reasons for objection in a motion to be excused from answering as prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Motions to be excused from answering.
A respondent may, in lieu of answering a request for production, file a motion pursuant to § 3020.105(b) to be excused from answering.
§ 3020.119
Admissions.
(a)
Service and content.
In the interest of expedition, any participant may serve upon any other participant a written request for the admission of any relevant, unprivileged facts, including the genuineness of any documents or exhibits to be presented in the hearing. The admission shall be for purposes of the pending proceeding only. The participant requesting the
admission shall file its request with the Commission in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter.
(b)
Answers.
(1) A matter for which admission is requested shall be separately set forth in the request and is deemed admitted unless, within seven days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be established by the Commission or presiding officer, the respondent files a written answer or motion to be excused from answering pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. Answers to requests for admission shall be filed with the Commission in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter.
(2) If the answer filed by the respondent does not admit a matter asserted in the participant's request, it must either specifically deny the matter or explain in detail why it cannot truthfully admit or deny the asserted matter. When good faith requires, the respondent must admit a portion of the asserted matter and either deny or qualify the remaining portion of such asserted matter. Lack of knowledge for failing to admit or deny can be invoked only after reasonable inquiry if the information already possessed or reasonably obtainable is insufficient to enable an admission or denial.
(3) Grounds for objection to requests for admission must be stated. Objections cannot be based solely upon the ground that the request presents a genuine issue for trial.
(c)
Motion to be excused from answering.
A respondent may, in lieu of answering a request for admission, file a motion pursuant to § 3020.105(b) to be excused from answering.
§ 3020.120
Rebuttal testimony.
(a)
Timing.
Any participant may file rebuttal testimony on or before the date established for that purpose by the procedural schedule issued by the Commission pursuant to § 3020.110. Hearing on rebuttal testimony shall proceed as set forth in the procedural schedule.
(b)
Limitations.
The scope of rebuttal testimony shall be limited to material issues relevant to the specific proposal made by the Postal Service. Rebuttal testimony shall not propose, or seek to address, alternatives to the Postal Service's proposal.
(c)
Intent to file rebuttal testimony.
If a participant wishes to file rebuttal testimony, it must file a document confirming its intent to file rebuttal testimony with the Commission by the date provided in the procedural schedule.
(d)
Adjustment of dates.
If no participant files a confirmation of intent to file rebuttal testimony on or before the date established by the procedural schedule issued by the Commission pursuant to § 3020.110, the Commission may adjust other dates in the procedural schedule as it deems to be necessary and appropriate.
§ 3020.121
Surrebuttal testimony.
(a)
Scope.
Surrebuttal testimony shall be limited to material issues relevant to the Postal Service's proposal and to the rebuttal testimony which the surrebuttal testimony seeks to address. Testimony that exceeds the scope of the Postal Service's proposal or rebuttal testimony shall not be permitted.
(b)
Motion for leave to file surrebuttal.
A participant who wishes to file surrebuttal testimony must obtain prior approval by filing with the Commission a motion for leave to file surrebuttal pursuant to § 3020.105(d) on or before the date provided in the procedural schedule established by the Commission. The motion must summarize the surrebuttal testimony the participant wishes to file and must identify and explain exceptional circumstances that require the filing of such testimony. The moving participant bears the burden of demonstrating exceptional circumstances that warrant a grant of the motion. Answers to such motions may be filed as provided in § 3020.105(d).
(c)
Deadline for filing surrebuttal authorized by the Commission.
In the event the Commission grants the motion for leave to file surrebuttal testimony, the moving participant must file its proposed surrebuttal testimony by the date provided in the procedural schedule established pursuant to § 3020.110.
(d)
Adjustment of procedural dates.
If no participant files a motion for leave to file surrebuttal testimony, or if the Commission denies all such motions as
may be filed, the remaining dates in the procedural schedule may be adjusted by the Commission as it deems to be necessary and appropriate.
§ 3020.122
Hearings.
(a)
Initiation.
Hearings for the purpose of taking evidence shall be initiated by the issuance of a notice and scheduling order pursuant to § 3020.110.
(b)
Presiding officer.
All hearings shall be held before the Commission sitting
en banc
with a duly designated presiding officer.
(c)
Entering of appearances.
The Commission or the presiding officer before whom the hearing is held will cause to be entered on the record all appearances together with a notation showing on whose behalf each such appearance has been made.
(d)
Order of procedure.
In requests for advisory opinions before the Commission, the Postal Service shall be the first participant to present its case. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the presiding officer shall direct the order of presentation of all other participants and issue such other procedural orders as may be necessary to assure the orderly and expeditious conclusion of the hearing.
(e)
Presentation of the evidence
—(1)
Presentations by participants.
Each participant shall have the right in public hearings to present evidence relevant to the Postal Service's proposal, cross-examine (limited to testimony adverse to the participant conducting the cross-examination), object, move, and argue. The participant's presentation shall be in writing and may be accompanied by a trial brief or legal memoranda. (Legal memoranda on matters at issue will be welcome at any stage of the proceeding.) When objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence before the Commission or the presiding officer are made, the grounds relied upon shall be stated. Formal exceptions to rulings are unnecessary.
(2)
Written cross-examination.
Written cross-examination will be utilized as a substitute for oral cross-examination whenever possible, particularly to introduce factual or statistical evidence. Designations of written cross-examination shall be served in accordance with part 3010, subpart B, of this chapter no later than three days before the scheduled appearance of a witness. Designations shall identify every item to be offered as evidence, listing the participant who initially posed the discovery request, the witness and/or party to whom the question was addressed (if different from the witness answering), the number of the request and, if more than one answer is provided, the dates of all answers to be included in the record. (For example, “PR-T1-17 to USPS witness Jones, answered by USPS witness Smith (March 1, 1997) as updated (March 21, 1997)”). When a participant designates written cross-examination, two hard copies of the documents (unfastened, single-spaced, not hole-punched) are to be included and shall simultaneously be submitted to the Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary of the Commission shall prepare for the record a packet containing all materials designated for written cross-examination in a format that facilitates review by the witness and counsel. The witness will verify the answers and materials in the packet, and they will be entered into the transcript by the presiding officer. Counsel may object to written cross-examination at that time, and any designated answers or materials ruled objectionable will not be admitted into the record.
(3)
Oral cross-examination.
Oral cross-examination will be permitted for clarifying written cross-examination and for testing assumptions, conclusions or other opinion evidence. Notices of intent to conduct oral cross-examination shall be filed three or more days before the announced appearance of the witness and shall include specific references to the subject matter to be examined and page references to the relevant direct testimony and exhibits. A participant intending to use complex numerical hypotheticals, or to question using intricate or extensive cross-references, shall provide adequately documented cross-examination exhibits for the record. Copies of these exhibits shall be filed at least two days (including one working day) before the scheduled appearance of the witness. They may be filed online or delivered in hardcopy form to counsel for the
witness, at the discretion of the participant. If a participant has obtained permission to receive service of documents in hardcopy form, hardcopy notices of intent to conduct oral cross-examination of witnesses for that participant shall be delivered to counsel for that participant and served three or more working days before the announced appearance of the witness. Cross-examination exhibits shall be delivered to counsel for the witness at least two days (including one working day) before the scheduled appearance of the witness.
(f)
Limitations on presentation of the evidence.
The taking of evidence shall proceed with all reasonable diligence and dispatch, and to that end, the Commission or the presiding officer may limit appropriately:
(1) The number of witnesses to be heard upon any issue;
(2) The examination by any participant to specific issues; and
(3) The cross-examination of a witness to that required for a full and true disclosure of the facts necessary for exploration of the Postal Service's proposal, disposition of the proceeding, and the avoidance of irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious testimony.
(g)
Motions during hearing.
Except as provided in § 3020.105(a), after a hearing has commenced in a proceeding, a request may be made by motion to the presiding officer for any procedural ruling or relief desired. Such motions shall set forth the ruling or relief sought, and state the grounds therefore and statutory or other supporting authority. Motions made during hearings may be stated orally upon the record, except that the presiding officer may require that such motions be reduced to writing and filed separately. Any participant shall have the opportunity to answer or object to such motions at the time and in the manner directed by the presiding officer.
(h)
Rulings on motions.
The presiding officer is authorized to rule upon any motion not reserved for decision by the Commission in § 3020.105(a). This section shall not preclude a presiding officer from referring any motion made in hearing to the Commission for ultimate determination.
(i)
Transcript corrections.
Corrections to the transcript of a hearing shall not be requested except to correct a material substantive error in the transcription made at the hearing.
(j)
Field hearings.
Field hearings will not be held except upon a showing by any participant and determination by the Commission that there is exceptional need or utility for such a hearing which cannot be accomplished by alternative means.
§ 3020.123
Initial and reply briefs.
(a)
When filed.
At the close of the taking of testimony in any proceeding, participants may file initial and reply briefs. The dates for filing initial and reply briefs shall be established in the procedural schedule issued pursuant to § 3020.110. Such dates may be modified by subsequent order issued by the Commission or the presiding officer.
(b)
Contents.
Each brief filed with the Commission shall be as concise as possible and shall include the following in the order indicated:
(1) A subject index with page references, and a list of all cases and authorities relied upon, arranged alphabetically, with references to the pages where the citation appears;
(2) A concise statement of the case from the viewpoint of the filing participant;
(3) A clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing participant as to the Postal Service request;
(4) A discussion of the evidence, reasons, and authorities relied upon with precise references to the record and the authorities; and
(5) Proposed findings and conclusions with appropriate references to the record or the prior discussion of the evidence and authorities relied upon.
(c)
Length.
Initial briefs filed by all participants other than the Postal Service shall not exceed 14,000 words. Initial briefs filed by the Postal Service shall not exceed 21,000 words. Reply briefs filed by all participants other than the Postal Service shall not exceed 7,000 words. Reply briefs filed by the Postal Service shall not exceed 10,500 words. All participants shall attest to the number of words contained in their brief. Tables of cases, tables of
citations, and appendices shall not be considered as part of the word count.
(d)
Include by reference.
Briefs before the Commission or a presiding officer shall be completely self-contained and shall not incorporate by reference any portion of any other brief, pleading, or document.
(e)
Excerpts from the record.
Testimony and exhibits shall not be quoted or included in briefs except for short excerpts pertinent to the argument presented.
(f)
Filing and service.
Briefs shall be filed in the form and manner and served as required by subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter.
(g)
Statements of Position.
As an alternative to filing a formal brief, a participant may file a Statement of Position. To the extent practicable, the contents of each Statement of Position should include a clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing participant as to the Postal Service request, as well as any points or factors in the existing record that support the participant's position. Statements of Position shall be limited to the existing record and shall not include any new evidentiary material.
Pt. 3020, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 3020—Pro Forma N-Case Procedural Schedule
Line
Action
Day number
1
Pre-Filing Consultations
1
n/a.
2
Commission Order
2
n/a.
3
Filing of Postal Service Request
0.
4
Commission Notice and Order
3
1-3.
5
Technical Conference
10.
6
Participant Discovery on Postal Service Case Ends
28.
7
Responses to Participant Discovery on Postal Service Case
35.
8
Participants Confirm Intent to File a Rebuttal Case
37.
4
9
Filing of Rebuttal Cases (if submitted)
42.
10
Deadline for Motions to Leave to File Surrebuttal
44.
5
11
Deadline for Answers to Motions for Surrebuttal
46.
12
Filing of Surrebuttal Cases (if authorized)
49.
6
13
Hearings:
Hearings (with no Rebuttal Cases)
42-44.
Hearings (with Rebuttal Cases, but no requests for leave to file Surrebuttal Cases)
49-51.
Hearings (with Rebuttal Cases and requests for leave to file Surrebuttal Cases)
54-56.
14
Initial Briefs
(7 days after conclusion of hearings).
15
Reply Briefs
(7 days after filing of Initial Briefs).
16
Target Issuance Date of Advisory Opinion
90.
1
The Postal Service would initiate pre-filing consultations and would file a notice with the Commission of such consultations prior to their commencement.
2
This order would appoint a Public Representative.
3
This notice and order would announce the Postal Service request, set a deadline for interventions, set a date for a technical conference, and establish a procedural schedule.
4
If no participant elects to file a rebuttal case, hearings begin on Day 42.
5
If no surrebuttal cases are requested, hearings begin on Day 49.
6
If one or more surrebuttal cases are requested (whether or not authorized by the Commission), hearings begin on Day 54.
Pt. 3021

# PART 3021—RULES FOR APPEALS OF POSTAL SERVICE DETERMINATIONS TO CLOSE OR CONSOLIDATE POST OFFICES
Sec.
3021.1
Definitions.
3021.2
Applicability.
3021.3
Notice by the Postal Service.
3021.10
Starting an appeal.
3021.11
Submitting an appeal and other documents.
3021.12
Duplicate appeals.
3021.13
Deadlines for appeals.
3021.14
Participation by others.
3021.20
The record on review.
3021.21
Filing of the administrative record.
3021.22
Making documents available for inspection by the public.
3021.30
Suspension pending review.
3021.40
Participant statement.
3021.41
Due date for participant statement.
3021.42
Due date for Postal Service response.
3021.43
Due date for replies to the Postal Service.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404(d).

# Source:
77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.
§ 3021.1
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
(a)
Final determination
means the written determination and findings required by 39 U.S.C. 404(d)(3).
(b)
Petitioner
means a person who files a Petition for Review.
(c)
Petition for Review
means a written document that the Commission accepts as an appeal of a post office closing or consolidation.
§ 3021.2
Applicability.
(a) The rules in this part apply when:
(1) The Postal Service decides to close or consolidate a post office, and
(2) A patron of that post office appeals the closing or consolidation.
(b) Subparts A through D to part 3010 of this chapter apply to appeals of post office closings or consolidations.
(c) Answers to motions filed by the Postal Service are due within 10 days.
[77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.3
Notice by the Postal Service.
(a) Pursuant to section 404(d) of title 39, United States Code, any decision to close or consolidate a post office must be preceded by 60 days' notice to persons served by such post office, the opportunity for such persons to present their views, and a written determination based upon consideration of each of the factors listed in section 404(d)(2) of title 39, United States Code.
(b) This notice must include a provision stating that, pursuant to section 404(d)(5) of title 39, United States Code, a final Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office may be appealed by any person served by such office to the Postal Regulatory Commission at 901 New York Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001, within 30 days after such determination is made available to such person by the Postal Service.
§ 3021.10
Starting an appeal.
(a) A Postal Service decision to close or consolidate a post office may be appealed only by a person served by that office. An appeal is commenced by submitting a Petition for Review to the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(b) The Petition for Review must state that the person(s) submitting it is/are served by the post office that the Postal Service has decided to close or consolidate. The petition should include the name(s) and address(es) of the person(s) filing it and the name or location of the post office to be closed or consolidated. A petitioner may include other information deemed pertinent.
§ 3021.11
Submitting an appeal and other documents.
Petitions for Review, comments, motions, answers, and other documents may be submitted by persons other than the Postal Service by mail, electronically through the Commission's website,
http://www.prc.gov,
or by delivery to the Commission's offices at 901 New York Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001.
[77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.12
Duplicate appeals.
If the Commission receives more than one Petition for Review of the same post office closing or consolidation, the petitions will be considered in a single docket.
§ 3021.13
Deadlines for appeals.
(a)
In general.
If the Postal Service has issued a final determination to close or consolidate a post office, an appeal is due within 30 days of the final determination being made available in conformance with § 3021.3(b).
(b)
Appeals sent by mail.
If sent by mail, a Petition for Review must be postmarked no later than 30 days after the final determination has been made available.
(c)
Appeals sent by other physical delivery.
If sent by some other form of physical delivery, a Petition for Review must be received in the Commission's Docket Section no later than 4:30 p.m., eastern time, on the 30th day after the final determination has been made available.
(d)
Appeals sent electronically.
If submitted electronically, a Petition for
Review must be received in the Commission's Docket Section no later than 4:30 p.m., eastern time, on the 30th day after the final determination has been made available.
[77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.14
Participation by others.
(a) A person served by the post office to be closed or consolidated pursuant to the Postal Service written determination under review who desires to intervene in the proceeding, or any other interested person, or any counsel, agent, or other person authorized or recognized by the Postal Service as such interested person's representative or the representative of such interested person's recognized group, such as Postmasters, may participate in an appeal by sending written comments to the Postal Regulatory Commission in the manner described in § 3021.11.
(b) Persons may submit comments supporting or opposing a Commission order returning the entire matter to the Postal Service for further consideration. Comments must be filed in accordance with the deadlines established in §§ 3021.41 through 3021.43. Commenters may use PRC Form 61, which is available on the Commission's website,
http://www.prc.gov.
[85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.20
The record on review.
(a) The record on review includes:
(1) The final determination;
(2) The notices to persons served by the post office to be closed or consolidated;
(3) The administrative record; and
(4) All documents submitted in the appeal proceeding.
(b) The record shall contain all evidence considered by the Postal Service in making its determination and shall contain no evidence not previously considered by the Postal Service.
§ 3021.21
Filing of the administrative record.
The Postal Service shall file the administrative record within 10 days of the date of posting of a Petition for Review on the Commission's website. The Commission may alter this time for good cause. The Secretary will notify participants that they may view the administrative record at post offices where the final determination was posted.
[77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.22
Making documents available for inspection by the public.
Copies of all filings (including the administrative record) related to an appeal shall be available for public inspection at the post offices where the final determination was posted. The Secretary will notify participants that they may view copies of filings at post offices where the final determination was posted.
§ 3021.30
Suspension pending review.
(a)
Application.
Application for suspension of a determination of the Postal Service to close or consolidate any post office pending the outcome of an appeal to the Postal Regulatory Commission shall be made at the time of the filing of a Petition for Review. The application shall show the reasons for the relief requested and the facts relied upon, and if the facts are subject to dispute the application shall be supported by affidavits or other sworn statements or copies thereof. The applicant must be a person served by the affected post office. Immediate notice of the application shall be given to all parties to the proceeding. The application shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission.
(b)
Answer and filing of the relevant record by the Postal Service.
Within 10 days after the application for suspension is filed, the Postal Service shall file with the Secretary of the Commission and serve on the petitioners an answer to the application supported by affidavits or other sworn statements or copies thereof.
§ 3021.40
Participant statement.
(a) When a timely Petition for Review of a decision to close or consolidate a post office is filed, the Secretary shall furnish petitioner with a copy of PRC Form 61. This form is designed to inform petitioners on how to make a statement of the petitioner's arguments in support of the petition.
(b) The instructions for PRC Form 61 shall provide:
(1) A concise explanation of the purpose of the form;
(2) A copy of section 404(d)(2)(A) of title 39, United States Code; and
(3) Notification that, if petitioner prefers, he or she may file a brief in lieu of or in addition to completing PRC Form 61.
[77 FR 6679, Feb. 9, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3021.41
Due date for participant statement.
The statement or brief of petitioner and of any other participant seeking to have the Commission return the entire matter to the Postal Service for further consideration, shall be filed not more than 20 days after the filing of the administrative record.
§ 3021.42
Due date for Postal Service response.
The statement or brief of the Postal Service, and of any other participant opposing return of the matter for further consideration, shall be filed not more than 14 days after the date for filing of petitioner's statement.
§ 3021.43
Due date for replies to the Postal Service.
Petitioner, and any other participant seeking to have the Commission return the matter for further consideration, may file a reply to the Postal Service response not more than 10 days after the date of the Postal Service response. Replies are limited to issues discussed in the responses of the Postal Service and other participants seeking affirmation of the Postal Service determination.
Pt. 3022

# PART 3022—RULES FOR COMPLAINTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3022.1
Applicability.
3022.2
Scope and nature of complaints.

# Subpart B—Form and Manner Requirements of Initial Pleadings
3022.10
Complaint contents.
3022.11
Service.
3022.12
Pleadings filed in response to a complaint.
3022.13
Conditions for applying rate or service inquiry procedures to complaints.
3022.14
Answer contents.

# Subpart C—Supplemental Information
3022.20
Sufficiency of information.
3022.21
Investigator.

# Subpart D—Proceedings
3022.30
Beginning proceedings on complaints.

# Subpart E—Settlement
3022.40
Policy on settlement.
3022.41
Satisfaction.

# Subpart F—Commission Determinations and Relief
3022.50
Remedies.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3662.

# Source:
74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3022.1
Applicability.
(a) The rules in this part govern the procedure for complaints filed under 39 U.S.C. 3662 that meet the form and manner requirements of subpart B of this part. Part 3010 of this chapter applies unless otherwise stated in this part or otherwise ordered by the Commission.
(b) Subpart E to part 3010 of this chapter does not apply to this part unless and until the Commission makes a finding under § 3022.30(a)(1) that the complaint raises material issues of fact or law and that the issues shall be considered through a hearing on the record.
[85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.2
Scope and nature of complaints.
Any interested person (including a duly appointed officer of the Commission representing the interests of the general public) may file a written complaint with the Commission if that person believes that the Postal Service is not operating in conformance with:
(a) The provisions of 39 U.S.C. chapter 36, or 39 U.S.C. 101(d), 401(2), 403(c), 404a, or 601; or
(b) Any rule, order, or other regulatory requirement based on any of these statutory provisions.

# Subpart B—Form and Manner Requirements of Initial Pleadings
§ 3022.10
Complaint contents.
(a) A complaint must:
(1) Set forth the facts and circumstances that give rise to the complaint;
(2) Clearly identify and explain how the Postal Service action or inaction violates applicable statutory standards or regulatory requirements including citations to the relied upon section or sections of title 39, order, regulation, or other regulatory requirements;
(3) Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the action or inaction as such relate to the complainant;
(4) Include a description of persons or classes of persons known or believed to be similarly affected by the issues involved in the complaint, if applicable;
(5) State the nature of the evidentiary support that the complainant has or expects to obtain during discovery to support the facts alleged in the complaint;
(6) Include an explanation as to why such facts could not reasonably be ascertained by the complainant where claims are premised on information and belief;
(7) State whether the issues presented are pending in or have been resolved by an existing Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the complainant is a party; and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum;
(8) State the specific relief or remedy requested and the basis for that relief; and
(9) Include a certification that states that prior to filing, the complainant attempted to meet or confer with the Postal Service's general counsel to resolve or settle the complaint, why the complainant believes additional such steps would be inadequate, and the reasons for that belief; and
(10) Include a certification that the complaint has been served on the United States Postal Service as required by § 3022.11.
(b) The Commission may waive any of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section to serve the interests of justice.
[74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.11
Service.
Any person filing a complaint must simultaneously serve a copy of the complaint on the Postal Service at this address:
PRCCOMPLAINTS@usps.gov.
A person without internet access may contact the Secretary to obtain approval for alternative methods of service.
[85 FR 9655, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.12
Pleadings filed in response to a complaint.
(a) Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the Postal Service shall file its answer to a complaint within 20 days after the complaint is filed.
(b) If appropriate, the Postal Service may file a dispositive motion or otherwise move to delay disposition of the complaint. If the Postal Service files such a motion, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the period of time for filing its answer is altered as follows:
(1) If the Commission denies the motion or postpones disposition, the answer is due within 10 days of the Commission's action; or
(2) If the Commission invokes the rate or service inquiry special procedures under § 3022.13 to the complaint, the answer is due contemporaneously with the Postal Service's report under § 3023.11 of this chapter if the complaint has not been resolved by that date.
(c) If the Postal Service answer is delayed by the filing of a motion under paragraph (b) of this section, it may not obtain a further delay by filing another motion under paragraph (b) of this section raising an issue or objection that was available to the Postal Service but omitted from its earlier motion.
[74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.13
Conditions for applying rate or service inquiry procedures to complaints.
(a) This section applies to complaints that concern rate or service matters that are isolated incidents affecting few mail users provided that the complaint does not either:
(1) Raise unfair competition issues;
(2) Raise issues affecting a significant number of mail users;
(3) Represent a pattern, practice, or systemic issue that affects a significant number of mail users (or is reasonably likely to be evidence that such a pattern has begun); or
(4) Impact a substantial region of the nation.
(b) The Commission may in its discretion,
sua sponte,
attempt to resolve a complaint through the rate or service inquiry procedures of § 3023.11 of this chapter if the Commission finds that there is a reasonable likelihood that such procedures may result in resolution of the complaint. The Commission will issue an order to apply the procedures of § 3023.11 of this chapter prior to the due date for the Postal Service answer set forth in § 3022.12.
(c) If the Commission determines that application of paragraph (a) of this section is appropriate and the Postal Service is unable to resolve the complaint within 45 days, or such other period of time as ordered by the Commission, the Postal Service shall file its answer in accordance with § 3022.12(b)(2).
[74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.14
Answer contents.
(a) An answer must:
(1) Contain a clear and concise statement of any disputed factual allegations upon which the answer relies;
(2) Contain a clear and concise statement of any legal interpretation upon which the answer relies;
(3) Admit or deny, specifically and with explanatory detail, each material factual allegation of the complaint. Denials based on information and belief must include an explanation as to why such facts could not reasonably be ascertained by the Postal Service prior to filing the answer. Each fact alleged in a complaint not thus specifically answered shall be deemed to have been admitted;
(4) Set forth every defense relied upon. The answer shall advise the complainant and the Commission fully and completely of the nature of any defense, including factual allegations and law upon which the Postal Service relies. Affirmative defenses shall be specifically captioned as such and presented separately from any denials;
(5) State the nature of the evidentiary support that the Postal Service has or expects to obtain to support its factual allegations and defenses; and
(6) Include a certification that states that prior to the filing of its answer, the Postal Service met or conferred with the complainant to resolve or settle the complaint, whether the Postal Service believes additional such steps would be inappropriate and the reasons for that belief.
(b) The Commission may waive any of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section to serve the interests of justice.

# Subpart C—Supplemental Information
§ 3022.20
Sufficiency of information.
If, after review of the information submitted pursuant to this part, the Commission determines that additional information is necessary to enable it to evaluate whether the complaint raises material issues of fact or law, the Commission shall, in its discretion, either require the complainant and/or the Postal Service to provide additional information as deemed necessary, issue an appropriate order to appoint an investigator in accordance with § 3022.21, or do both.
[85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3022.21
Investigator.
The Commission may appoint an investigator to examine issues raised by the complaint and responses thereto. The investigator will use appropriate due diligence under the circumstances and provide a public, written report to the Commission.

# Subpart D—Proceedings
§ 3022.30
Beginning proceedings on complaints.
(a) Within 90 days after receiving a properly filed complaint under this part, the Commission will issue:
(1) A notice and order in accordance with § 3010.151 of this chapter that finds the complaint raises one or more material issues of fact or law and begin proceedings on the complaint; or
(2) An order dismissing the complaint.
(b) Orders issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall include the Commission's written statement setting forth the bases of its determination.
(c) Contemporaneously with, or shortly after issuing a notice and order under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Commission will appoint a public representative to represent the interests of the general public in the complaint proceeding.
[74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart E—Settlement
§ 3022.40
Policy on settlement.
It shall be the general policy and practice of the Commission to encourage alternative dispute resolution and settlement of complaints by informal procedures, such as correspondence, conferences between the parties, and the conduct of proceedings off the record with the consent of the parties.
§ 3022.41
Satisfaction.
(a) If a complaint is resolved informally, in whole or in part, subsequent to Commission action under § 3022.30(a)(1), the complainant must promptly file:
(1) A statement explaining the resolution; and
(2) A motion to dismiss or amend the complaint based on the resolution.
(b) The Commission may order the submission of additional information before acting on any motion filed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c) In determining whether to allow the complaint to be dismissed or amended under this section, the Commission will take into consideration whether the issues raised by the complaint may continue to impact a significant segment of the mailing community.
[74 FR 16744, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart F—Commission Determinations and Relief
§ 3022.50
Remedies.
(a) If the Commission finds that a complaint is justified, it will order that the Postal Service take such action as the Commission determines appropriate to:
(1) Achieve compliance with the applicable requirements; and
(2) Remedy the effects of any non-compliance.
(b) If the Commission finds deliberate non-compliance on the part of the Postal Service, the Commission may order, based on the nature, circumstances, extent, and seriousness of the non-compliance, a fine for each incidence of non-compliance.
(c) In any case where the Commission is considering the extraordinary relief described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission will provide notice to the participants that such relief is being considered. It will allow the participants a reasonable opportunity to comment and present aggravating and mitigating factors for its consideration.
Pt. 3023

# PART 3023—RULES FOR RATE OR SERVICE INQUIRIES

# Subpart A—Rate or Service Inquiry Forms and Procedures
Sec.
3023.10
Rate or service inquiry contents.
3023.11
Rate or service inquiry procedures.
3023.12
Treatment as a complaint.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503, 3662.

# Source:
74 FR 16746, Apr. 10, 2009, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—Rate or Service Inquiry Forms and Procedures
§ 3023.10
Rate or service inquiry contents.
(a) A rate or service inquiry shall be in writing and should contain:
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the inquiring party;
(2) Details regarding the Postal Service's action or inaction;
(3) A statement of facts supporting the inquiring party's allegations; and
(4) The specific relief being sought, if any.
(b) The Commission may waive any of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section to serve the interests of justice.
§ 3023.11
Rate or service inquiry procedures.
(a) The Commission will forward rate or service inquiries to the Postal Service for investigation. The Postal Service will, within 45 days of receipt of such inquiry, advise the Commission in writing, with a copy to the inquiring party, of its resolution of the inquiry or its refusal or inability to do so.
(b) The Commission will monitor all rate or service inquiries to determine if Commission action under § 3023.12 is appropriate.
(c) Where there are clear indications from the Postal Service's report or from other communications between the parties that the inquiry has been resolved, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider such proceeding to be resolved, without response to the inquiring party.
[74 FR 16746, Apr. 10, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3023.12
Treatment as a complaint.
If the Commission receives a volume of rate or service inquiries on the same or similar issue such that there may be cause to warrant treatment as a complaint, it may appoint an investigator to review the matter under § 3022.21 of this chapter or appoint a Public Representative representing the interests of the general public to pursue the matter.
[85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 3024

# PART 3024—SPECIAL RULES FOR COMPLAINTS ALLEGING VIOLATIONS OF 39 U.S.C. 404
a

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3024.1
Applicability.
3024.2-3024.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements and Defenses
3024.5
Postal Service rules that create an unfair competitive advantage.
3024.6
Disclosure, transfer, and licensing of intellectual property.
3024.7
Unlawfully obtaining information.
3024.8
Statutorily authorized affirmative defense.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 404a; 3662.

# Source:
79 FR 62294, Oct. 16, 2014, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3024.1
Applicability.
The rules in this part govern proceedings filed under 39 U.S.C. 3662 alleging violations of 39 U.S.C. 404a that meet the requirements of §§ 3022.2 and 3022.10 of this chapter.
[85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§§ 3024.2-3024.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements and Defenses
§ 3024.5
Postal Service rules that create an unfair competitive advantage.
(a) A complaint alleging a violation of 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(1) must show that a Postal Service rule, regulation, or standard has the effect of:
(1) Precluding competition; or
(2) Establishing the terms of competition.
(b) As an affirmative defense to a complaint under 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(1), the Postal Service may demonstrate that the rule, regulation, or standard at issue does not create an unfair competitive advantage for itself or any entity funded, in whole or in part, by the Postal Service.
(c) As used in this section, the term
rule, regulation, or standard
includes, among other things, documents or policies issued by the Postal Service to exercise its regulatory authority or otherwise act as a governmental entity.
[79 FR 62294, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 9656, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3024.6
Disclosure, transfer, and licensing of intellectual property.
(a) A complaint alleging a violation of 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(2) must show that the Postal Service has compelled or attempted to compel the disclosure, transfer, or licensing of the intellectual property of the person filing the complaint to a third party.
(b) As used in this section, the term
intellectual property
includes, among other things, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and proprietary information.
(c) As used in this section, the term
disclosure, transfer, or licensing of intellectual property
includes, among other things, an action that has an adverse effect on the value of intellectual property.
§ 3024.7
Unlawfully obtaining information.
(a) A complaint alleging a violation of 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(3) must show that:
(1) The person filing the complaint has provided or sought to provide a product;
(2) The Postal Service obtained information about such product from the person filing the complaint; and
(3) The Postal Service offers or offered a postal service that uses or is based, in whole or in part, on the information obtained from the person filing the complaint.
(b) As an affirmative defense to a complaint under 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(3), the Postal Service may demonstrate that substantially the same information was obtained (or was obtainable) from an independent source or is otherwise obtained (or obtainable) through lawful means.
(c) As an affirmative defense to a complaint under 39 U.S.C. 404a(a)(3), the Postal Service may show that the information obtained was provided by written consent.
§ 3024.8
Statutorily authorized affirmative defense.
(a) As an affirmative defense to an allegation of a violation of 39 U.S.C. 404a(a), the Postal Service may demonstrate that it is specifically authorized by law to take the action or inaction alleged to be a violation of that section.
(b) Authority under 39 U.S.C. 401 or 39 U.S.C. 404 may not form the basis of an affirmative defense under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not preclude the Postal Service from arguing that a particular Postal Service regulation or other action (or inaction) does not have the requisite effect to violate 39 U.S.C. 404a(a).
Pt. 3025

# PART 3025—PROCEDURES RELATED TO COMMISSION VIEWS SUBMITTED TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE
Sec.
3025.101
Definitions in this part.
3025.102
Purpose.
3025.103
Establishment and scope of docket.
3025.104
Comment deadline(s).
3025.105
Issuance of Commission views.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 407; 503.

# Source:
85 FR 13054, Mar. 6, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3025.101
Definitions in this part.
(a)
Commission views
refers to the opinion the Commission provides to the Secretary of State pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 407(c)(1) on the consistency of a relevant proposal with modern rate regulation.
(b)
Modern rate regulation
refers to the standards and criteria the Commission has established pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3622.
(c)
Relevant proposal
means a proposed change to a treaty, convention, or amendment that establishes a market dominant rate or classification.
§ 3025.102
Purpose.
The rules in this part are intended to facilitate public participation in, and promote the transparency of, the development of Commission views.
§ 3025.103
Establishment and scope of docket.
(a) On or about 150 days before a Universal Postal Union Congress convenes or such advance time as the Commission determines for any other 39 U.S.C. 407(c)(1) matter, the Commission shall establish a docket in order to solicit public comments as part of the development of Commission views.
(b) The Commission shall post relevant proposals in the applicable docket established pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and may also include other materials related to the development of Commission views, such as other documents or related actions.
(c) Public comments should focus on the specific relevant proposals posted by the Commission and the general principles that should guide the development of Commission views as well as any other materials posted in the applicable docket pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The Commission shall arrange for publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice establishing each docket authorized under this part.
§ 3025.104
Comment deadline(s).
(a) The Commission shall establish a deadline for comments upon establishment of the docket that is consistent with timely submission of Commission views to the Secretary of State. The Commission may establish other deadlines for comments as appropriate.
(b) The Commission may suspend or forego solicitation of comments if it determines that such solicitation is not consistent with timely submission of Commission views to the Secretary of State.
§ 3025.105
Issuance of Commission views.
(a) The Commission will review timely filed comments responding to a Commission solicitation pursuant to § 3025.103(a) prior to submitting its views to the Secretary of State.
(b) After Commission views are developed, the Commission shall post Commission views in the applicable docket established pursuant to § 3025.103(a) and submit Commission views to the Secretary of State pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 407(c)(1).

# SUBCHAPTER E—REGULATIONS GOVERNING MARKET DOMINANT PRODUCTS, COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS, PRODUCT LISTS, AND MARKET TESTS
Pt. 3030

# PART 3030—REGULATION OF RATES FOR MARKET DOMINANT PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3030.100
Applicability.
3030.101
Definitions.
3030.102
Schedule for regular and predictable rate adjustments.

# Subpart B—Rate Adjustments
3030.120
General.
3030.121
Postal Service rate adjustment filing.
3030.122
Contents of a rate adjustment filing.
3030.123
Supporting technical documentation.
3030.124
Docket and notice.
3030.125
Opportunity for comments.
3030.126
Proceedings.
3030.127
Maximum rate adjustment authority.
3030.128
Calculation of percentage change in rates.
3030.129
Exceptions for de minimis rate increases.

# Subpart C—Consumer Price Index Rate Authority
3030.140
Applicability.
3030.141
CPI-U data source.
3030.142
CPI-U rate authority when rate adjustment filings are 12 or more months apart.
3030.143
CPI-U rate authority when rate adjustment filings are less than 12 months apart.

# Subpart D—Density Rate Authority
3030.160
Applicability.
3030.161
Density calculation data sources.
3030.162
Calculation of density rate authority.

# Subpart E—Retirement Obligation Rate Authority
3030.180
Definitions.
3030.181
Applicability.
3030.182
Retirement obligation data sources.
3030.183
Calculation of retirement obligation rate authority.
3030.184
Required minimum remittances.
3030.185
Forfeiture.
Subpart F—[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Non-Compensatory Classes or Products
3030.220
Applicability.
3030.221
Individual product requirement.
3030.222
Class requirement and additional class rate authority.

# Subpart H—Accumulation of Unused and Disbursement of Banked Rate Adjustment Authority
3030.240
General.
3030.241
Schedule of banked rate adjustment authority.
3030.242
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that involve a rate increase which are filed 12 months apart or less.
3030.243
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that involve a rate increase which are filed more than 12 months apart.
3030.244
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that only include rate decreases.
3030.245
Application of banked rate authority.

# Subpart I—Rate Adjustments Due to Extraordinary and Exceptional Circumstances
3030.260
General.
3030.261
Contents of a rate adjustment filing.
3030.262
Supplemental information.
3030.263
Docket and notice.
3030.264
Public hearing.
3030.265
Opportunity for comments.
3030.266
Deadline for Commission decision.
3030.267
Treatment of banked rate adjustment authority.

# Subpart J—Workshare Discounts
3030.280
Applicability.
3030.281
Calculation of passthroughs for workshare discounts.
3030.282
Increased pricing efficiency.
3030.283
Limitations on excessive discounts.
3030.284
Limitations on discounts below avoided cost.
3030.285
Proposal to adjust a rate associated with a workshare discount.
3030.286
Application for waiver.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3622.

# Source:
85 FR 81126, Dec. 15, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 3030.100
Applicability.
(a) The rules in this part implement provisions in 39 U.S.C. chapter 36, subchapter I, establishing the modern system of ratemaking for regulating rates and classes for market dominant products. The rules in this part are applicable whenever the Postal Service proposes to adjust a rate of general applicability for any market dominant product, which includes the addition of a new rate, the removal of an existing rate, or a change to an existing rate. Current rates may be found in the Mail Classification Schedule appearing on the Commission's website at
www.prc.gov.
(b) Rates may be adjusted either subject to the rules appearing in subpart B of this part, which includes a limitation on rate increases, or subject to the rules appearing in subpart I of this part, which does not include a limitation on rate increases but requires either extraordinary or exceptional circumstances. The rules applicable to the calculation of the limitations on rate increases appear in subparts C through H of this part. The rules for workshare discounts, which are applicable whenever market dominant rates are adjusted, appear in subpart J of this part.
§ 3030.101
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section apply to this part.
(b)
Annual limitation
means the annual limitation on the percentage change in rates equal to the change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) unadjusted for seasonal variation over the most recently available 12-month period preceding the date the Postal Service files a request to review its notice of rate adjustment, as determined by the Commission.
(c)
Banked rate authority
means unused rate adjustment authority accumulated for future use pursuant to the rules in this part.
(d) A
class
of mail means the First-Class Mail, USPS Marketing Mail, Periodicals, Package Services, or Special Services groupings of market dominant Postal Service products or services. Generally, the regulations in this part are applicable to individual classes of mail.
(e)
Density rate authority
means rate authority that is available to all classes to address the effects of decreases in density of mail.
(f)
Maximum rate adjustment authority
means the maximum percentage change in rates available to a class for any planned increase in rates. It is the sum of: The consumer price index rate authority, and any available density rate authority, retirement obligation rate authority, banked rate authority, and rate authority applicable to non-compensatory classes.
(g)
Rate authority applicable to non-compensatory classes
means rate authority available to classes where revenue for each product within the class was insufficient to cover that product's attributable costs as determined by the Commission.
(h)
Rate cell
means each and every separate rate identified as a rate of general applicability.
(i)
Rate incentive
means a discount that is not a workshare discount and that is designed to increase or retain volume, improve the value of mail for mailers, or improve the operations of the Postal Service.
(j)
Rate incentive comparison period
is a period of time in the fiscal year or calendar year immediately before a rate incentive that is not a rate of general applicability is offered. A rate incentive comparison period must be not less than 3 months in length and not more than 12 months in length. Except for a rate incentive that is not a rate of general applicability that has a term of 1 calendar year, the rate incentive comparison period is the same period of months and days in the fiscal year or calendar year immediately before the rate incentive is offered as the term of the rate incentive. For any rate incentive that is not a rate of general applicability that has a term of 1 calendar year, the rate incentive comparison period shall be either: the calendar year that is most recently ended before the rate incentive is offered; or the fiscal year that is most recently
ended before the rate incentive is offered.
(k)
Rate of general applicability
means a rate applicable to all mail meeting standards established by the Mail Classification Schedule, the Domestic Mail Manual, and the International Mail Manual. A rate is not a rate of general applicability if eligibility for the rate is dependent on factors other than the characteristics of the mail to which the rate applies. A rate incentive is not a rate of general applicability if eligibility for the rate is wholly or partially dependent on the volume of mail sent by a mailer in a past year or years or on the participation by a mailer in a rate incentive or promotion in a past year or years. A rate is not a rate of general applicability if it benefits only a single mailer. A rate that is only available upon the written agreement of both the Postal Service and a mailer, a group of mailers, or a foreign postal operator is not a rate of general applicability.
(l)
Retirement obligation rate authority
means rate authority that is available to all classes to provide revenue for remittance towards the statutorily mandated amortization payments for unfunded liabilities.
(m) A
seasonal or temporary rate
is a rate that is in effect for a limited and defined period of time.
[85 FR 81126, Dec. 15, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 10690, Feb. 26, 2025]
§ 3030.102
Schedule for regular and predictable rate adjustments.
(a) The Postal Service shall develop a Schedule for Regular and Predictable Rate Adjustments applicable to rate adjustments subject to this part. The Schedule for Regular and Predictable Rate Adjustments shall:
(1) Schedule rate adjustments at specific regular intervals of time;
(2) Provide estimated filing and implementation dates (month and year) for future rate adjustments for each class of mail expected over a minimum of the next 3 years; and
(3) Provide an explanation that will allow mailers to predict with reasonable accuracy, by class, the amounts of future scheduled rate adjustments.
(b) The Postal Service shall file a current Schedule for Regular and Predictable Rate Adjustments annually with the Commission at the time of filing the Postal Service's section 3652 report (see § 3050.1(g) of this chapter). The Commission shall post the current schedule on the Commission's website at
www.prc.gov.
(c) Whenever the Postal Service deems it appropriate to change the Schedule for Regular and Predictable Rate Adjustments, it shall file a revised schedule.
(d) The Postal Service may vary the magnitude of rate adjustments from those estimated by the Schedule for Regular and Predictable Rate Adjustments. In such case, the Postal Service shall provide an explanation for such variation with its rate adjustment filing.

# Subpart B—Rate Adjustments
§ 3030.120
General.
This subpart describes the process for the periodic adjustment of rates subject to the percentage limitations specified in § 3030.127 that are applicable to each class of mail.
§ 3030.121
Postal Service rate adjustment filing.
(a) In every instance in which the Postal Service determines to exercise its statutory authority to adjust rates for a class of mail, the Postal Service shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) The Postal Service shall take into consideration how the planned rate adjustments are in accordance with the provisions of 39 U.S.C. chapter 36.
(c) The Postal Service shall provide public notice of its planned rate adjustments in a manner reasonably designed to inform the mailing community and the general public that it intends to adjust rates no later than 90 days prior to the planned implementation date of the rate adjustments.
(d) The Postal Service shall file a request to review its notice of rate adjustment with the Commission no later than 90 days prior to the planned implementation date of the rate adjustment.
§ 3030.122
Contents of a rate adjustment filing.
(a) A rate adjustment filing under § 3030.121 shall include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section.
(b) A representation or evidence that public notice of the planned changes has been issued or will be issued at least 90 days before the effective date(s) for the planned rate adjustments.
(c) The intended effective date(s) of the planned rate adjustments.
(d) A schedule of the planned rate adjustments, including a schedule identifying every change to the Mail Classification Schedule that will be necessary to implement the planned rate adjustments.
(e) The identity of a responsible Postal Service official who will be available to provide prompt responses to requests for clarification from the Commission.
(f) The supporting technical documentation as described in § 3030.123.
(g) A demonstration that the planned rate adjustments are consistent with 39 U.S.C. 3626, 3627, and 3629.
(h) A certification that all cost, avoided cost, volume, and revenue figures submitted with the rate adjustment filing are developed from the most recent applicable Commission accepted analytical principles.
(i) For a rate adjustment that only includes a decrease in rates, a statement of whether the Postal Service elects to generate unused rate adjustment authority.
(j) Such other information as the Postal Service believes will assist the Commission in issuing a timely determination of whether the planned rate adjustments are consistent with applicable statutory policies.
§ 3030.123
Supporting technical documentation.
(a) Supporting technical documentation shall include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section, as applicable to the specific rate adjustment filing. This information must be supported by workpapers in which all calculations are shown and all relevant values (
e.g.,
rates, CPI-U values, billing determinants) are identified with citations to original sources. The information must be submitted in machine-readable, electronic format. Spreadsheet cells must be linked to underlying data sources or calculations (not hard-coded), as appropriate.
(b) The maximum rate adjustment authority, by class, as summarized by § 3030.127 and calculated separately for each of subparts C through H of this part, as appropriate.
(c) A schedule showing the banked rate adjustment authority available, by class, and the available amount for each of the preceding 5 years calculated as required by subpart H of this part.
(d) The calculation of the percentage change in rates, by class, calculated as required by § 3030.128.
(e) The planned usage of rate adjustment authority, by class, and calculated separately for each of subparts C through H of this part, as appropriate.
(f) The amount of new unused rate adjustment authority, by class, if any, that will be generated by the rate adjustment calculated as required by subpart H of this part, as applicable.
(g) A schedule of the workshare discounts included with the planned rate adjustments, and a companion schedule listing the avoided costs that underlie each such discount.
(h) Whenever the Postal Service establishes a new workshare discount rate, it must include with its filing:
(1) A statement explaining its reasons for establishing the workshare discount;
(2) All data, economic analyses, and other information relied on to justify the workshare discount; and
(3) A certification based on comprehensive, competent analyses that the discount will not adversely affect either the rates or the service levels of users of postal services who do not take advantage of the workshare discount.
(i) Whenever the Postal Service establishes a new discount or surcharge rate it does not view as creating a workshare discount, it must include with its filing:
(1) An explanation of the basis for its view that the discount or surcharge rate is not a workshare discount; and
(2) A certification that the Postal Service applied accepted analytical principles to the discount or surcharge rate.
(j) Whenever the Postal Service includes a rate incentive with its planned rate adjustment, it must include with its filing:
(1) Whether the rate incentive is being treated under § 3030.128(f)(2) or under § 3030.128(f)(1) and (g);
(2) If the Postal Service seeks to include the rate incentive in the calculation of the percentage change in rates under § 3030.128(f)(2):
(i) The terms and conditions of the rate incentive;
(ii) The factors that determine eligibility for the rate incentive;
(iii) A statement that affirms that the rate incentive will not benefit only a single mailer;
(iv) A statement that affirms that the rate incentive is not only available upon the written agreement of both the Postal Service and a mailer, or group of mailers, or a foreign postal operator;
(v) A statement describing the purpose of the rate incentive; and
(vi) An estimate of the effect of the rate incentive on mailers in the affected class that do not participate in the rate incentive and all information and calculations relied upon to develop such estimate.
(k) For each class or product where the attributable cost for that class or product exceeded the revenue from that class or product as determined by the Commission, a demonstration that the planned rate adjustments comply with the requirements in subpart G of this part.
[85 FR 81126, Dec. 15, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 10690, Feb. 26, 2025]
§ 3030.124
Docket and notice.
(a) The Commission will establish a docket for each rate adjustment filed by the Postal Service under § 3030.121, promptly publish notice of the filing in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(b) The general nature of the proceeding.
(c) A reference to legal authority under which the proceeding is to be conducted.
(d) A concise description of the planned changes in rates, fees, and the Mail Classification Schedule.
(e) The identification of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket.
(f) A period of 30 days from the date of the filing for public comment.
(g) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
§ 3030.125
Opportunity for comments.
Public comments should focus on whether planned rate adjustments comport with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
§ 3030.126
Proceedings.
(a) If the Commission determines that the rate adjustment filing does not substantially comply with the requirements of §§ 3030.122 and 3030.123, the Commission may:
(1) Inform the Postal Service of the deficiencies and provide an opportunity for the Postal Service to take corrective action;
(2) Toll or otherwise modify the procedural schedule until such time the Postal Service takes corrective action;
(3) Dismiss the rate adjustment filing without prejudice; or
(4) Take other action as deemed appropriate by the Commission.
(b) Within 21 days of the conclusion of the public comment period the Commission will determine whether the planned rate adjustments are consistent with applicable law and issue an order announcing its findings. Applicable law means only the applicable requirements of this part, Commission directives and orders, and 39 U.S.C. 3626, 3627, and 3629.
(c) If the planned rate adjustments are found consistent with applicable law, they may take effect.
(d) If the planned rate adjustments are found inconsistent with applicable law, the Commission will notify and require the Postal Service to respond to any issues of noncompliance.
(e) Following the Commission's notice of noncompliance, the Postal Service may submit an amended rate adjustment filing that describes the modifications to its planned rate adjustments that will bring its rate adjustments into compliance. An amended rate adjustment filing shall be accompanied by sufficient explanatory information to show that all deficiencies identified by the Commission have been corrected.
(f) The Commission will allow a period of 10 days from the date of the amended rate adjustment filing for public comment.
(g) The Commission will review the amended rate adjustment filing together with any comments filed for compliance and issue an order announcing its findings within 21 days after the comment period ends.
(h) If the planned rate adjustments as amended are found to be consistent with applicable law, they may take effect. However, no amended rate shall take effect until 45 days after the Postal Service transmits its rate adjustment filing specifying that rate.
(i) If the planned rate adjustments in an amended rate adjustment filing are found to be inconsistent with applicable law, the Commission shall explain the basis for its determination and suggest an appropriate remedy. Noncompliant rates may not go into effect.
(j) A Commission finding that a planned rate adjustment is in compliance with the applicable requirements of this part, Commission directives and orders, and 39 U.S.C. 3626, 3627, and 3629 is decided on the merits. A Commission finding that a planned rate adjustment does not contravene other policies of 39 U.S.C. chapter 36, subchapter I, is provisional and subject to subsequent review.
§ 3030.127
Maximum rate adjustment authority.
(a) The maximum rate adjustment authority available to the Postal Service for each class of market dominant mail is limited to the sum of the percentage points developed in subparts C through E and G through H of this part.
(b) For any product where the attributable cost for that product exceeded the revenue from that product as determined by the Commission, rates may not be reduced.
§ 3030.128
Calculation of percentage change in rates.
(a) For the purpose of calculating the percentage change in rates, the current rate is the rate in effect at the time of the rate adjustment filing under § 3030.121 with the following exceptions:
(1) A seasonal or temporary rate shall be identified and treated as a rate cell separate and distinct from the corresponding non-seasonal or permanent rate. When used with respect to a seasonal or temporary rate, the current rate is the most recent rate in effect for the rate cell, regardless of whether the seasonal or temporary rate is available at the time of the rate adjustment filing.
(2) When used with respect to a rate cell that corresponds to a rate incentive that was previously excluded from the calculation of the percentage change in rates, the current rate is the full undiscounted rate in effect for the rate cell at the time of the rate adjustment filing, not the discounted rate in effect for the rate cell at such time.
(b) For the purpose of calculating the percentage change in rates, the volume for each rate cell shall be obtained from the most recently available 12 months of Postal Service billing determinants with the following permissible adjustments:
(1) The Postal Service shall make reasonable adjustments to the billing determinants to account for the effects of classification changes such as the introduction, deletion, or redefinition of rate cells. The Postal Service shall identify and explain all adjustments. All information and calculations relied upon to develop the adjustments shall be provided together with an explanation of why the adjustments are appropriate.
(2) Whenever possible, adjustments shall be based on known mail characteristics or historical volume data, as opposed to forecasts of mailer behavior.
(3) For an adjustment accounting for the effects of the deletion of a rate cell when an alternate rate cell is not
available, the Postal Service should adjust the billing determinants associated with the rate cell to 0. If the Postal Service does not adjust the billing determinants for the rate cell to 0, the Postal Service shall include a rationale for its treatment of the rate cell with the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) For a rate adjustment that involves a rate increase, for each class of mail and product within the class, the percentage change in rates is calculated in three steps. First, the volume of each rate cell in the class is multiplied by the planned rate for the respective cell and the resulting products are summed. Second, the same set of rate cell volumes is multiplied by the corresponding current rate for each cell and the resulting products are summed. Third, the percentage change in rates is calculated by dividing the results of the first step by the results of the second step and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage.
(d) For rate adjustments that only involve a rate decrease, for each class of mail and product within the class, the percentage change in rates is calculated by amending the workpapers attached to the Commission's order relating to the most recent rate adjustment filing that involved a rate increase to replace the planned rates under the most recent rate adjustment filing that involves a rate increase with the corresponding planned rates applicable to the class from the rate adjustment filing involving only a rate decrease.
(e) The formula for calculating the percentage change in rates for a class, described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.000
Where:
N = number of rate cells in the class.
i = denotes a rate cell (i = 1, 2, . . ., N).
Ri,n = planned rate of rate cell i.
Ri,c = current rate of rate cell i (for rate adjustment involving a rate increase) or rate from most recent rate adjustment involving a rate increase for rate cell i (for a rate adjustment only involving a rate decrease).
Vi = volume of rate cell i.
(f)(1) Rate incentives may be excluded from a percentage change in rates calculation. If the Postal Service elects to exclude a rate incentive from a percentage change in rates calculation, the rate incentive shall be treated in the same manner as a rate under a negotiated service agreement (as described in paragraph (g) of this section).
(2) A rate incentive may be included in a percentage change in rates calculation if it meets the following criteria:
(i) The rate incentive is in the form of a discount or can be easily translated into a discount;
(ii) Sufficient billing determinants are available for the rate incentive to be included in the percentage change in rate calculation for the class, which may be adjusted based on known mail characteristics or historical volume data (as opposed to forecasts of mailer behavior); and
(iii) The rate incentive is either:
(A) A rate of general applicability; or
(B) A rate not of general applicability that satisfies the following requirements:
(
1
) The rate incentive is not only available upon the written agreement of both the Postal Service and a mailer, or group of mailers, or a foreign postal operator;
(
2
) The rate incentive is applicable to all mail meeting standards established by the Mail Classification Schedule, the Domestic Mail Manual, and the International Mail Manual;
(
3
) The rate incentive does not benefit only a single mailer;
(
4
) The rate incentive is designed to increase volume; and
(
5
) A mailer's eligibility for the rate incentive depends on the mailer's sending, in a specified period of time, a volume of mail of specified products that exceeds a specified threshold volume of mail, provided that such threshold volume of mail is not less than the volume of the specified products that the mailer sent in the rate incentive comparison period.
(3) The Commission may require submission of such information as it deems necessary to ensure that rate incentives included in the percentage change in rates calculation comply with the requirements of this section.
(g)(1) Mail volumes sent at rates under a negotiated service agreement or a rate incentive that is not a rate of general applicability are to be included in the calculation of the percentage change in rates under this section as though they paid the appropriate rates of general applicability, except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Where it is impractical to identify the rates of general applicability (
e.g.,
because unique rate categories are created for a mailer), the volumes associated with the mail sent under the terms of the negotiated service agreement or the rate incentive that is not a rate of general applicability shall be excluded from the calculation of the percentage change in rates.
(2) The Postal Service shall identify and explain all assumptions it makes with respect to the treatment of negotiated service agreements and rate incentives that are not rates of general applicability in the calculation of the percentage change in rates and provide the rationale for its assumptions.
[85 FR 81126, Dec. 15, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 10690, Feb. 26, 2025]
§ 3030.129
Exceptions for de minimis rate increases.
(a) The Postal Service may request that the Commission review a de minimis rate increase without immediately calculating the maximum rate adjustment authority or banking unused rate adjustment authority. For the exception in this paragraph (a) to apply, requests to review de minimis rate adjustments must be filed separately from any other request to review a rate adjustment filing.
(b) Rate adjustments resulting in rate increases are de minimis if:
(1) For each affected class, the rate increases do not result in the percentage change in rates for the class equaling or exceeding 0.001 percent; and
(2) For each affected class, the sum of all rate increases included in de minimis rate increases since the most recent rate adjustment resulting in a rate increase, or the most recent rate adjustment due to extraordinary and exceptional circumstances, that was not a de minimis rate increase does not result in the percentage change in rates for the class equaling or exceeding 0.001 percent.
(c) If the rate adjustments are de minimis, no unused rate adjustment authority will be added to the schedule of banked rate adjustment authority maintained under subpart G of this part as a result of the de minimis rate increase.
(d) If the rate adjustments are de minimis, no rate decreases may be taken into account when determining whether rate increases comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(e) In the next rate adjustment filing proposing to increase rates for a class that is not a de minimis rate increase:
(1) The maximum rate adjustment authority shall be calculated as if the de minimis rate increase had not been filed; and
(2) For purposes of calculating the percentage change in rates, the current rate shall be the current rate from the de minimis rate increase.
(f) The Postal Service shall file supporting workpapers with each request to review a de minimis rate increase that demonstrate that the sum of all rate increases included in de minimis rate increases since the most recent rate adjustment resulting in a rate increase that was not de minimis, or the most recent rate adjustment due to extraordinary and exceptional circumstances, does not result in a percentage change in rates for the class equaling or exceeding 0.001 percent.
(g) For any product where the attributable cost for that product exceeded the revenue from that product as determined by the Commission, rates may not be reduced.

# Subpart C—Consumer Price Index Rate Authority
§ 3030.140
Applicability.
The Postal Service may adjust rates based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) identified in § 3030.141. If rate adjustment filings involving rate increases are filed 12 or more months apart, rate adjustments are subject to a full year limitation calculated pursuant to § 3030.142. If rate adjustment filings involving rate increases are filed less than 12 months apart, rate adjustments are subject to a partial year limitation calculated pursuant to § 3030.143.
§ 3030.141
CPI-U data source.
The monthly CPI-U values needed for the calculation of rate adjustment limitations under this subpart shall be obtained from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Consumer Price Index—All Urban Consumers, U.S. All Items, Not Seasonally Adjusted, Base Period 1982-84 = 100. The current Series ID for the index is “CUUR0000SA0.”
§ 3030.142
CPI-U rate authority when rate adjustment filings are 12 or more months apart.
(a) If a rate adjustment filing involving a rate increase is filed 12 or more months after the most recent rate adjustment filing involving a rate increase, then the calculation of an annual limitation for the class (full year limitation) involves three steps. First, a simple average CPI-U index is calculated by summing the most recently available 12 monthly CPI-U values from the date of the rate adjustment filing and dividing the sum by 12 (Recent Average). Second, a second simple average CPI-U index is similarly calculated by summing the 12 monthly CPI-U values immediately preceding the Recent Average and dividing the sum by 12 (Base Average). Third, the full year limitation is calculated by dividing the Recent Average by the Base Average and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage, rounded to three decimal places.
(b) The formula for calculating a full year limitation for a rate adjustment filing filed 12 or more months after the last rate adjustment filing is as follows: Full Year Limitation = (Recent Average/Base Average)−1.
§ 3030.143
CPI-U rate authority when rate adjustment filings are less than 12 months apart.
(a) If a rate adjustment filing involving a rate increase is filed less than 12 months after the most recent rate adjustment filing involving a rate increase, then the annual limitation for the class (partial year limitation) will recognize the rate increases that have occurred during the preceding 12 months. When the effects of those increases are removed, the remaining partial year limitation is the applicable restriction on rate increases.
(b) The applicable partial year limitation is calculated in two steps. First, a simple average CPI-U index is calculated by summing the 12 most recently available monthly CPI-U values from the date of the rate adjustment filing and dividing the sum by 12 (Recent Average). Second, the partial year limitation is then calculated by dividing the Recent Average by the Recent Average from the most recent previous rate adjustment filing (Previous Recent Average) applicable to each affected class of mail and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage, rounded to three decimal places.
(c) The formula for calculating the partial year limitation for a rate adjustment filing filed less than 12 months after the last rate adjustment filing is as follows: Partial Year Limitation = (Recent Average/Previous Recent Average)−1.

# Subpart D—Density Rate Authority
§ 3030.160
Applicability.
(a) This subpart allocates rate authority to address the effects of decreases in the density of mail as measured by the sources identified in § 3030.161. The calculation of the additional rate authority corresponding to the change in density is described in § 3030.162.
(b) The Postal Service shall file a notice with the Commission by December 31 of each year that calculates the
amount of density rate authority that is eligible to be authorized under this subpart.
(c) The Commission shall review the Postal Service's notice and determine how much, if any, rate authority will be authorized under this subpart. Any rate authority allocated under this subpart:
(1) Shall be made available to the Postal Service as of the date of the Commission's determination;
(2) Must be included in the calculation of the maximum rate adjustment authority in the first generally applicable rate adjustment filed after the Commission's determination; and
(3) May be used to generate unused rate authority, if unused, within 12 months of the Commission's announcement.
§ 3030.161
Density calculation data sources.
(a) The data needed for the calculation of the density rate authority in § 3030.162 shall be obtained from the values reported by the Postal Service as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. When both originally filed and annually revised data are available, the originally filed data shall be used. When the originally filed data are corrected through a refiling or in the Commission's Annual Compliance Determination report, the corrected version of the originally filed data shall be used.
(b) Market dominant volume and total volume from the Revenue, Pieces, and Weight report, filed by the Postal Service under § 3050.25 of this chapter;
(c) Institutional costs and total costs from the Cost and Revenue Analysis report, filed with the Postal Service's section 3652 report (see § 3050.1(g) of this chapter); and
(d) The number of delivery points, from the input data used to produce the Total Factor Productivity estimates, filed with the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
§ 3030.162
Calculation of density rate authority.
(a)
Formulas.
(1) The formula for calculating the amount of density rate authority, in conformance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.001
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
T-1 = fiscal year prior to fiscal year T.
IC
T
= institutional cost in fiscal year T.
TC
T
= total cost in fiscal year T.
%ΔD
[T-1,T]
= Percentage change in density from fiscal year T-1 to fiscal year T.
(2) The formula for calculating the percentage change in density, in conformance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.002
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
T-1 = fiscal year prior to fiscal year T.
V
T
= volume in fiscal year T (either market dominant volume or total volume as discussed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
DP
T
= delivery points in fiscal year T.
(b)
Calculation.
(1) The amount of density rate authority available under
this section shall be calculated in three steps. First, the percentage change in density during the most recently completed fiscal year shall be calculated using the formula in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Second, this percentage change shall be multiplied by the institutional cost ratio, which is calculated as institutional costs for the most recently completed fiscal year divided by total costs for that fiscal year. Finally, this product shall be multiplied by negative 1 so that declines in density correspond to a positive increase in rates. If the result of this calculation is less than 0, the amount of additional rate authority shall be 0.
(2) The percentage change in density from the prior fiscal year shall be calculated as the ratio of volume to delivery points for the most recently completed fiscal year, divided by the same ratio for the prior fiscal year, and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage, rounded to three decimal places. To ensure that decreases in competitive product volume will not result in the Postal Service receiving greater additional rate adjustment authority under this subpart, the percentage change in density shall be calculated two ways: Using market dominant volume and using total volume. The greater of the two results (not using absolute value) shall be used as the percentage change in density from the prior fiscal year.

# Subpart E—Retirement Obligation Rate Authority
§ 3030.180
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to this subpart.
(b)
Amortization payments
mean the amounts that the Postal Service is invoiced by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management to provide for the liquidation of the specific and supplemental unfunded liabilities by statutorily predetermined dates, as described in § 3030.182(a).
(c)
Phase-in period
means the period of time spanning the fiscal years of issuance of the first five determinations following January 14, 2021, as specified by the timing provisions in § 3030.181.
(d)
Required minimum remittance
means the minimum amount the Postal Service is required to remit during a particular fiscal year, as calculated under § 3030.184.
(e)
Revenue collected under this subpart
means the amount of revenue collected during a fiscal year as a result of all previous rate increases authorized under this subpart, as calculated under § 3030.184.
§ 3030.181
Applicability.
(a) This subpart allocates additional rate authority to provide the Postal Service with revenue for remittance towards the statutorily mandated amortization payments for supplemental and unfunded liabilities identified in § 3030.182. As described in § 3030.184, for retirement obligation rate authority to be made available, the Postal Service must annually remit towards these amortization payments all revenue collected under this subpart previously. The full retirement obligation rate authority, calculated as described in § 3030.183, shall be phased in over 5 fiscal years, taking into account changes in volume during the phase-in period. If combined with an equal rate increase on Competitive products, the compounded rate increase resulting from retirement obligation rate authority is calculated to generate sufficient additional revenue at the end of the phase-in period to permit the Postal Service to remit the entire invoiced amount of its amortization payments.
(b) Until the conclusion of the phase-in period, the Postal Service shall file a notice with the Commission by December 31 of each year that calculates the amount of retirement obligation rate authority that is eligible to be authorized under this subpart.
(c) The Commission shall review the Postal Service's notice and determine how much, if any, rate authority will be authorized under this subpart. Any rate authority allocated under this subpart:
(1) Shall be made available to the Postal Service as of the date of the Commission's determination;
(2) Must be included in the calculation of the maximum rate adjustment
authority in the first generally applicable rate adjustment filed after the Commission's determination;
(3) Shall lapse if not used in the first generally applicable rate adjustment filed after the Commission's determination;
(4) Shall lapse if unused, within 12 months of the Commission's determination, however this paragraph (c)(4) shall not prohibit the Postal Service from making a stand-alone adjustment to one or two generally applicable rate cells, if such a case were to be followed by a broader rate adjustment in the class later in the same fiscal year; and
(5) May not be used to generate unused rate authority, nor shall it affect existing banked rate authority.
§ 3030.182
Retirement obligation data sources.
(a) The amounts of the amortization payments needed for the calculation of retirement obligation rate adjustment authority in § 3030.183 shall be obtained from notifications to the Postal Service by the Office of Personnel Management of annual determinations of the funding amounts specific to payments at the end of each fiscal year for Retiree Health Benefits as computed under 5 U.S.C. 8909a(d)(2)(B) and (d)(3)(B)(ii); the Civil Service Retirement System as computed under 5 U.S.C. 8348(h)(2)(B); and the Federal Employees Retirement System as computed under 5 U.S.C. 8423(b)(1)(B), (b)(2), and (b)(3)(B), filed with the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
(b) The values for market dominant revenue, total revenue and market dominant volumes needed for the calculation of retirement obligation rate authority in § 3030.183 shall be obtained from values reported in the Revenue, Pieces, and Weight report, filed by the Postal Service under § 3050.25 of this chapter.
(c) The values for additional rate authority previously provided under this subpart, if any, needed for the calculation of retirement obligation rate authority in § 3030.183 and the calculation of required minimum remittances under § 3030.184 shall be obtained from the Commission's prior determinations.
§ 3030.183
Calculation of retirement obligation rate authority.
(a)
Formulas.
(1) The formula for calculating the amount of retirement obligation rate authority available under this subpart, described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.003
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
AP
T
= total amortization payment for fiscal year T.
TR
T
= total revenue in fiscal year T.
PARA
T
= previously authorized retirement obligation rate authority, compounded through fiscal year T, expressed as a proportion of the market dominant rate base and calculated using the formula in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
N = number of previously issued determinations in which retirement obligation rate authority was made available under this subpart.
(2) The formula for calculating the amount of previously authorized retirement obligation rate authority through fiscal year T, described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.004
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
r
t
= retirement obligation rate authority authorized in fiscal year T.
N = number of previously issued determinations in which retirement obligation rate authority was made available under this subpart.
(b)
Calculations.
(1) The amount of retirement obligation rate authority available for a fiscal year shall be calculated in four steps. First, the ratio of the total amortization payment for the fiscal year under review to the total revenue in the fiscal year under review shall be added to 1. This sum represents the factor by which an equal increase in market dominant and competitive rates in the fiscal year under review would generate sufficient additional revenue to make the full amortization payment. It does not account, however, for any previous rate authority authorized under this subpart. The second step is therefore to subtract the proportion of the market dominant rate base resulting from previously authorized retirement obligation rate authority. That proportion is calculated using the formula in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Third, to amortize the resulting amount of retirement obligation rate authority over the remainder of the phase-in period, the difference shall be raised to the power of the inverse of the number of determinations remaining in the phase-in period, including the current determination. Finally, 1 shall be subtracted from the result to convert from a proportional change in rates to a percentage of rate adjustment authority.
(2) The amount of previously authorized retirement obligation rate authority shall be calculated in two steps. First, the sums of 1 and the amount of retirement obligation rate authority authorized in each of the previous fiscal years shall be multiplied together. This product represents the compounded amount of such rate authority, expressed as a net rate increase. To express this product as a proportion of the market dominant rate base, the second step is to subtract the inverse of this product from 1.
§ 3030.184
Required minimum remittances.
(a)
Minimum remittances.
During each fiscal year subsequent to January 14, 2021, the Postal Service shall remit towards the liabilities identified in § 3030.182 an amount equal to or greater than the amount of revenue collected as a result of all previous rate increases under this subpart during the previous fiscal year, as calculated using the formulas in paragraph (b) of this section, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Formulas.
(1) The formula for calculating the amount of revenue collected under this subpart during a fiscal year, described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.005
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
MDR
T
= market dominant revenue in fiscal year T.
N = number of previously issued determinations in which retirement obligation rate authority was made available under this subpart.
r
t
= retirement obligation rate authority authorized in fiscal year
t.
p
t
= prorated fraction of r
t
that was in effect during fiscal year T, calculated using the formula in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) The formula for calculating the prorated fraction of retirement obligation rate authority authorized in a particular fiscal year
t
that was in effect during the most recently completed fiscal year, described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, is as follows:
ER15DE20.006
Where:
T = most recently completed fiscal year.
r
t
= retirement obligation rate authority authorized under this subpart in fiscal year
t.
Q = the number of the quarter during the fiscal year of the effective date of the price increase including retirement obligation rate authority made available under this subpart.
E
Q
= number of days in quarter Q subsequent to and including the effective date of the price increase.
D
Q
= total number of days in quarter Q.
QMDV
Q
= market dominant volume in quarter Q.
MDV
T
= market dominant volume in fiscal year T.
(c)
Calculations.
(1) The amount of revenue collected under this subpart during a fiscal year, as calculated by the formula in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall be calculated in three steps. First, the sums of 1 and the amount of retirement obligation rate authority made available under this subpart during each previous fiscal year—prorated to account for mid-year price increases as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section—shall be multiplied together. This product represents the proportion by which prices were higher during the most recently completed fiscal year as a result of retirement obligation rate authority. Second, to express this net price increase as a proportion of market dominant revenue, the inverse of this product shall be subtracted from 1. Finally, the result shall be multiplied by market dominant revenue for the fiscal year to change the proportion into a dollar amount.
(2)(i) The prorated fraction of retirement obligation rate authority authorized in a particular fiscal year that was in effect during the most recently completed fiscal year, as calculated by the formula in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall be a piecewise function of three parts. First, if the retirement obligation rate authority authorized in a particular year was not in effect during the most recently completed fiscal year, the prorated fraction shall be 0. Second, if the retirement obligation rate authority authorized in a particular year was in effect during the entirety of the most recently completed fiscal year, the prorated fraction shall be 1. Finally, if the retirement obligation rate authority authorized in a particular fiscal year was used to raise prices during the most recently completed fiscal year, the prorated fraction shall be the proportion of volume sent during the fiscal year after that rate increase went into effect.
(ii) The proportion in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall be calculated in four steps. First, the number of days of the fiscal quarter after and
including the effective date of the price adjustment including the retirement obligation rate authority shall be divided by the total number of days in that fiscal quarter. This quotient determines the proportion of days in that quarter in which the higher rates were in effect. Second, that quotient shall be multiplied by the market dominant volume from that fiscal quarter to determine the amount of volume during the quarter receiving the higher rates. Third, that product shall be added to the market dominant volume from any subsequent quarters of the fiscal year because the volume in those quarters was also sent under the higher rates. Finally, this sum shall be divided by the total market dominant volume from the fiscal year to determine the proportion of annual volume sent after the rate increase went into effect.
§ 3030.185
Forfeiture.
(a) If any of the circumstances described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section occur, the Postal Service shall not be eligible for future retirement obligation rate authority under this subpart, and the Commission may commence additional proceedings as appropriate.
(b) If, subsequent to March 1, 2021, and prior to the end of the phase-in period, the Postal Service fails to timely file the notice required under § 3030.181(b);
(c) In any fiscal year in which retirement obligation rate authority was determined to be available under this subpart, the Postal Service fails to timely file under § 3030.122 for a rate increase including the full amount of retirement obligation rate authority authorized under this subpart during that fiscal year, to take effect prior to the end of that fiscal year; or
(d) In any fiscal year including or subsequent to the first fiscal year in which rate authority under this subpart was used to adjust market dominant rates, the Postal Service's total payments towards the supplemental and unfunded liabilities identified in § 3030.182 are not equal to or greater than the minimum remittance required for that fiscal year under § 3030.184(a).
Subpart F—[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Non-compensatory Classes or Products
§ 3030.220
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable to a class or product where the attributable cost for that class or product exceeded the revenue from that class or product as determined by the Commission. Section 3030.221 is applicable where the attributable cost for a product within a class exceeded the revenue from that particular product where the product is classified within a class where the overall class revenue exceeded the attributable cost for that class. Section 3030.222 is applicable where the attributable cost for an entire class exceeded the revenue from that class.
§ 3030.221
Individual product requirement.
Whenever the Postal Service files a rate adjustment filing affecting a class of mail which includes a product where the attributable cost for that product exceeded the revenue from that product, as determined by the Commission, the Postal Service shall increase the rates for each non-compensatory product by a minimum of 2 percentage points above the percentage increase for that class. This section does not create additional rate authority applicable to any class of mail. This section only applies to products classified within classes for which the overall class revenue exceeded the attributable cost for that class. This section does not apply to a non-compensatory product for which the Commission has determined that the Postal Service lacks independent authority to set rates (such as rates set by treaty obligation).
§ 3030.222
Class requirement and additional class rate authority.
(a) This section provides 2 percentage points of additional rate authority for any class of mail where the attributable cost for that class exceeded the revenue from that class as determined by the Commission. This additional rate authority is optional and may be used at the Postal Service's discretion.
(b) The Commission shall announce how much, if any, rate authority will be authorized under this subpart. Any
rate authority allocated under this subpart:
(1) Shall be made available to the Postal Service as of the date of the Commission's announcement;
(2) Must be included in the calculation of the maximum rate adjustment authority change in rates in the first generally applicable rate adjustment filed after the Commission's announcement; and
(3) May be used to generate unused rate authority, if unused, within 12 months of the Commission's announcement.

# Subpart H—Accumulation of Unused and Disbursement of Banked Rate Adjustment Authority
§ 3030.240
General.
Unless a specific exception applies, unused rate adjustment authority, on a class-by-class basis, shall be calculated for each rate adjustment filing. Unused rate adjustment authority shall be added to the schedule of banked rate authority in each instance, and be available for application to rate adjustments pursuant to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 3030.241
Schedule of banked rate adjustment authority.
Upon the establishment of unused rate adjustment authority, the Postal Service shall devise and maintain a schedule that tracks the establishment and subsequent use of banked rate authority on a class-by-class basis. At a minimum, the schedule must track the amount of banked rate authority available immediately prior to the rate adjustment filing and the amount of banked rate authority available upon acceptance of the rates included in the rate adjustment filing. It shall also track all changes to the schedule, including the docket numbers of Commission decisions affecting the schedule, the dates and amounts that any rate authority was generated or subsequently expended, and the expiration dates of all rate adjustment authority. The schedule shall be included with any rate adjustment filing purporting to modify the amount of banked rate adjustment authority.
§ 3030.242
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that involve a rate increase which are filed 12 months apart or less.
(a) When rate adjustment filings that involve a rate increase are filed 12 months apart or less, unused rate adjustment authority for a class is equal to the difference between the maximum rate adjustment authority as summarized by § 3030.127 and calculated pursuant to subparts C through G of this part and this subpart, as appropriate, and the percentage change in rates for the class calculated pursuant to § 3030.128, subject to the limitations described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) For rate adjustment filings that involve a rate increase, unused rate adjustment authority cannot exceed the unused portion of rate authority calculated pursuant to subparts C and D of this part and § 3030.222.
§ 3030.243
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that involve a rate increase which are filed more than 12 months apart.
(a) When rate adjustment filings that involve a rate increase are filed more than 12 months apart, any interim rate adjustment authority must first be added to the schedule of banked rate authority before the unused rate adjustment authority is calculated.
(b) Interim rate adjustment authority for a class is equal to the Base Average applicable to the second rate adjustment filing (as developed pursuant to § 3030.142) divided by the Recent Average utilized in the first rate adjustment filing (as developed pursuant to § 3030.142) and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage and immediately added to the schedule of banked rate authority as of the date the rate adjustment filing is filed. If the Commission announces that rate authority calculated pursuant to subpart D of this part or § 3030.222 are available and no rate adjustment is filed before the Commission subsequently announces that further rate authority calculated pursuant to subpart D of this part or § 3030.222 are available, then the amount of rate authority calculated
pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 3030.222 in the first Commission announcement shall be added to the interim rate adjustment authority.
(c) Unused rate adjustment authority for a class is equal to the difference between the maximum rate adjustment authority as summarized by § 3030.127 and calculated pursuant to subparts C through G of this part and this subpart, as appropriate, and the percentage change in rates for the class calculated pursuant to § 3030.128, subject to the limitations described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) For rate adjustment filings that involve a rate increase, unused rate adjustment authority cannot exceed the unused portion of rate authority calculated pursuant to subparts C and D of this part and § 3030.222.
§ 3030.244
Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for rate adjustments that only include rate decreases.
(a) For rate adjustment filings that only include rate decreases, unused rate adjustment authority for a class is calculated in two steps. First, the difference between the maximum rate adjustment authority as summarized by § 3030.127 and calculated pursuant to subparts C through G of this part and this subpart, as appropriate, for the most recent rate adjustment that involves a rate increase and the percentage change in rates for the class calculated pursuant to § 3030.128(d) is calculated. Second, the unused rate adjustment authority generated in the most recent rate adjustment that involves a rate increase is subtracted from that result.
(b) Unused rate adjustment authority generated under paragraph (a) of this section for a class shall be added to the unused rate adjustment authority generated in the most recent rate adjustment that involves a rate increase on the schedule maintained under § 3030.241. For purposes of this section, the unused rate adjustment authority generated under paragraph (a) of this section for a class shall be deemed to have been added to the schedule maintained under § 3030.241 on the same date as the most recent rate adjustment filing that involves a rate increase.
(c) For rate adjustment filings that only include rate decreases, the sum of unused rate adjustment authority generated under paragraph (a) of this section and the unused rate adjustment authority generated in the most recent rate adjustment that involves a rate increase cannot exceed the unused portion of rate adjustment authority calculated pursuant to subparts C and D of this part and § 3030.222 in the most recent rate adjustment that involves a rate increase.
(d) Unused rate adjustment authority generated under paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to the limitation under § 3030.245, regardless of whether it is used alone or in combination with other existing unused rate adjustment authority.
(e) For rate adjustment filings that only include rate decreases, unused rate adjustment authority generated under this section lapses 5 years from the date of filing of the most recent rate adjustment filing that involves a rate increase.
(f) A rate adjustment filing that only includes rate decreases that is filed immediately after a rate adjustment due to extraordinary or exceptional circumstances (
i.e.,
without an intervening rate adjustment involving a rate increase) may not generate unused rate adjustment authority.
§ 3030.245
Application of banked rate authority.
(a) Banked rate authority may be applied to any planned rate adjustment subject to the limitations appearing in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b) Banked rate authority may only be applied to a proposal to adjust rates after applying rate authority as described in subparts C through F of this part and in § 3030.222.
(c) A maximum of 2 percentage points of banked rate authority may be applied to a rate adjustment for any class in any 12-month period. If banked rate authority is used, it shall be subtracted from the schedule of banked rate adjustment authority as of the date of the final order accepting the rates.
(d) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, interim rate adjustment authority may be used to make a rate adjustment pursuant to the rate adjustment filing that led to its calculation. If interim rate adjustment authority is used to make such a rate adjustment, the interim rate adjustment authority generated pursuant to the rate adjustment filing shall first be added to the schedule of banked rate adjustment authority pursuant to § 3030.241 as the most recent entry. Then, any interim rate adjustment authority used in accordance with this paragraph (d) shall be subtracted from the existing banked rate adjustment authority using a first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, beginning 5 years before the instant rate adjustment filing.
(e) Banked rate authority for a class must be applied, using a first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, beginning 5 years before the instant rate adjustment filing.
(f) Banked rate adjustment authority calculated under this section shall lapse 5 years from the date of the rate adjustment filing leading to its calculation.

# Subpart I—Rate Adjustments Due to Extraordinary and Exceptional Circumstances
§ 3030.260
General.
The Postal Service may request to adjust rates for market dominant products due to extraordinary or exceptional circumstances pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3622(d)(1)(E). The rate adjustments are not subject to rate adjustment limitations or the restrictions on the use of unused rate adjustment authority. The rate adjustment request may not include material classification changes. The request is subject to public participation and Commission review within 90 days.
§ 3030.261
Contents of a rate adjustment filing.
(a) Each exigent request shall include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.
(b) A schedule of the planned rates.
(c) Calculations quantifying the increase for each affected product and class.
(d) A full discussion of the extraordinary or exceptional circumstances giving rise to the request, and a complete explanation of how both the requested overall increase and the specific rate adjustments requested relate to those circumstances.
(e) A full discussion of why the requested rate adjustments are necessary to enable the Postal Service, under best practices of honest, efficient, and economical management, to maintain and continue the development of postal services of the kind and quality adapted to the needs of the United States.
(f) A full discussion of why the requested rate adjustments are reasonable and equitable as among types of users of market dominant products.
(g) An explanation of when, or under what circumstances, the Postal Service expects to be able to rescind the exigent rate adjustments in whole or in part.
(h) An analysis of the circumstances giving rise to the exigent request, which should, if applicable, include a discussion of whether the circumstances were foreseeable or could have been avoided by reasonable prior action.
(i) Such other information as the Postal Service believes will assist the Commission in issuing a timely determination of whether the requested rate adjustments are consistent with applicable statutory policies.
§ 3030.262
Supplemental information.
The Commission may require the Postal Service to provide clarification of its request or to provide additional information in order to gain a better understanding of the circumstances leading to the request or the justification for the specific rate adjustments requested. The Postal Service shall include within its request the identification of one or more knowledgeable Postal Service official(s) who will be available to provide prompt responses to Commission requests for clarification or additional information.
§ 3030.263
Docket and notice.
(a) The Commission will establish a docket for each request to adjust rates due to extraordinary or exceptional
circumstances, publish notice of the request in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(b) The general nature of the proceeding.
(c) A reference to legal authority under which the proceeding is to be conducted.
(d) A concise description of the proposals for changes in rates, fees, and the Mail Classification Schedule.
(e) The identification of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket.
(f) A specified period for public comment.
(g) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
§ 3030.264
Public hearing.
(a) The Commission will hold a public hearing on the Postal Service's request. During the public hearing, responsible Postal Service officials will appear and respond under oath to questions from the Commissioners or their designees addressing previously identified aspects of the Postal Service's request and supporting information.
(b) Interested persons will be given an opportunity to submit to the Commission suggested relevant questions that might be posed during the public hearing. Such questions, and any explanatory materials submitted to clarify the purpose of the questions, should be filed in accordance with § 3010.120 of this chapter, and will become part of the administrative record of the proceeding.
(c) The timing and length of the public hearing will depend on the nature of the circumstances giving rise to the request and the clarity and completeness of the supporting materials provided with the request.
(d) If the Postal Service is unable to provide adequate explanations during the public hearing, supplementary written or oral responses may be required.
§ 3030.265
Opportunity for comments.
(a) Following the conclusion of the public hearings and submission of any supplementary materials, interested persons will be given the opportunity to submit written comments on:
(1) The sufficiency of the justification for an exigent rate adjustment;
(2) The adequacy of the justification for adjustments in the amounts requested by the Postal Service; and
(3) Whether the specific rate adjustments requested are reasonable and equitable.
(b) An opportunity to submit written reply comments will be given to the Postal Service and other interested persons.
§ 3030.266
Deadline for Commission decision.
Requests under this subpart seek rate relief required by extraordinary or exceptional circumstances and will be treated with expedition at every stage. It is Commission policy to provide appropriate relief as quickly as possible consistent with statutory requirements and procedural fairness. The Commission will act expeditiously on the Postal Service's request, taking into account all written comments. In every instance, a Commission decision will be issued within 90 days of the filing of an exigent request.
§ 3030.267
Treatment of banked rate adjustment authority.
(a) Each request will identify the banked rate adjustment authority available as of the date of the request for each class of mail and the available amount for each of the preceding 5 years.
(b) Rate adjustments may use existing banked rate adjustment authority in amounts greater than the limitations described in § 3030.245.
(c) Increases will exhaust all banked rate adjustment authority for each class of mail before imposing additional rate adjustments in excess of the maximum rate adjustment for any class of mail.

# Subpart J—Workshare Discounts
§ 3030.280
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable whenever the Postal Service proposes to adjust a rate associated with a workshare discount. For the purpose of this subpart, the cost avoided by the Postal Service
for not providing the applicable service refers to the amount identified in the most recently applicable Annual Compliance Determination, unless the Commission otherwise provides.
§ 3030.281
Calculation of passthroughs for workshare discounts.
For the purpose of this subpart, the percentage passthrough for any workshare discount shall be calculated by dividing the workshare discount by the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service and expressing the result as a percentage.
§ 3030.282
Increased pricing efficiency.
(a) For a workshare discount that is equal to the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, no proposal to adjust a rate associated with that workshare discount may change the size of the discount.
(b) For a workshare discount that exceeds the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, no proposal to adjust a rate associated with that workshare discount may increase the size of the discount.
(c) For a workshare discount that is less than the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, no proposal to adjust a rate associated with that workshare discount may decrease the size of the discount.
§ 3030.283
Limitations on excessive discounts.
(a) No proposal to adjust a rate may set a workshare discount that would exceed the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, unless at least one of the following reasons provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section applies.
(b) The proposed workshare discount is associated with a new postal service, a change to an existing postal service, or a new workshare initiative.
(c) The proposed workshare discount is a minimum of 20 percent less than the existing workshare discount.
(d) The proposed workshare discount is set in accordance with a Commission order issued pursuant to § 3030.286.
(e) The proposed workshare discount is provided in connection with a subclass of mail, consisting exclusively of mail matter of educational, cultural, scientific, or informational value (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(C)) and is in compliance with § 3030.285(c).
§ 3030.284
Limitations on discounts below avoided cost.
(a) No proposal to adjust a rate may set a workshare discount that would be below the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, unless at least one of the following reasons provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section applies.
(b) The proposed workshare discount is associated with a new postal service, a change to an existing postal service, or a new workshare initiative.
(c) The proposed workshare discount is a minimum of 20 percent more than the existing workshare discount.
(d) The proposed workshare discount is set in accordance with a Commission order issued pursuant to § 3030.286.
(e) The percentage passthrough for the proposed workshare discount is at least 85 percent.
§ 3030.285
Proposal to adjust a rate associated with a workshare discount.
(a) Each proposal to adjust a rate associated with a workshare discount shall be supported by substantial evidence and demonstrate that each proposed workshare discount has been set in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3622(e) and this subpart. Substantial evidence means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
(b) For each proposed workshare discount that would exceed the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, the rate adjustment filing shall indicate the applicable paragraph of § 3030.283 under which the Postal Service is justifying the excessive discount and include any relevant analysis supporting the claim.
(c) For each proposed workshare discount that is provided in connection
with a subclass of mail, consisting exclusively of mail matter of educational, cultural, scientific, or informational value (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(C)), would exceed the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, and would not be set in accordance with at least one specific provision appearing in § 3030.283(b) through (d), the rate adjustment filing shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) The number of mail owners receiving the workshare discount during the most recent full fiscal year and for the current fiscal year to date;
(2) The number of mail owners for the applicable product or products in the most recent full fiscal year and for the current fiscal year to date; and
(3) An explanation of how the proposed workshare discount would promote the public interest, even though the proposed workshare discount would substantially exceed the cost avoided by the Postal Service.
(d) For each proposed workshare discount that would be below the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, the rate adjustment filing shall indicate the applicable paragraph of § 3030.284 under which the Postal Service is justifying the discount that is below the cost avoided and include any relevant analysis supporting the claim.
§ 3030.286
Application for waiver.
(a) In every instance in which the Postal Service determines to adjust a rate associated with a workshare discount in a manner that does not comply with the limitations imposed by §§ 3030.283 through 3030.284, the Postal Service shall file an application for waiver. The Postal Service must file any application for waiver at least 60 days prior to filing the proposal to adjust a rate associated with the applicable workshare discount. In its application for waiver, the Postal Service shall indicate the approximate filing date for its next rate adjustment filing.
(b) The application for waiver shall be supported by a preponderance of the evidence and demonstrate that a waiver from the limitations imposed by §§ 3030.283 through 3030.284 should be granted. Preponderance of the evidence means proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
(c) The application for waiver shall include a specific and detailed statement signed by one or more knowledgeable Postal Service official(s) who sponsors the application and attests to the accuracy of the information contained within the statement. The statement shall set forth the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable to the specific workshare discount for which a waiver is sought:
(1) The reason(s) why a waiver is alleged to be necessary (with justification thereof), including all relevant supporting analysis and all assumptions relied upon.
(2) The length of time for which a waiver is alleged to be necessary (with justification thereof).
(3) For each subsequent rate adjustment filing planned to occur during the length of time for which a waiver is sought, a representation of the proposed minimum amount of the change to the workshare discount.
(4) For a claim that the amount of the workshare discount exceeding the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service is necessary in order to mitigate rate shock (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(B)), the Postal Service shall provide an explanation addressing all of the items specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A description of the customers that the Postal Service claims would be adversely affected.
(ii) Prices and volumes for the workshare discount at issue (the benchmark and workshared mail category) for the last 10 years.
(iii) Quantitative analysis or, if not available, qualitative analysis indicating the nature and extent of the likely harm to the customers that would result from setting the workshare discount in compliance with § 3030.283(c).
(5) For a claim that setting an excessive or low workshare discount closer or equal to the cost avoided by the
Postal Service for not providing the applicable service would impede the efficient operation of the Postal Service, the Postal Service shall provide an explanation addressing all of the items specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A description of the operational strategy at issue.
(ii) Quantitative analysis or, if not available, qualitative analysis indicating how the workshare discount at issue is related to that operational strategy.
(iii) How setting the workshare discount in compliance with § 3030.283(c) or § 3030.284(c), whichever is applicable, would impede that operational strategy.
(6) For a claim that reducing or eliminating the excessive workshare discount would lead to a loss of volume in the affected category of mail and reduce the aggregate contribution to the Postal Service's institutional costs from the mail that is subject to the discount (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(3)(A)), the Postal Service shall provide an explanation addressing all of the items specified in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A description of the affected category of mail.
(ii) Quantitative analysis or, if not available, qualitative analysis indicating the expected loss of volume and reduced contribution that is claimed would result from reducing or eliminating the excessive workshare discount.
(iii) How setting the excessive workshare discount in compliance with § 3030.283(c) would lead to the expected loss of volume and reduced contribution.
(7) For a claim that reducing or eliminating the excessive workshare discount would result in a further increase in the rates paid by mailers not able to take advantage of the workshare discount (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(3)(B)), or a claim that increasing or eliminating a low workshare discount for a non-compensatory product would result in a further increase in the rates paid by mailers not able to take advantage of the workshare discount, the Postal Service shall provide an explanation addressing all of the items specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) A description of the mailers not able to take advantage of the discount.
(ii) Quantitative analysis or, if not available, qualitative analysis indicating the expected size of the rate increase that is claimed would result in the rates paid by mailers not able to take advantage of the discount.
(iii) How setting the excessive workshare discount in compliance with § 3030.283(c) or the low workshare discount for a non-compensatory product in compliance with § 3030.284(c) or (e), whichever is applicable, would result in a further increase in the rates paid by mailers not able to take advantage of the discount.
(8) Any other relevant factors or reasons to support the application for waiver.
(d) Unless the Commission otherwise provides, commenters will be given at least 7 calendar days to respond to the application for waiver after it has been filed by the Postal Service.
(e) To better evaluate the waiver application, the Commission may, on its own behalf or by request of any interested person, order the Postal Service to provide experts on the subject matter of the waiver application to participate in technical conferences, prepare statements clarifying or supplementing their views, or answer questions posed by the Commission or its representatives.
(f) For a proposed workshare discount that would exceed the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, the application for waiver shall be granted only if at least one provision appearing in 39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(A) through (e)(2)(D) or 39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(3)(A) through (e)(3)(B) is determined to apply.
(g) For a proposed workshare discount that would be set below the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, the application for waiver shall be granted only if setting the workshare discount closer or equal to the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service would impede the efficient operation of the Postal Service or if increasing or eliminating
a low workshare discount for a non-compensatory product would result in a further increase in the rates paid by mailers not able to take advantage of the workshare discount.
(h) The Commission will issue an order announcing, at a minimum, whether the requested waiver will be granted or denied no later than 21 days following the close of any comment period(s). An order granting the application for waiver shall specify all conditions upon which the waiver is granted, including the date upon which the waiver shall expire.
Pt. 3035

# PART 3035—REGULATION OF RATES FOR COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS
Sec.
3035.101
Scope.
3035.102
Changes in rates of general applicability.
3035.103
Decrease in rates of general applicability.
3035.104
Change in class of general applicability.
3035.105
Rate or class not of general applicability.
3035.106
Sufficiency of information.
3035.107
Standards for compliance.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3633.

# Source:
72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.
§ 3035.101
Scope.
Rules in this part are applicable to competitive products.
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.102
Changes in rates of general applicability.
(a) When the Postal Service determines to change a rate or rates of general applicability, it shall file notice of the change with the Commission no later than the date of publication of the decision in the
Federal Register
concerning such change, but at least 30 days before the effective date of the change.
(b) The notice filed with the Commission shall include an explanation and justification for the change, the effective date, and a schedule of the changed rates.
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.103
Decrease in rates of general applicability.
(a) When the Postal Service determines to change a rate or rates of general applicability for any competitive product that results in a decrease in the average rate of that product, it shall file notice of the change with the Commission no later than the date of publication of the decision in the
Federal Register
concerning such change, but at least 30 days before the effective date of the change.
(b) The notice filed with the Commission shall include an explanation and justification for the change, the effective date, and a schedule of the changed rates.
(c) In addition to the notice, the Postal Service shall file with the Commission:
(1) Sufficient revenue and cost data for the 12-month period following the effective date of the rate to demonstrate that each affected competitive product will be in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633(a)(2); and
(2) A certified statement by a representative of the Postal Service attesting to the accuracy of the data submitted, and explaining why, following the change, competitive products in total will be in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633(a)(1) and (3).
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.104
Change in class of general applicability.
(a) In the case of a change in class of general applicability, the Postal Service shall file notice of the change with the Commission no later than the date of publication of the decision in the
Federal Register,
but at least 30 days before the effective date of the increase.
(b) The notice filed with the Commission shall include an explanation and
justification for the change, the effective date, and the record of proceedings regarding such decision.
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.105
Rate or class not of general applicability.
(a) When the Postal Service determines to add or change a rate or class not of general applicability, it shall file notice of its decision with the Commission at least 15 days before the effective date of the change.
(b) The notice filed with the Commission shall include an explanation and justification for the change, the effective date, the rate and class decision, and the record of proceedings regarding such decision.
(c) In addition to the notice, the Postal Service shall file with the Commission:
(1) Sufficient revenue and cost data for the 12-month period following the effective date of the rate or class to demonstrate that each affected competitive product will be in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633(a)(2); and
(2) A certified statement by a representative of the Postal Service attesting to the accuracy of the data submitted, and explaining why, following the change, competitive products in total will be in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633(a)(1) and (3).
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.106
Sufficiency of information.
If, after review of the information submitted pursuant to this part, the Commission determines additional information is necessary to enable it to evaluate whether competitive products will be in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633(a), it may, in its discretion, require the Postal Service to provide additional information as deemed necessary.
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3035.107
Standards for compliance.
For purposes of determining competitive products' compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3633, the Commission will apply the following standards:
(a) Incremental costs will be used to test for cross-subsidies by market dominant products of competitive products. To the extent that incremental cost data are unavailable, the Commission will use the sum of competitive products' volume-variable costs and product-specific costs supplemented to include causally related, group-specific costs to test for cross-subsidies.
(b) Each competitive product must recover its attributable costs as defined in 39 U.S.C. 3631(b). Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3631(b), the Commission will calculate a competitive product's attributable costs as the sum of its volume-variable costs, product-specific costs, and those inframarginal costs calculated as part of a competitive product's incremental costs.
(c)(1) Annually, on a fiscal year basis, the appropriate share of institutional costs to be recovered from competitive products collectively, at a minimum, will be calculated using the following formula:
AS
t
+1
=
AS
t
* (1 + %Δ
CCM
t
−1
+
CGD
t
−1
)
Where,
AS = Appropriate Share, expressed as a percentage and rounded to one decimal place
CCM = Competitive Contribution Margin
CGD = Competitive Growth Differential
t = Fiscal Year
If t = 0 = FY 2007, AS = 5.5 percent
(2) The Commission shall, as part of each Annual Compliance Determination, calculate and report competitive products' appropriate share for the upcoming fiscal year using the formula set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[72 FR 63697, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 88123, Dec. 7, 2016; 84 FR 539, Jan. 31, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020; 88 FR 3315, Jan. 19, 2023]
Pt. 3040

# PART 3040—PRODUCT LISTS AND THE MAIL CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

# Subpart A—Product Lists and the Mail Classification Schedule
Sec.
3040.101
Applicability.
3040.102
Product lists.
3040.103
Notice of product list change.
3040.104
Mail Classification Schedule.
3040.105
Modifications to the Mail Classification Schedule.
Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 3040—Market Dominant Product List
Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 3040—Competitive Product List

# Subpart B—Requests Initiated by the Postal Service To Modify the Product Lists
3040.130
General.
3040.131
Contents of a request.
3040.132
Supporting justification.
3040.133
Docket and notice.
3040.134
Review.
3040.135
Further proceedings.

# Subpart C—Requests Initiated by Users of the Mail to Modify the Product Lists
3040.150
General.
3040.151
Contents of a request.
3040.152
Supporting justification.
3040.153
Docket and notice.
3040.154
Postal Service notice and reply.
3040.155
Review.
3040.156
Further proceedings.

# Subpart D—Proposal of the Commission to Modify the Product Lists
3040.170
General.
3040.171
Contents of a proposal.
3040.172
Supporting justification.
3040.173
Docket and notice.
3040.174
Postal Service notice and reply.
3040.175
Review.
3040.176
Further proceedings.

# Subpart E—Requests Initiated by the Postal Service To Make Material Changes or Minor Corrections to the Mail Classification Schedule
3040.180
Material changes to product descriptions.
3040.181
Supporting justification for material changes to product descriptions.
3040.182
Docket and notice of material changes to product descriptions.
3040.183
Commission review of material changes to product descriptions.
3040.184-3040.189
[Reserved]
3040.190
Minor corrections to product descriptions.
3040.191
Docket and notice of minor corrections to product descriptions.
3040.192
Commission review of minor corrections to product descriptions.

# Subpart F—Size and Weight Limitations for Mail Matter
3040.210
General.
3040.211
Limitations applicable to market dominant mail matter.
3040.212
Limitations applicable to competitive mail matter.

# Subpart G—Requests for Market Dominant Negotiated Service Agreements
3040.220
General.
3040.221
Additional supporting justification for negotiated service agreements.
3040.222
Data collection plan and report for negotiated service agreements.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3622; 3631; 3642; 3682.

# Source:
72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.

# Subpart A—Product Lists and the Mail Classification Schedule

# Source:
81 FR 38954, June 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3040.101
Applicability.
(a) The rules in this part require the Postal Regulatory Commission to establish and maintain lists of Postal Service products and a Mail Classification Schedule.
(b) The product lists shall categorize postal products as either market dominant or competitive. As established, the market dominant and competitive product lists shall be consistent with the market dominant products identified in 39 U.S.C. 3621(a) and the competitive products identified in 39 U.S.C. 3631(a). The market dominant and competitive product lists shall also include products identified as market tests pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3641 and nonpostal pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 404(e).
(c) The Mail Classification Schedule shall provide current price and classification information applicable to the products appearing on the market dominant and competitive product lists.
(d) Once established, the product lists and the Mail Classification Schedule may be modified subject to the procedures specified in this part.
(e) Modification of the competitive product list to add a competitive negotiated service agreement is not governed by this part but is governed by part 3041 of this chapter. The rules in part 3041 of this chapter regarding removal of a negotiated service agreement from the competitive product list
supersede any conflicting rules in this part.
[81 FR 38954, June 15, 2016. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 67294, Aug. 20, 2024]
§ 3040.102
Product lists.
(a)
Market dominant product list.
The market dominant product list shall be published in the
Federal Register
at appendix A to subpart A of part 3040—Market Dominant Product List.
(b)
Competitive product list.
The competitive product list shall be published in the
Federal Register
at appendix B to subpart A of part 3040—Competitive Product List.
[85 FR 9658, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.103
Notice of product list change.
(a) Whenever the Postal Regulatory Commission issues a final order that modifies the list of products in the market dominant category or the competitive category, it shall cause notice of such change to be published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Notice shall be submitted to the
Federal Register
for publication within 6 months of the issue date of the applicable final order that affects the change.
(c) Modifications pending publication in the
Federal Register
are effective immediately upon written direction from the Postal Regulatory Commission.
(d) The
Federal Register
document shall:
(1) Identify modifications to the current list of market dominant products and the current list of competitive products; and
(2) Indicate how and when the previous product lists have been modified.
[81 FR 38954, June 15, 2016. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.104
Mail Classification Schedule.
(a) The Postal Regulatory Commission shall publish a Mail Classification Schedule (including both current and previous versions) on its website at
http://www.prc.gov.
Copies of the Mail Classification Schedule also shall be available during regular business hours for reference and public inspection at the Postal Regulatory Commission located at 901 New York Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20268-0001.
(b) The Mail Classification Schedule shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(1) Front matter, including:
(i) A cover page identifying the title of the document as the Mail Classification Schedule, the source of the document as the Postal Regulatory Commission (including Commission seal), and the publication date;
(ii) A table of contents;
(iii) A table specifying the revision history of the Mail Classification Schedule; and
(iv) A table identifying Postal Service trademarks; and
(2) Information concerning market dominant products, including:
(i) A copy of the Market Dominant Product List;
(ii) Descriptions of each market dominant product organized by the class of product, including:
(A) Where applicable, the general characteristics, size and weight limitations, minimum volume requirements, price categories, and available optional features of each market dominant product;
(B) A schedule listing the rates and fees for each market dominant product;
(C) Where applicable, the identification of a product as a special classification within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10) for market dominant products;
(D) Where applicable, the identification of a product as an experimental product undergoing a market test; and
(E) Where applicable, the identification of a product as a nonpostal product; and
(3) Information concerning competitive products, including:
(i) A copy of the competitive product list; and
(ii) Descriptions of each competitive product, including:
(A) Where applicable, the general characteristics, size and weight limitations, minimum volume requirements, price categories, and available optional features of each competitive product;
(B) A schedule listing the current rates and fees for each competitive product of general applicability;
(C) The identification of each product not of general applicability within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3632(b)(3) for competitive products;
(D) Where applicable, the identification of a product as an experimental product undergoing a market test; and
(E) Where applicable, the identification of a product as a nonpostal product; and
(4) A glossary of terms and conditions; and
(5) A list of country codes for international mail prices.
[81 FR 38954, June 15, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.105
Modifications to the Mail Classification Schedule.
(a) Whenever the Postal Regulatory Commission issues a final order that modifies the Mail Classification Schedule, it shall update the Mail Classification Schedule appearing on its website at
http://www.prc.gov
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Modification to the Mail Classification Schedule shall be incorporated within 3 months of the issue date of the final order.
(c) Modifications pending incorporation into the Mail Classification Schedule are effective immediately upon written direction from the Postal Regulatory Commission.
[81 FR 38954, June 15, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
Pt. 3040, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 3040—Market Dominant Product List
(An asterisk (*) indicates an organizational class or group, not a Postal Service product.)
FIRST-CLASS MAIL *
Single-Piece Letters/Postcards
Presorted Letters/Postcards
Flats
Outbound Single-Piece First-Class Mail International
Inbound Letter Post
USPS MARKETING MAIL (COMMERCIAL AND NONPROFIT) *
High Density and Saturation Letters
High Density and Saturation Flats/Parcels
Carrier Route
Letters
Flats
Parcels
Every Door Direct Mail—Retail
PERIODICALS *
In-County Periodicals
Outside County Periodicals
PACKAGE SERVICES *
Alaska Bypass Service
Bound Printed Matter Flats
Bound Printed Matter Parcels
Media Mail/Library Mail
SPECIAL SERVICES *
Ancillary Services
International Ancillary Services
Address Management Services
Caller Service
Credit Card Authentication
International Reply Coupon Service
International Business Reply Mail Service
Money Orders
Post Office Box Service
Stamp Fulfillment Services
NEGOTIATED SERVICE AGREEMENTS *
Domestic *
Publisher's Clearing House Negotiated Service Agreement for USPS Marketing Mail
International *
Inbound Market Dominant Multi-Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators
NONPOSTAL SERVICES *
Alliances with the Private Sector to Defray Cost of Key Postal Functions
Philatelic Sales
MARKET TESTS *
USPS Connect Local Mail
[89 FR 11734, Feb. 15, 2024]
Pt. 3040, Subpt. A, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 3040—Competitive Product List
(An asterisk (*) indicates an organizational class or group, not a Postal Service product.)
DOMESTIC PRODUCTS *
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail
Parcel Select
USPS Ground Advantage
INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS *
Outbound International Expedited Services
Inbound Parcel Post (at UPU rates)
Outbound Priority Mail International
International Priority Airmail (IPA)
International Surface Air Lift (ISAL)
International Direct Sacks-M-Bags
Outbound Single-Piece First-Class Package International Service
Inbound Letter Post Small Packets and Bulky Letters
NEGOTIATED SERVICE AGREEMENTS *
Domestic *
Priority Mail Express Contract 83
Priority Mail Express Contract 87
Priority Mail Express Contract 88
Priority Mail Express Contract 92
Priority Mail Express Contract 95
Priority Mail Express Contract 97
Priority Mail Express Contract 99
Parcel Return Service Contract 19
Parcel Return Service Contract 20
Priority Mail Contract 80
Priority Mail Contract 153
Priority Mail Contract 360
Priority Mail Contract 609
Priority Mail Contract 642
Priority Mail Contract 685
Priority Mail Contract 686
Priority Mail Contract 687
Priority Mail Contract 690
Priority Mail Contract 693
Priority Mail Contract 694
Priority Mail Contract 695
Priority Mail Contract 700
Priority Mail Contract 701
Priority Mail Contract 704
Priority Mail Contract 705
Priority Mail Contract 707
Priority Mail Contract 709
Priority Mail Contract 712
Priority Mail Contract 714
Priority Mail Contract 715
Priority Mail Contract 720
Priority Mail Contract 722
Priority Mail Contract 733
Priority Mail Contract 736
Priority Mail Contract 737
Priority Mail Contract 739
Priority Mail Contract 740
Priority Mail Contract 742
Priority Mail Contract 747
Priority Mail Contract 749
Priority Mail Contract 750
Priority Mail Contract 751
Priority Mail Contract 753
Priority Mail Contract 754
Priority Mail Contract 755
Priority Mail Contract 756
Priority Mail Contract 757
Priority Mail Contract 760
Priority Mail Contract 761
Priority Mail Contract 762
Priority Mail Contract 764
Priority Mail Contract 765
Priority Mail Contract 767
Priority Mail Contract 769
Priority Mail Contract 771
Priority Mail Contract 772
Priority Mail Contract 773
Priority Mail Contract 774
Priority Mail Contract 777
Priority Mail Contract 779
Priority Mail Contract 780
Priority Mail Contract 781
Priority Mail Contract 782
Priority Mail Contract 783
Priority Mail Contract 785
Priority Mail Contract 786
Priority Mail Contract 787
Priority Mail Contract 788
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 99
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 122
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 123
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 130
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 131
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 133
Priority Mail Express
Priority Mail Contract 135
Parcel Select
Parcel Return Service Contract 10
Parcel Select Contract 34
Parcel Select Contract 44
Parcel Select Contract 48
Parcel Select Contract 56
Parcel Select Contract 57
Parcel Select Contract 58
Priority Mail—Non-Published Rates 1
Priority Mail—Non-Published Rates 2
First-Class Package Service Contract 87
First-Class Package Service Contract 112
First-Class Package Service Contract 116
First-Class Package Service Contract 117
First-Class Package Service Contract 118
First-Class Package Service Contract 121
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 66
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 74
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 75
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 77
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 78
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 80
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 26
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 79
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 121
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 137
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 144
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 153
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 154
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 155
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 166
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 169
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 175
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 183
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 186
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 193
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 195
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 198
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 200
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 203
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 204
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 205
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 206
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 208
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 213
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 215
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 216
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 217
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 218
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 220
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 221
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 224
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 228
Priority Mail
First-Class Package Service Contract 230
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 4
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 5
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 6
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 7
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 8
Priority Mail
Parcel Select Contract 9
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 6
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 8
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 9
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 12
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 14
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 16
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 17
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 18
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 19
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 20
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 22
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 23
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 24
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 25
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 26
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 27
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 28
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 29
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 30
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 31
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 32
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 33
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 34
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 36
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 37
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 38
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 39
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 40
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 41
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 42
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 43
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 44
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 45
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 47
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 48
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 49
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 50
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 51
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 52
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 53
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 54
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 55
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 56
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 57
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 58
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 59
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 60
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 61
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 62
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 63
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 64
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 66
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 67
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 68
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 69
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 71
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 72
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 73
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 75
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 76
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 77
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 78
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 79
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 80
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 81
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 83
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 84
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 86
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 88
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 89
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 90
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 91
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 92
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 93
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 94
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 95
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 96
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 97
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 98
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 99
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 100
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 101
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 102
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 103
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 104
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 105
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 106
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 107
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 108
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 109
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 110
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 111
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 113
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 114
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 115
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 116
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 117
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 118
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 119
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 120
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 121
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 122
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 3
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 4
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 5
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 6
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 7
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 8
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 9
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 12
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 13
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 15
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 16
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 17
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 18
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 19
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 20
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 22
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 26
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 28
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 29
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 30
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 31
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 32
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 33
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 34
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 35
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 36
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 38
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 39
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 40
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 41
Priority Mail, Parcel Select
Parcel Return Service Contract 1
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 1
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 2
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 3
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 4
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 5
First-Class Package Service
Parcel Select Contract 7
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 1
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 2
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 4
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 5
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 6
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 7
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 8
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 9
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 10
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 11
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 12
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 14
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 15
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 16
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 17
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 18
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 19
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 20
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 21
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 22
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 23
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 24
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 25
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 26
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 27
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 28
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 29
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 30
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 31
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 32
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 33
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 34
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 35
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 36
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 37
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 38
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 39
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 40
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 41
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 42
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 43
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 44
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 45
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 46
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 47
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 48
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 49
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 50
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 51
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 52
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 53
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 54
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 55
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 56
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 57
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 58
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 59
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 60
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 61
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 62
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 63
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 64
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 65
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 66
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 67
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 68
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 69
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 70
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 71
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 72
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 73
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 74
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 75
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 76
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 77
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 78
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 79
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 80
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 81
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 82
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 83
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 84
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 85
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 86
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 87
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 88
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 89
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 90
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 91
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 92
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 93
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 94
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 95
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 96
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 97
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 98
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 99
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 100
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 101
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 102
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 103
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 104
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 105
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 106
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 107
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 108
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 109
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 110
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 111
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 112
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 113
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 114
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 115
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 116
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 117
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 118
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 119
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 120
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 121
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 122
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 123
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 124
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 125
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 126
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 127
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 128
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 129
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 130
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 131
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 132
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 133
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 134
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 135
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 136
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 137
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 138
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 139
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 140
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 141
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 142
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 143
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 144
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 145
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 146
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 147
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 148
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 149
Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 150
Priority Mail, First-Class Package Service, Parcel Select
Parcel Return Service Contract 1
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 1
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 2
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 3
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 4
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 5
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 6
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 7
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 8
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 9
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 10
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 1
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 2
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 3
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 4
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 5
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 6
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 7
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 8
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 9
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 10
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 11
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 12
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 13
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 14
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 15
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 16
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 17
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 18
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 19
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 20
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 21
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 22
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 23
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 24
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 25
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 26
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 27
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 28
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 29
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 30
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 31
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 32
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 33
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 34
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 35
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 36
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail
USPS Ground Advantage Contract 37
Priority Mail, USPS Ground Advantage, Parcel Select
Parcel Return Service Contract 1
Priority Mail, USPS Ground Advantage
Parcel Select Contract 1
Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, USPS Ground Advantage
Parcel Select Contract 1
Outbound International *
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS) Contracts
GEPS 3
GEPS 5
GEPS 6
GEPS 7
GEPS 8
GEPS 9
GEPS 10
Global Bulk Economy (GBE) Contracts
Global Plus Contracts
Global Plus 1C
Global Plus 1D
Global Plus 1E
Global Plus 2C
Global Plus 3
Global Plus 4
Global Plus 5
Global Plus 6
Global Reseller Expedited Package Contracts
Global Reseller Expedited Package Services 1
Global Reseller Expedited Package Services 2
Global Reseller Expedited Package Services 3
Global Reseller Expedited Package Services 4
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 2
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 3
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 4
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 5
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 6
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 7
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 8
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 9
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 10
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 11
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 12
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 13
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 14
Global Expedited Package Services (GEPS)—Non-Published Rates 15
Outbound Competitive International Merchandise Return Service Agreement with Royal Mail Group, Ltd.
Competitive International Merchandise Return Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators
Competitive International Merchandise Return Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators 1
Competitive International Merchandise Return Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators 2
Alternative Delivery Provider (ADP) Contracts
ADP 1
Alternative Delivery Provider Reseller (ADPR) Contracts
ADPR 1
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contracts
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 4
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 6
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 8
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 9
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 10
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 11
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 12
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 13
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 14
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 15
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 16
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 17
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 18
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 19
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 20
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 21
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 22
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 23
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 24
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 25
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 26
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 27
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 28
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 29
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 30
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 31
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International, First-Class Package International Service
Commercial ePacket Contracts
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International, First-Class Package International Service
Commercial ePacket Contract 2
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International, First-Class Package International Service
Commercial ePacket Contract 8
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International, First-Class Package International Service
Commercial ePacket Contract 13
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International, First-Class Package International Service
Commercial ePacket Contract 14
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
Commercial ePacket Contracts
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
Commercial ePacket Contract 2
Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
Commercial ePacket Contract 3
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contracts
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 1
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 2
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 4
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 5
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 6
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 9
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 11
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 12
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 13
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 14
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 15
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contracts
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 2
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 3
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 4
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 5
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 6
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 7
International Priority Airmail, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contract 8
International Priority Airmail Contracts
International Priority Airmail, International Surface Air Lift, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contracts
International Priority Airmail, International Surface Air Lift, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service Contract 1
International Priority Airmail, International Surface Air Lift, Commercial ePacket, Priority Mail Express International, Priority Mail International
First-Class Package International Service with Reseller Contracts
Inbound International *
International Business Reply Service (IBRS) Competitive Contracts
International Business Reply Service Competitive Contract 1
International Business Reply Service Competitive Contract 3
Inbound Direct Entry Contracts with Customers
Inbound Direct Entry Contracts with Foreign Postal Administrations
Inbound Direct Entry Contracts with Foreign Postal Administrations
Inbound Direct Entry Contracts with Foreign Postal Administrations 1
Inbound EMS
Inbound EMS 2
Inbound Air Parcel Post (at non-UPU rates)
Inbound Competitive Multi-Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators
Inbound Competitive Multi-Service Agreements with Foreign Postal Operators 1
SPECIAL SERVICES *
Address Enhancement Services
Greeting Cards, Gift Cards, and Stationery
International Ancillary Services
International Money Transfer Service—Outbound
International Money Transfer Service—Inbound
Premium Forwarding Service
Shipping and Mailing Supplies
Post Office Box Service
Competitive Ancillary Services
NONPOSTAL SERVICES *
Advertising
Licensing of Intellectual Property other than Officially Licensed Retail Products (OLRP)
Mail Service Promotion
Officially Licensed Retail Products (OLRP)
Passport Photo Service
Photocopying Service
Rental, Leasing, Licensing or other Non-Sale Disposition of Tangible Property
Training Facilities and Related Services
USPS Electronic Postmark (EPM) Program
MARKET TESTS *
[89 FR 11734, Feb. 15, 2024]

# Subpart B—Requests Initiated by the Postal Service To Modify the Product Lists
§ 3040.130
General.
The Postal Service, by filing a request with the Commission, may propose a modification to the market dominant product list or the competitive product list. For purposes of this part, modification shall be defined as adding a product to a list, removing a product from a list, or moving a product from one list to the other list.
[81 FR 38957, June 15, 2016. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.131
Contents of a request.
A request to modify the market dominant product list or the competitive product list shall:
(a) Provide the name, and class if applicable, of each product that is the subject of the request;
(b) Provide a copy of the Governor's decision supporting the request, if any;
(c) Indicate whether the request proposes to add a product to the market dominant list or the competitive list, remove a product from the market dominant list or the competitive list, or transfer a product from the market dominant list to the competitive list or from the competitive list to the market dominant list;
(d) Indicate whether each product that is the subject of the request is:
(1) A special classification within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10) for market dominant products;
(2) A product not of general applicability within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3632(b)(3) for competitive products; or
(3) A non-postal product.
(e) Provide all supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(f) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed changes therein in legislative format.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.132
Supporting justification.
Supporting justification shall be in the form of a statement from one or more knowledgeable Postal Service official(s) who sponsors the request and attests to the accuracy of the information contained within the statement. The justification shall:
(a) Explain the reason for initiating the docket and explain why the change is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(b) Explain why, as to market dominant products, the change is not inconsistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code;
(c) Explain why, as to competitive products, the addition, deletion, or transfer will not result in the violation of any of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(d) Verify that the change does not classify as competitive a product over which the Postal Service exercises sufficient market power that it can, without risk of losing a significant level of business to other firms offering similar products:
(1) Set the price of such product substantially above costs;
(2) Raise prices significantly;
(3) Decrease quality; or
(4) Decrease output.
(e) Explain whether or not each product that is the subject of the request is covered by the postal monopoly as reserved to the Postal Service under 18 U.S.C. 1696 subject to the exceptions set forth in 39 U.S.C. 601;
(f) Provide a description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the product;
(g) Provide any information available on the views of those who use the product on the appropriateness of the proposed modification;
(h) Provide a description of the likely impact of the proposed modification on small business concerns; and
(i) Include such information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed modification.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.133
Docket and notice.
The Commission will establish a docket for each request to modify the market dominant list or the competitive product list, promptly publish notice of the request in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall include:
(a) The general nature of the proceeding;
(b) A reference to legal authority to which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(c) A concise description of the proposals for changes in the Mail Classification Schedule;
(d) The identification of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket;
(e) A specified period for public comment; and
(f) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.134
Review.
The Commission shall review the request and responsive comments. The Commission shall either:
(a) Approve the request to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists;
(b) Institute further proceedings to consider all or part of the request if it finds that there is substantial likelihood that the modification is inconsistent with statutory policies or Commission rules, and explain its reasons for not approving the request to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists;
(c) Provide an opportunity for the Postal Service to modify its request; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.135
Further proceedings.
If the Commission determines that further proceedings are necessary, a conference shall be scheduled to consider the concerns expressed by the Commission. Written statements commenting on the Commission's concerns shall be requested, to be filed 7 days prior to the conference. Upon conclusion of the conference, the Commission shall promptly issue a ruling to:
(a) Provide for a period of discovery to obtain further information;
(b) Schedule a hearing on the record for further consideration of the request;
(c) Explain the reasons for not going forward with additional proceedings and approve the request to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart C—Requests Initiated by Users of the Mail to Modify the Product Lists
§ 3040.150
General.
Users of the mail, by filing a request with the Commission, may propose a modification to the market dominant product list or the competitive product list. For purposes of this part, modification shall be defined as adding a product to a list, removing a product from a list, or transferring a product from one list to the other list.
[81 FR 38957, June 15, 2016. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.151
Contents of a request.
A request to modify the market dominant product list or the competitive product list shall:
(a) Provide the name, and class if applicable, of each product that is the subject of the request;
(b) Indicate whether the request proposes to add a product to the market dominant list or the competitive list, remove a product from the market dominant list or the competitive list, or move a product from the market dominant list to the competitive list or from the competitive list to the market dominant list;
(c) Indicate whether each product that is the subject of the request is:
(1) A special classification within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10) for market dominant products;
(2) A product not of general applicability within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3632(b) for competitive products; or
(3) A non-postal product.
(d) Provide all supporting justification upon which the proponent of the request proposes to rely; and
(e) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed changes therein in legislative format.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.152
Supporting justification.
Supporting justification shall be in the form of a statement from a knowledgeable proponent of the request who
attests to the accuracy of the information contained within the statement. The justification shall:
(a) Explain the reason for initiating the docket and explain why the change is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(b) Explain why, as to market dominant products, the change is not inconsistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code;
(c) Explain why, as to competitive products, the addition, deletion, or transfer will not result in the violation of any of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
(d) Verify that the change does not classify as competitive a product over which the Postal Service exercises sufficient market power that it can, without risk of losing a significant level of business to other firms offering similar products:
(1) Set the price of such product substantially above costs;
(2) Raise prices significantly;
(3) Decrease quality; or
(4) Decrease output.
(e) Explain whether or not each product that is the subject of the request is covered by the postal monopoly, as reserved to the Postal Service under 18 U.S.C. 1696 subject to the exceptions set forth in 39 U.S.C. 601;
(f) Provide a description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the product;
(g) Provide any information available on the views of those who use the product on the appropriateness of the proposed modification;
(h) Provide a description of the likely impact of the proposed modification on small business concerns; and
(i) Include such information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed modification.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.153
Docket and notice.
The Commission will establish a docket for each request to modify the market dominant list or the competitive product list, promptly publish notice of the request in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall include:
(a) The general nature of the proceeding;
(b) A reference to legal authority to which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(c) A concise description of the proposals for changes in the Mail Classification Schedule;
(d) The identification of an Office of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket;
(e) A specified period for public comment; and
(f) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.154
Postal Service notice and reply.
The Secretary of the Commission shall forward to the Postal Service a copy of the request. Within 28 days of the filing of the request, the Postal Service shall provide its preliminary views in regard to the request. The Postal Service may include suggestions for appropriate Commission action in response to the request.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.155
Review.
The Commission shall review the request, the Postal Service reply, and any public comment to determine whether the proposed modification to the market dominant and competitive product lists complies with applicable statutory requirements and the Commission's rules, and whether the proposed modification is consistent with the position of the Postal Service as expressed in its reply. The Commission shall either:
(a) Approve the request to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists, but only to the extent the modification is consistent with the position of the Postal Service;
(b) Reject the request;
(c) Institute further proceedings to consider the request to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.156
Further proceedings.
If the Commission determines that further proceedings are necessary, a conference shall be scheduled to consider the merits of going forward with the request. Upon conclusion of the conference, the Commission shall promptly issue a ruling to:
(a) Provide for a period of discovery to obtain further information;
(b) Schedule a hearing on the record for further consideration of the request;
(c) Explain the reasons for not going forward with formal proceedings; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart D—Proposal of the Commission to Modify the Product Lists
§ 3040.170
General.
The Commission, of its own initiative, may propose a modification to the market dominant product list or the competitive product list. For purposes of this part, modification shall be defined as adding a product to a list, removing a product from a list, or transferring a product from one list to the other list.
[81 FR 38957, June 15, 2016. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.171
Contents of a proposal.
A proposal to modify the market dominant product list or the competitive product list shall:
(a) Provide the name, and class if applicable, of each product that is the subject of the proposal;
(b) Indicate whether the proposal would add a product to the market dominant list or the competitive list, remove a product from the market dominant list or the competitive list, or move a product from the market dominant list to the competitive list or from the competitive list to the market dominant list;
(c) Indicate whether each product that is the subject of the proposal is:
(1) A special classification within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10) for market dominant products;
(2) A product not of general applicability within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3632(b) for competitive products; or
(3) A non-postal product.
(d) Provide justification supporting the proposal; and
(e) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed changes therein in legislative format.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.172
Supporting justification.
Supporting justification shall:
(a) Explain the reason for initiating the docket and explain why the change is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(b) Explain why, as to market dominant products, the change is not inconsistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code;
(c) Explain why, as to competitive products, the addition, subtraction, or transfer will not result in the violation of any of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(d) Verify that the change does not classify as competitive a product over which the Postal Service exercises sufficient market power that it can, without risk of losing a significant level of business to other firms offering similar products:
(1) Set the price of such product substantially above costs;
(2) Raise prices significantly;
(3) Decrease quality; or
(4) Decrease output.
(e) Explain whether or not each product that is the subject of the request is covered by the postal monopoly as reserved to the Postal Service under 18 U.S.C. 1696 subject to the exceptions set forth in 39 U.S.C. 601;
(f) Provide a description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the product;
(g) Provide any information available on the views of those who use the product involved on the appropriateness of the proposed modification;
(h) Provide a description of the likely impact of the proposed modification on small business concerns; and
(i) Include such information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Postal Service and users of the mail of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed modification.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.173
Docket and notice.
The Commission will establish a docket for each request to modify the market dominant list or the competitive product list, promptly publish notice of the request in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall include:
(a) The general nature of the proceeding;
(b) A reference to legal authority to which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(c) A concise description of the proposals for changes in the Mail Classification Schedule;
(d) The identification of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket;
(e) A specified period for public comment; and
(f) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.174
Postal Service notice and reply.
The Secretary of the Commission shall forward to the Postal Service a copy of the notice of proposal. Within 28 days of the filing of the proposal, the Postal Service shall provide its preliminary views in regard to the proposal. The Postal Service may include suggestions for appropriate further procedural steps.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.175
Review.
The Commission shall review the Postal Service reply and public comment. The Commission shall either:
(a) Approve the proposal to modify the market dominant and competitive product lists, but only to the extent the modification is consistent with the position of the Postal Service;
(b) Withdraw the proposal;
(c) Institute further proceedings to consider the proposal, identifying relevant issues that may require further development; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.176
Further proceedings.
If the Commission determines that further proceedings are appropriate, a conference shall be scheduled to consider the merits of going forward with the proposal. Upon conclusion of the conference, the Commission shall promptly issue a ruling to:
(a) Provide for a period of discovery to obtain further information;
(b) Schedule a hearing on the record for further consideration of the proposal;
(c) Explain the reasons for not going forward with formal proceedings; or
(d) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart E—Requests Initiated by the Postal Service To Make Material Changes or Minor Corrections to the Mail Classification Schedule

# Source:
80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3040.180
Material changes to product descriptions.
(a) Whenever the Postal Service proposes material changes to a product description in the Mail Classification Schedule, no later than 30 days prior to implementing the proposed changes, it shall submit to the Commission a request to change the product description in the Mail Classification Schedule.
(b) The request shall:
(1) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed changes therein in legislative format; and
(2) Provide all supporting justification for the changes upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.181
Supporting justification for material changes to product descriptions.
(a) Supporting justification for changes to a product description in the Mail Classification Schedule shall include a description of, and rationale for, the proposed changes to the product description; and the additional material in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)(1) As to market dominant products, explain why the changes are not inconsistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code, the applicable requirements of this part, and any applicable Commission directives and orders; or
(2) As to competitive products, explain why the changes will not result in the violation of any of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633 and part 3035 of this chapter.
(c) Describe the likely impact that the changes will have on users of the product and on competitors.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9658, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.182
Docket and notice of material changes to product descriptions.
(a) The Commission shall take the actions identified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b) Establish a docket for each request to change a product description in the Mail Classification Schedule;
(c) Publish notice of the request on its website;
(d) Designate an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket; and
(e) Provide interested persons with an opportunity to comment on whether the proposed changes are consistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code, the applicable requirements of this part, and any applicable Commission directives and orders.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.183
Commission review of material changes to product descriptions.
(a) The Commission shall review the request and any comments filed. The Commission shall take one of the actions identified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(b) Approve the proposed changes, subject to editorial corrections, and change the Mail Classification Schedule to coincide with the effective date of the proposed change;
(c) Reject the proposed changes;
(d) Provide the Postal Service with an opportunity to amend the proposed changes;
(e) Direct the Postal Service to make an appropriate filing under a different section;
(f) Institute further proceedings; or
(g) Direct other action that the Commission considers appropriate.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§§ 3040.184-3040.189
[Reserved]
§ 3040.190
Minor corrections to product descriptions.
(a) The Postal Service shall ensure that product descriptions in the Mail Classification Schedule accurately represent the current offerings of the Postal Service.
(b) The Postal Service shall submit minor corrections to product descriptions in the Mail Classification Schedule by filing notice with the Commission no later than 15 days prior to the effective date of the proposed corrections.
(c) The notice shall:
(1) Explain why the proposed corrections do not constitute material changes to the product description for purposes of § 3040.180;
(2) Explain why the proposed corrections are consistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code, the applicable requirements of this part, and any applicable Commission directives and orders; and
(3) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed corrections therein in legislative format.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9659, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.191
Docket and notice of minor corrections to product descriptions.
(a) The Commission shall take the actions identified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b) Establish a docket for each proposal to correct a product description in the Mail Classification Schedule;
(c) Publish notice of the proposal on its website;
(d) Designate an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket; and
(e) Provide interested persons with an opportunity to comment on whether the proposed corrections are consistent with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code, the applicable requirements of this part, and any applicable Commission directives and orders.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3040.192
Commission review of minor corrections to product descriptions.
(a) The Commission shall review the notice and any comments filed. The Commission shall take one of the actions identified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(b) Approve the proposed corrections, subject to editorial corrections, and change the Mail Classification Schedule to coincide with the effective date of the proposed change;
(c) Reject the proposed corrections;
(d) Provide the Postal Service with an opportunity to amend the proposed corrections;
(e) Direct the Postal Service to make an appropriate filing under a different section;
(f) Institute further proceedings; or
(g) Direct other action that the Commission considers appropriate.
[80 FR 35575, June 22, 2015. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart F—Size and Weight Limitations for Mail Matter
§ 3040.210
General.
Applicable size and weight limitations for mail matter shall appear in the Mail Classification Schedule as part of the description of each product.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.211
Limitations applicable to market dominant mail matter.
(a) The Postal Service shall inform the Commission of updates to size and weight limitations for market dominant mail matter by filing notice with the Commission 45 days prior to the effective date of the proposed update. The notice shall:
(1) Include a copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed updates therein in legislative format;
(2) Describe the likely impact that the proposed update will have on users of the product(s) and on competitors; and
(3) Describe how the proposed update is in accordance with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code.
(b) The Commission shall provide notice of the proposed update in the
Federal Register
and seek public comment on whether the proposed update is in accordance with the policies and
the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code.
(c) If the Commission finds the proposed update in accordance with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of 39 U.S.C., the Commission shall review the proposed Mail Classification Schedule language for formatting and conformance with the structure of the Mail Classification Schedule, and subject to editorial changes, shall change the Mail Classification Schedule to coincide with the effective date of the proposed update.
(d) If the Commission finds the proposed update not in accordance with the policies and the applicable criteria of chapter 36 of title 39 of the United States Code, the Commission may direct other action as deemed appropriate.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 84 FR 32317, July 8, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3040.212
Limitations applicable to competitive mail matter.
The Postal Service shall notify the Commission of updates to size and weight limitations for competitive mail matter pursuant to subpart E of this part.
[72 FR 63698, Nov. 9, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020]

# Subpart G—Requests for Market Dominant Negotiated Service Agreements

# Source:
85 FR 81138, Dec. 15, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3040.220
General.
This subpart imposes additional requirements whenever there is a request to add a negotiated service agreement to the market dominant product list. The additional supporting justification appearing in § 3040.221 also should be provided whenever the Postal Service proposes to modify the terms of an existing market dominant negotiated service agreement. Commission findings that the addition of a special classification is not inconsistent with 39 U.S.C. 3622 are provisional and subject to subsequent review. No rate(s) shall take effect until 45 days after the Postal Service files a request for review of a notice of a new rate or rate(s) adjustment specifying the rate(s) and the effective date.
§ 3040.221
Additional supporting justification for negotiated service agreements.
(a) Each request shall also include the items specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section.
(b) A copy of the negotiated service agreement.
(c) The planned effective date(s) of the planned rates.
(d) The identity of a responsible Postal Service official who will be available to provide prompt responses to requests for clarification from the Commission.
(e) A statement identifying all parties to the agreement and a description clearly explaining the operative components of the agreement.
(f) Details regarding the expected improvements in the net financial position or operations of the Postal Service (39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10)(A)(i) and (ii)). The projection of the change in net financial position as a result of the agreement shall be based on accepted analytical principles. The projection of the change in net financial position as a result of the agreement shall include for each year of the agreement:
(1) The estimated mailer-specific costs, volumes, and revenues of the Postal Service absent the implementation of the negotiated service agreement;
(2) The estimated mailer-specific costs, volumes, and revenues of the Postal Service which result from implementation of the negotiated service agreement;
(3) An analysis of the effects of the negotiated service agreement on the contribution to institutional costs from mailers not party to the agreement;
(4) If mailer-specific costs are not available, the source and derivation of the costs that are used shall be provided, together with a discussion of the currency and reliability of those costs and their suitability as a proxy for the mailer-specific costs; and
(5) If the Postal Service believes the Commission's accepted analytical principles are not the most accurate and reliable methodology available:
(i) An explanation of the basis for that belief; and
(ii) A projection of the change in net financial position resulting from the agreement made using the Postal Service's alternative methodology.
(g) An identification of each component of the agreement expected to enhance the performance of mail preparation, processing, transportation, or other functions in each year of the agreement, and a discussion of the nature and expected impact of each such enhancement.
(h) Details regarding any and all actions (performed or to be performed) to assure that the agreement will not result in unreasonable harm to the marketplace (39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10)(B)).
(i) A discussion in regard to how functionally similar negotiated service agreements will be made available on public and reasonable terms to similarly situated mailers.
(j) Such other information as the Postal Service believes will assist the Commission in issuing a timely determination of whether the requested changes are consistent with applicable statutory policies.
§ 3040.222
Data collection plan and report for negotiated service agreements.
(a) The Postal Service shall include with any request concerning a negotiated service agreement a detailed plan for providing data or information on actual experience under the agreement sufficient to allow evaluation of whether the negotiated service agreement operates in compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3622(c)(10).
(b) A data report under the plan is due 60 days after each anniversary date of implementation and shall include, at a minimum, the following information for each 12-month period the agreement has been in effect:
(1) The change in net financial position of the Postal Service as a result of the agreement. This calculation shall include for each year of the agreement:
(i) The actual mailer-specific costs, volumes, and revenues of the Postal Service;
(ii) An analysis of the effects of the negotiated service agreement on the net overall contribution to the institutional costs of the Postal Service; and
(iii) If mailer-specific costs are not available, the source and derivation of the costs that are used shall be provided, including a discussion of the currency and reliability of those costs and their suitability as a proxy for the mailer-specific costs.
(2) A discussion of the changes in operations of the Postal Service that have resulted from the agreement. This shall include, for each year of the agreement, identification of each component of the agreement known to enhance the performance of mail preparation, processing, transportation, or other functions in each year of the agreement.
(3) An analysis of the impact of the negotiated service agreement on the marketplace, including a discussion of any and all actions taken to protect the marketplace from unreasonable harm.
Pt. 3041

# PART 3041—COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATED SERVICE AGREEMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3041.105
General.
3041.110
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Advance Review
3041.205
Advance review of non-published rates products and standardized distinct products.

# Subpart C—Adding Negotiated Service Agreements to the Competitive Product List
3041.305
Applicability.
3041.310
General procedures and filing requirements.
3041.315
Procedures and filing requirements for umbrella products.
3041.320
Procedures and filing requirements for non-published rates negotiated service agreements.
3041.325
Procedures and filing requirements for standard distinct product negotiated service agreements.

# Subpart D—Commission Review
3041.405
Docket and notice.
3041.410
Required findings.
3041.415
Commission review and disposition of requests to add negotiated service agreements to the competitive product list.

# Subpart E—Negotiated Service Agreements on the Competitive Product List
3041.505
Amendments to competitive negotiated service agreements.
3041.510
Renewals of competitive negotiated service agreements.
3041.515
Extensions.
3041.520
Terminations.

# Subpart F—Negotiated Service Agreement Reporting and Compliance
3041.605
Competitive negotiated service agreement reporting requirements.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 39 U.S.C. 3633.

# Source:
89 FR 67295, Aug. 20, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3041.105
General.
(a) This part applies to competitive negotiated service agreements.
(b) When a general rule conflicts with a rule governing a specific streamlined option, the rule governing the specific streamlined option shall take precedence.
(c) Commission findings that the addition of a competitive negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633 are provisional and subject to subsequent review.
(d) The addition of a competitive negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list is limited to the term of the negotiated service agreement, as it may be extended. The Commission will remove a negotiated service agreement from the competitive product list automatically upon the expiration or termination of the negotiated service agreement. Any request to remove a negotiated service agreement from the competitive product list unrelated to expiration or termination of the negotiated service agreement shall follow the applicable procedures outlined in part 3040 of this chapter.
(e) When a rule in subpart E of this part conflicts with a provision of a negotiated service agreement added to the competitive product list before September 19, 2024, the provision of the negotiated service agreement shall take precedence.
§ 3041.110
Definitions.
The definitions in this section apply to this part.
(a)
Baseline agreement.
A negotiated service agreement that serves as a model for an included contract in an umbrella product.
(b)
Contract template.
A template for included contracts in a non-published rates product.
(c)
Financial model.
A workbook showing detailed projected cost, revenue, and volume data for a negotiated service agreement; containing all supporting inputs and calculations; and identifying the sources of all such inputs. A financial model must not be inconsistent with accepted analytical principles within the meaning of part 3050 of this chapter and must not be inconsistent with accepted quantification techniques within the meaning of part 3050 of this chapter.
(d)
Functionally equivalent negotiated service agreements.
Negotiated service agreements that have similar cost characteristics and similar market characteristics.
(e)
Included contract.
A negotiated service agreement included as part of an umbrella product or non-published rates product.
(f)
Minimum rates.
The set of lowest rates that could be offered pursuant to the terms of a negotiated service agreement, or specified in a financial model, for each rate cell.
(g)
Negotiated service agreement.
As defined in § 3010.101(f) of this chapter, a written contract, to be in effect for a defined period of time, between the Postal Service and a mailer, which provides for customer-specific rates or fees and/or terms of service in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. A rate associated with a negotiated service agreement is not a rate of general applicability.
(h)
Negotiated Service Agreement (NSA) summary proceeding.
A streamlined proceeding considering a Postal Service
request to add to the competitive product list a product for which use of a financial model has been authorized in a streamlined-option rulemaking or a Postal Service request to amend such a product. Such a proceeding is not a public proceeding.
(i)
Non-published rates product.
A single product consisting of a contract template and any included contracts that are functionally equivalent to the contract template and use a single common financial model.
(j)
Notice information.
Contact information specified in a negotiated service agreement for one party to provide the other party with notice in accordance with the terms of the negotiated service agreement.
(k)
Postal Service executive.
The Postmaster General, the Deputy Postmaster General, or a Postal Service vice president. The term “Postal Service executive” also includes any Postal Career Executive Service employee whose principal duties include the administration of negotiated service agreements and who reports directly to the Postal Service vice president overseeing the administration of negotiated service agreements.
(l)
Rate cell.
Each and every separate rate identified in a financial model or negotiated service agreement.
(m)
Standardized distinct product.
A negotiated service agreement that is a variation of one or more competitive products offered as rates of general applicability or added to the competitive product list as rates not of general applicability.
(n)
Streamlined option.
An optional procedural approach to filing requirements for a request to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list and to review of such negotiated service agreement.
(o)
Streamlined-option rulemaking.
A rulemaking proceeding that considers financial models, contract templates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes in connection with a streamlined option.
(p)
Umbrella product.
A single product consisting of a baseline agreement and one or more included contracts that are functionally equivalent to the baseline agreement.

# Subpart B—Advance Review
§ 3041.205
Advance review of non-published rates products and standardized distinct products.
(a) The Commission reviews proposed financial models, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes in streamlined-option rulemakings to permit streamlined review of non-published rates products and standardized distinct products.
(b) Streamlined-option rulemakings follow the procedures set forth in part 3010, subpart E of this chapter and the additional procedures set forth in this section.
(c) In addition to providing the information required by § 3010.201(b)(1) of this chapter, a petition for a streamlined-option rulemaking must:
(1) Provide a proposed financial model containing:
(i) Minimum rates for all rate cells;
(ii) Projected volume for all rate cells;
(iii) Projected revenue at minimum rates;
(iv) Projected costs attributable;
(v) Projected coverage of costs attributable within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3633(a), expressed as a percentage; and
(vi) All input data, sources, and calculations used;
(2) Provide a narrative explanation of how the proposed financial model complies with paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(3) Explain why the projected cost, revenue, and volume data in the proposed financial model are reasonable and reliable;
(4) Identify the existing competitive product(s) on which proposed products will be based and the Commission order(s) in which such existing competitive product(s) were determined to be competitive;
(5) Identify each way in which proposed products could differ from the existing competitive product(s) identified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(6) Explain why the potential differences identified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section do not cause any proposed products to satisfy the definition of a market dominant product within the meaning of 39 U.S.C. 3642(b)(1); and
(7) Identify the Mail Classification Schedule section in which proposed products will be listed and provide any proposed changes therein in legislative format.
(d) The financial model must:
(1) Demonstrate that each negotiated service agreement that will use the minimum rates is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633; and
(2) Rely on reasonable and reliable projected cost, revenue, and volume data.
(e) The Mail Classification Schedule entry, including any proposed changes, must:
(1) Identify all material differences between proposed products and the exiting competitive product(s) on which proposed products are based;
(2) Specify all options and features of proposed products included in the financial model; and
(3) For proposed products based on an existing product with rates not of general applicability, including a negotiated service agreement, describe all material aspects of the proposed products, including the information identified in § 3040.104(b)(3)(ii)(A) of this chapter.
(f) The Commission will issue an order authorizing the proposed financial model, minimum rates, and any Mail Classification Schedule changes for use in requests to add standardized distinct products and non-published rates products to the competitive product list if, after review, the Commission finds that:
(1) The financial model and minimum rates are not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(2) The products using such proposed financial model, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes will be competitive products; and
(3) The proposed Mail Classification Schedule changes comply with the requirements of this section and are not inconsistent with the proposed financial model.
(g) As a condition of any authorization issued pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the Postal Service shall be required to update the financial model whenever more accurate or complete cost, revenue, or volume data are available and no less frequently than every 12 months from the date on which such authorization is granted. Upon review of any updated financial model, the Commission may require changes to any applicable minimum rates to ensure that the minimum rates are not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.

# Subpart C—Adding Negotiated Service Agreements to the Competitive Product List
§ 3041.305
Applicability.
(a) This subpart imposes requirements regarding the addition of negotiated service agreements to the competitive product list. These requirements are in addition to other requirements imposed by part 3035 of this chapter.
(b) The general requirements appearing in § 3041.310 apply to a request to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list unless the request is filed under one of the streamlined, alternative options for competitive negotiated service agreement consideration appearing in §§ 3041.315, 3041.320, and 3041.325.
(c) Section 3041.320 is not applicable to any request to add an included contract to a non-published rates product listed on the competitive product list as of the effective date of this part. Any such request is governed by the terms of the Commission order approving the addition of such non-published rates contract to the competitive product list.
§ 3041.310
General procedures and filing requirements.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in §§ 3041.315, 3041.320, and 3041.325, in order to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list, a request must be filed with the Commission as provided in this section and § 3035.105 of this chapter.
(b) Each request to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list must include each of the following items:
(1) A copy of the negotiated service agreement;
(2) The rate and class decision of the Postal Service Board of Governors
under 39 U.S.C. 3632 relating to the proposed negotiated service agreement and the record of the proceedings in connection with such decision;
(3) A copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed changes therein in legislative format;
(4) The name, and class if applicable, of the proposed negotiated service agreement;
(5) A description clearly explaining the operative components of the negotiated service agreement;
(6) An explanation of the reason for initiating the docket and of why the proposed negotiated service agreement is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(7) An explanation of the reasons why the addition of the product to the competitive product list will not result in a violation of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(8) Verification that the change does not classify as competitive a product over which the Postal Service exercises sufficient market power that it can, without risk of losing a significant level of business to other firms offering similar products:
(i) Set the price of such product substantially above costs;
(ii) Raise prices significantly;
(iii) Decrease quality; or
(iv) Decrease output;
(9) Explanation of whether or not the proposed negotiated service agreement is covered by the postal monopoly as reserved to the Postal Service under 18 U.S.C. 1696 subject to the exceptions set forth in 39 U.S.C. 601;
(10) A description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the proposed negotiated service agreement or substantially similar products;
(11) Any information available on the views of those who use, or will use, the proposed negotiated service agreement on the appropriateness of the proposed negotiated service agreement;
(12) A description of the likely impact of the proposed negotiated service agreement on small business concerns;
(13) The information required by § 3035.105(a) of this chapter;
(14) The information required by § 3035.105(b) of this chapter;
(15) The information required by § 3035.105(c) of this chapter;
(16) All other supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(17) Such other information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed negotiated service agreement.
(c) In order to authorize the addition of a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list, the Commission must:
(1) Give due regard to:
(i) The availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the proposed product;
(ii) The views of those who will use the proposed product on the appropriateness of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list; and
(iii) The likely impact of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list on small business concerns; and
(2) Make the following findings:
(i) The proposed negotiated service agreement is a competitive product; and
(ii) The proposed negotiated service agreement is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
§ 3041.315
Procedures and filing requirements for umbrella products.
(a) The procedures described in this section and in § 3035.105(a) of this chapter apply to requests to add an included contract to an umbrella product or to create an umbrella product by adding an included contract to an existing baseline agreement. Requests to add a new negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list for use as a baseline agreement must instead follow the requirements of § 3041.310.
(b) Any of the following negotiated service agreements may function as a baseline agreement:
(1) An active negotiated service agreement, other than an included contract in a non-published rates product,
listed on the competitive product list as of the effective date of this part.
(2) An active negotiated service agreement added to the competitive product list following a request pursuant to § 3041.310.
(3) An expired or terminated negotiated service agreement, other than an included contract in a non-published rates product or a standardized distinct product, that the Commission authorized to serve as a baseline agreement before its expiration or termination.
(c) Only the Postal Service is permitted to propose to add an included contract to an umbrella product.
(d) A proposal to add an included contract to an umbrella product must include:
(1) A copy of the proposed included contract;
(2) The rate and class decision of the Postal Service Board of Governors under 39 U.S.C. 3632 relating to the proposed included contract and the record of the proceedings in connection with such decision;
(3) A statement identifying the applicable baseline agreement;
(4) A copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed addition thereto in legislative format;
(5) A description clearly explaining the operative components of the included contract;
(6) An explanation of the reason for initiating the docket and of why the proposed negotiated service agreement is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(7) An explanation of the reasons why the addition of the included contract to the umbrella product will not result in a violation of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(8) A demonstration that the proposed included contract is functionally equivalent to the baseline agreement;
(9) The information required by § 3035.105(a) of this chapter;
(10) The information required by § 3035.105(b) of this chapter;
(11) The information required by § 3035.105(c) of this chapter;
(12) All other supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(13) Such other information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed included contract.
(e) In order to authorize the addition of an included contract to an umbrella product, the Commission must make the following findings:
(1) The proposed included contract is functionally equivalent to the baseline agreement; and
(2) With the addition of the proposed included contract, the umbrella product is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
§ 3041.320
Procedures and filing requirements for non-published rates negotiated service agreements.
(a) A request to add a non-published rates product to the competitive product list must comply with the requirements of this section and the requirements of § 3035.105(a) of this chapter.
(b) A non-published rates product contract template may be proposed at any time during or following the pendency of a streamlined-option rulemaking considering a proposed financial model, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes for standardized distinct products and non-published rates products.
(c) A non-published rates product is added to the competitive product list after:
(1) Issuance of a Commission order authorizing the use of an applicable financial model, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes in a streamlined-option rulemaking; and
(2) Issuance of a Commission order approving the non-published rates product contract template.
(d) A non-published rates product financial model, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes must be, or have been, proposed in a streamlined-option rulemaking.
(e) A proposal for a non-published rates product contract template must include the following information:
(1) The proposed non-published rates product contract template;
(2) The rate and class decision of the Postal Service Board of Governors under 39 U.S.C. 3632 relating to the proposed non-published rates product contract template and the record of the proceedings in connection with such decision;
(3) A copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed addition therein in legislative format;
(4) The number of the Commission order approving the use of the financial model associated with the proposed non-published rates product contract template or the number of the docket in which the financial model associated with the proposed non-published rates product contract template is being considered;
(5) A description clearly explaining the operative components of the non-published rates product contract template;
(6) A description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the postal services involved in the proposed non-published rates product contract template;
(7) A description of the views of those who will use the postal services involved in the proposed non-published rates product contract template on the appropriateness of the proposed non-published rates product contract template;
(8) A description of the likely impact of the proposed non-published rates product contract template on small business concerns;
(9) In lieu of the certified statement required by § 3035.105(c)(2) of this chapter, a sworn statement of a Postal Service executive certifying that the proposed non-published rates product contract template is not inconsistent with the financial model approved, or under consideration by the Commission, in the order or docket identified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section;
(10) All other supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(11) Such other information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed non-published rates product contract template.
(f) A non-published rates product contract template may include optional provisions to be selected by customers, provided that:
(1) The addition of any optional provision in any included contract will not be inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(2) The addition of any optional provision in any included contract represents a minor change to the included contract; and
(3) Each included contract that could be derived from the contract template is functionally equivalent to every other included contract that could be derived from the contract template.
(g) In order to authorize the addition of a non-published rates product to the competitive product list, the Commission must:
(1) Give due regard to:
(i) The availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the proposed product;
(ii) The views of those who will use the proposed product on the appropriateness of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list; and
(iii) The likely impact of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list on small business concerns; and
(2) Make the following findings:
(i) The proposed non-published rates product is a competitive product; and
(ii) The proposed non-published rates product contract template is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
(h) After a non-published rates product has been approved, the Postal Service may add one or more included contracts to the product without filing a request or otherwise obtaining further approval from the Commission, provided that:
(1) The included contract does not deviate in any way from the non-published rates product contract template;
(2) No rate in any included contract is less than the corresponding minimum rate authorized in the associated streamlined-option rulemaking;
(3) The included contract bears a unique serial number; and
(4) Within 10 days after the effective date of each included contract, the Postal Service:
(i) Notifies the Commission of the effective date and scheduled expiration date of the included contract; and
(ii) Files a version of the applicable financial model updated to include all projected cost, revenue, and volume data specific to the included contract.
(i) Only the Postal Service is permitted to add an included contract to a non-published rates product.
(j) If any included contract is terminated before its scheduled expiration date, the Postal Service must inform the Commission within 7 days after such termination.
(k) If the Commission finds that the Postal Service has failed to comply with any requirements of paragraph (h) or (j) of this section, the Commission may take any of the following actions:
(1) Require the Postal Service to request Commission approval in accordance with such terms as the Commission may specify by order, and obtain such approval, before adding any additional included contracts to non-published rates products; or
(2) Take other appropriate remedial action.
§ 3041.325
Procedures and filing requirements for standard distinct product negotiated service agreements.
(a) A request to add a standardized distinct product to the competitive product list must comply with the requirements of this section and the requirements of § 3035.105(a) of this chapter.
(b) A standardized distinct product may be proposed at any time during or following the pendency of a streamlined-option rulemaking considering a proposed financial model, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes for standardized distinct products and non-published rates products. A single standardized distinct product may include minimum rates and Mail Classification Schedule changes authorized in multiple streamlined-option rulemakings.
(c) A standardized distinct product is added to the competitive product list after:
(1) Issuance of one or more Commission orders authorizing the use of one or more applicable proposed financial models, minimum rates, and Mail Classification Schedule changes in a streamlined-option rulemaking; and
(2) Issuance of a Commission order approving the addition of the standardized distinct product to the competitive product list in an NSA summary proceeding.
(d) In each NSA summary proceeding, the Postal Service shall submit:
(1) A copy of the negotiated service agreement;
(2) The rate and class decision of the Postal Service Board of Governors under 39 U.S.C. 3632 relating to the proposed negotiated service agreement and the record of the proceedings in connection with such decision;
(3) A copy of the applicable sections of the Mail Classification Schedule and the proposed addition therein in legislative format;
(4) The number(s) of the Commission order(s) resolving the streamlined-option rulemaking(s) applicable to the proposed negotiated service agreement;
(5) The planned effective date(s) of the planned rates.
(6) A description clearly explaining the operative components of the negotiated service agreement;
(7) An explanation of the reason for initiating the docket and of why the proposed standardized distinct product is not inconsistent with the applicable requirements of this part and any applicable Commission directives and orders;
(8) An explanation of the reasons why the addition of the standardized distinct product to the competitive product list will not result in a violation of the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633;
(9) A description of the availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the postal services that are the subject of the proposed standardized distinct product;
(10) Any information available on the views of those who use, or will use, the proposed standardized distinct product
on the appropriateness of the proposed standardized distinct product;
(11) A description of the likely impact of the proposed standardized distinct product on small business concerns;
(12) In lieu of the certified statement required by § 3035.105(c)(2) of this chapter, a sworn statement of a Postal Service executive certifying that the proposed standardized distinct product is not inconsistent with the financial model authorized for use in the applicable Commission order identified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section;
(13) In lieu of the revenue and cost data required by § 3035.105(c)(1) of this chapter, a version of the applicable financial model updated to include all projected cost, revenue, and volume data specific to the proposed product;
(14) All other supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(15) Such other information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed standardized distinct product.
(e) Only the Postal Service is permitted to propose to add a standardized distinct product to the competitive product list.
(f) In order to authorize the addition of a standardized distinct product to the competitive product list, the Commission must:
(1) Give due regard to:
(i) The availability and nature of enterprises in the private sector engaged in the delivery of the proposed product;
(ii) The views of those who will use the proposed product on the appropriateness of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list; and
(iii) The likely impact of adding the proposed product to the competitive product list on small business concerns; and
(2) Make the following findings:
(i) The proposed standardized distinct product is a competitive product; and
(ii) The proposed standardized distinct product is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.

# Subpart D—Commission Review
§ 3041.405
Docket and notice.
(a) The Commission will issue a notice establishing a docket for each request to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list under this part. The Commission will also issue a notice upon receiving a request complying with the requirements of § 3041.505(b) to amend an existing negotiated service agreement. Notices issued pursuant to this paragraph (a) will include:
(1) The general nature of the proceeding;
(2) A reference to the legal authority pursuant to which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(3) A concise description of the proposal;
(4) If applicable, the identification of an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket;
(5) If applicable, a specified period for public comment; and
(6) Such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
(b) The Commission will post the notice on its website. The Commission will promptly publish the notice in the
Federal Register
.
(c) In the case of a request to add a standardized distinct product to the competitive product list or to amend a standardized distinct product, an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public will not be appointed in the docket.
(d) In the case of a request to add a standardized distinct product to the competitive product list or to amend a standardized distinct product, public comment will not be requested in the docket.
§ 3041.410
Required findings.
(a) In order to authorize the addition of a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list, the Commission must make the findings specified in § 3041.310, except as provided in §§ 3041.315, 3041.320, and 3041.325.
(b) [Reserved].
§ 3041.415
Commission review and disposition of requests to add negotiated service agreements to the competitive product list.
(a) The Commission will review each request to add a negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list and any responsive comments, except as set forth in § 3041.320 regarding non-published rates product included contracts. The Commission will either:
(1) Grant the request upon making the required findings;
(2) Grant the request upon making the required findings with such conditions as the Commission may consider appropriate;
(3) Deny the request; or
(4) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
(b) Each grant of a request under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section is conditional upon the submission of accurate information in support of the request. Any such grant may be revoked if the Commission finds that any of the information submitted with the request contained a material misrepresentation.

# Subpart E—Negotiated Service Agreements on the Competitive Product List
§ 3041.505
Amendments to competitive negotiated service agreements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an amendment to an existing negotiated service agreement is not effective until the Commission has approved the amendment. In order to approve an amendment to an existing negotiated service agreement the Commission must find that the negotiated service agreement, as amended by the proposed amendment, is not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
(b) A request to amend a negotiated service agreement must include:
(1) A copy of the amendment;
(2) The planned effective date(s) of the amendment;
(3) A statement explaining the operative components of the amendment; and
(4) If the amendment changes any rates in the negotiated service agreement,
(i) The information required by § 3035.105(a) of this chapter;
(ii) The information required by § 3035.105(b) of this chapter; and
(iii) The information required by § 3035.105(c) of this chapter, except that, for a request to amend a standardized distinct product, a copy of the applicable financial model updated to include all projected cost, revenue, and volume data specific to the product, as amended by the proposed amendment, must be provided.
(5) All other supporting justification upon which the Postal Service proposes to rely; and
(6) Such other information and data, and such statements of reasons and bases, as are necessary and appropriate to fully inform the Commission of the nature, scope, significance, and impact of the proposed amendment.
(c) An amendment to an existing negotiated service agreement may take effect upon filing with the Commission without Commission approval if each of the following requirements is satisfied:
(1) The Postal Service submits a notice to the Commission containing:
(i) A copy of the amendment;
(ii) The planned effective date(s) of the amendment;
(iii) A statement explaining the operative components of the amendment; and
(iv) A sworn statement from a Postal Service executive attesting that the amendment modifies the existing negotiated service agreement only in one or more of the ways specified in paragraph (c)(2), (e)(2), or (f)(2) of this section; and
(2) The amendment modifies the existing negotiated service agreement only in one or more of the following ways:
(i) Changing the customer's name to recognize a change to the legal name of the customer;
(ii) Changing the customer's address;
(iii) Changing the name of any individual identified in the contract;
(iv) Changing notice information;
(v) Increasing any rates, prices, fees, or charges in the negotiated service agreement;
(d) Special rules regarding amending umbrella products.
(1) A baseline agreement shall not be amended, except to:
(i) Change the customer's name to recognize a change to the legal name of the customer;
(ii) Change the customer's address;
(iii) Change the name of any individual identified in the contract;
(iv) Change notice information;
(v) Extend the term of the baseline agreement in accordance with § 3041.515; or
(vi) Make rate changes not inconsistent with the standards of 39 U.S.C. 3633.
(2) An included contract in an umbrella product shall not be amended, unless the amendment remains functionally equivalent to the baseline agreement.
(e) Special rules regarding non-published rates products.
(1) A non-published rates contract template shall not be amended.
(2) An included contract in a non-published rates product shall not be amended, except to:
(i) Change the customer's name to recognize a change to the legal name of the customer;
(ii) Change the customer's address;
(iii) Change the name of any individual identified in the contract;
(iv) Change notice information;
(v) Make rate changes provided that the rates to be charged equal or exceed the current minimum rates approved by the Commission in the applicable streamlined-option rulemaking;
(vi) Extend the included contract's expiration date provided that the rates to be charged equal or exceed the current minimum rates approved by the Commission in the applicable streamlined-option rulemaking;
(vii) Select an alternative optional provision available in the contract template.
(3) An amendment to an existing included contract will take effect without Commission further approval upon filing with the Commission of the notice specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(f) Special rules regarding standardized distinct products.
(1) A request to amend a standardized distinct product is reviewed in an NSA summary proceeding.
(2) An amendment to an existing standardized distinct product may take effect upon filing with the Commission without Commission approval if:
(i) The Postal Service files the notice specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(ii) The amendment modifies the existing standardized distinct product in one or more of the following ways:
(A) Changing the customer's name to recognize a change to the legal name of the customer;
(B) Changing the customer's address;
(C) Changing the name of any individual identified in the contract;
(D) Changing notice information;
(E) Extending the standardized distinct product's expiration date provided that the rates to be charged equal or exceed the current minimum rates approved by the Commission in the applicable streamlined-option rulemaking; or
(F) Implementing changes to rates provided that such changed rates equal or exceed the current minimum rates approved by the Commission in the applicable streamlined-option rulemaking.
(g) Special rules regarding a request to amend a negotiated service agreement to extend the expiration date of the negotiated service agreement.
(1) A request to amend a negotiated service agreement to extend the expiration date of the negotiated service agreement must be submitted in accordance with § 3041.515.
(2) A proceeding considering a request to amend a negotiated service agreement to extend the expiration date of the negotiated service agreement is not a public proceeding.
(h) When a general rule conflicts with a special rule in this section, the special rule shall take precedence.
§ 3041.510
Renewals of competitive negotiated service agreements.
(a) A renewal of a negotiated service agreement is deemed a new negotiated service agreement.
(b) A renewal of a competitive negotiated service agreement will be added to the competitive product list pursuant to the applicable rules for adding a new negotiated service agreement to the competitive product list.
§ 3041.515
Extensions.
(a) A negotiated service agreement may be extended prior to its expiration date upon one of the following:
(1) Timely filing of notice with the Commission of the valid exercise of an extension right in the negotiated service agreement; or
(2) Approval by the Commission of a timely filed amendment extending the expiration date of the negotiated service agreement.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a notice or amendment is timely filed if it is filed at least 7 days prior to the expiration of the negotiated service agreement.
(c) Upon expiration, a negotiated service agreement shall be removed automatically from the competitive product list.
(d) No negotiated service agreement shall remain on the competitive product list following its expiration. An expired negotiated service agreement shall not be extended retroactively.
(e) Notwithstanding any other rule in this chapter, the prohibitions in paragraph (d) of this section shall not be waived.
§ 3041.520
Terminations.
(a) The Postal Service shall file notice of the termination of a negotiated service agreement within 7 days after such termination.
(b) Upon termination, a negotiated service agreement shall be removed automatically from the competitive product list. No negotiated service agreement shall remain on the competitive product list after its termination.

# Subpart F—Negotiated Service Agreement Reporting and Compliance
§ 3041.605
Competitive negotiated service agreement reporting requirements.
(a) The Postal Service must file, on a quarterly basis, a summary spreadsheet listing all negotiated service agreements active during any part of the prior quarter. Negotiated service agreements must be listed by Mail Classification Schedule section or in such other way as the Commission requires by order. Such spreadsheet must identify all extensions, expirations, and terminations of negotiated service agreements and any other information the Commission requires by order.
(b) A report is due within 14 days after the last day of each quarter of the fiscal year.
(c) Upon finding that any report contains significant omissions, inaccuracies, or other deficiencies, the Commission may take any of the following actions:
(1) Require the Postal Service to file such reports on a more frequent basis;
(2) Require a Postal Service executive to submit a sworn statement attesting to the accuracy and completeness of each subsequent report; and
(3) Impose other conditions the Commission finds reasonable and appropriate to ensure the accuracy and completeness of such reports.
Pt. 3045

# PART 3045—RULES FOR MARKET TESTS OF EXPERIMENTAL PRODUCTS
Sec.
3045.1
Applicability.
3045.2
Advance notice.
3045.3
Contents of notice.
3045.4
Review.
3045.5
Commission action.
3045.6
Changes in market test.
3045.7-3045.9
[Reserved]
3045.10
Duration.
3045.11
Extension of market test.
3045.12
Cancellation of market test.
3045.13-3045.14
[Reserved]
3045.15
Dollar amount limitation.
3045.16
Exemption from dollar amount limitation.
3045.17
Prevention of market disruption.
3045.18
Request to add a non-experimental product or price category based on an experimental product to the product list.
3045.19
[Reserved]
3045.20
Data collection and reporting requirements.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3641.

# Source:
79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 85 FR 9615, Feb. 19, 2020.
§ 3045.1
Applicability.
The rules in this part apply to market tests of experimental products undertaken pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3641.
§ 3045.2
Advance notice.
The Postal Service shall file notice with the Commission of its determination to initiate a market test at least 30 days before initiating the market test.
§ 3045.3
Contents of notice.
(a) Notices of proposed market tests shall include:
(1) The basis for the Postal Service's determination that the market test is governed by 39 U.S.C. 3641, which shall:
(i) Describe, from the viewpoint of mail users, how the experimental product is significantly different from all products offered by the Postal Service within the 2 fiscal years preceding the start of the market test;
(ii) Establish that the introduction or continued offering of the experimental product will not create an unfair or otherwise inappropriate competitive advantage for the Postal Service or any mailer, particularly in regard to small business concerns, as defined in § 3010.101(t) of this chapter; and
(iii) Identify the experimental product as either market dominant or competitive for purposes of the market test, and explain the reasoning for the categorization in accordance with the criteria set forth in 39 U.S.C. 3642(b)(1).
(2) A description of the nature and the scope of the market test that:
(i) Describes the market test and experimental product;
(ii) Demonstrates why the market test is not inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641;
(iii) Identifies the beginning and ending dates of the market test;
(iv) Describes the geographic market(s) where the market test may be conducted;
(v) Estimates the total revenue that is anticipated by the Postal Service for each fiscal year of the market test, including available supporting documentation; and
(vi) Includes a data collection plan for the market test, including a description of the specific data items to be collected. The minimum data collection plan requirements are described in § 3045.20.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3045.4
Review.
(a) The Commission will establish a docket for each market test initiated under this part, promptly publish a notice in the
Federal Register,
and post the filing on its website. The notice shall:
(1) Describe the general nature of the proceeding;
(2) Refer to the legal authority under which the proceeding is to be conducted;
(3) Identify an officer of the Commission to represent the interests of the general public in the docket;
(4) Specify a period for public comment; and
(5) Include such other information as the Commission deems appropriate.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3045.5
Commission action.
(a) The Commission shall review the Postal Service notice together with any comments for initial compliance with the statutory requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641, and:
(1) Find that the market test is consistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641;
(2) Find that the market test is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and provide an opportunity to correct the identified deficiencies;
(3) Find that the market test is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and order that the market test not go into effect; or
(4) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3045.6
Changes in market test.
(a) The Postal Service shall file a notice with the Commission describing each material change made to the market test or services offered under the market test at least 10 days before implementing such changes. Material changes are changes that may affect compliance with 39 U.S.C. 3641 and include, without limitation, adjustments
to prices, geographic scope, eligibility for service, and termination date.
(b) The Commission may, in its discretion, notice the filing and provide an opportunity for comment.
§§ 3045.7-3045.9
[Reserved]
§ 3045.10
Duration.
A market test may not exceed 24 months in duration unless the Commission authorizes an extension pursuant to a request filed by the Postal Service under § 3045.11.
[85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3045.11
Extension of market test.
(a) The Postal Service may request an extension of the duration of a market test, not to exceed an additional 12 months, if such an extension is necessary to determine the feasibility or desirability of a product being tested. The Postal Service must file a written request for extension with the Commission at least 60 days before the market test is scheduled to terminate.
(b) The request for extension shall:
(1) Explain why an extension is necessary to determine the feasibility or desirability of the experimental product;
(2) List the new end date for the market test;
(3) Calculate the total revenue received by the Postal Service from the market test for each fiscal year the market test has been in operation and provide supporting documentation for the calculations;
(4) Estimate the additional revenue that is anticipated by the Postal Service for each fiscal year remaining on the market test, including the requested extension period, and provide available supporting documentation; and
(5) Provide any additional information necessary for the Commission to evaluate the continued consistency with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641.
(c) The Commission shall review the Postal Service request for extension to ensure that an extension is necessary in order to determine the feasibility or desirability of the experimental product and:
(1) Find that the extension is consistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641;
(2) Find that the extension is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and provide an opportunity to correct the identified deficiencies;
(3) Find that the extension is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and deny the extension; or
(4) Direct other action as the Commission considers appropriate.
§ 3045.12
Cancellation of market test.
(a) The Postal Service may cancel a market test at any time. It shall file notice of cancellation with the Commission within 10 days of cancelling the market test.
(b) Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3641(f), the Commission may direct the Postal Service to demonstrate that the market test continues to meet the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and the Commission's rules. The Commission, in its discretion, may provide an opportunity for comments.
(c) Based upon its review, the Commission may:
(1) Find that the market test is consistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641;
(2) Find that the market test is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and provide an opportunity to correct the identified deficiencies;
(3) Find that the market test is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and cancel the market test; or
(4) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
§§ 3045.13-3045.14
[Reserved]
§ 3045.15
Dollar amount limitation.
(a) The Consumer Price Index used for calculations under this part is the CPI-U index, as specified in § 3030.141(a) of this chapter.
(b) An experimental product may only be tested if total revenues that are anticipated or received by the Postal Service do not exceed $10 Million in any fiscal year, as adjusted for the change in the CPI-U index, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section ($10 Million Adjusted Limitation). Total revenues anticipated or received may
exceed the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation in any fiscal year if an exemption is granted pursuant to § 3045.16.
(c) For each fiscal year, the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation shall reflect the average CPI result during the previous fiscal year calculated as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The Commission shall publish this figure annually, after the close of the fiscal year, on its website at
http://www.prc.gov.
(d) The calculation of the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation involves the following steps. First, a simple average CPI-U index was calculated for fiscal year 2008 by summing the monthly CPI-U values from October 2007 through September 2008 and dividing the sum by 12 (Base Average). The resulting Base Average is 214.463. Then, a second simple average CPI-U index is similarly calculated for each subsequent fiscal year by summing the 12 monthly CPI-U values for the previous fiscal year and dividing the sum by 12 (Recent Average). Finally, the annual limitation for the current fiscal year is calculated by multiplying $10,000,000 by the Recent Average divided by 214.463. The result is expressed as a number, rounded to the nearest dollar.
(e) The formula for calculating the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation is as follows: $10 Million Adjusted Limitation = $10,000,000 * (Recent Average/214.463).
[79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 975, Feb. 1, 2019; 85 FR 9659, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 81139, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3045.16
Exemption from dollar amount limitation.
(a) The Postal Service may request an exemption from the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation by filing a written request with the Commission. In no instance shall the request for exemption exceed the market test dollar amount limitation of $50,000,000 in any fiscal year, as adjusted for the change in the CPI-U index, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section ($50 Million Adjusted Limitation).
(b) For each fiscal year, the $50 Million Adjusted Limitation shall reflect the average CPI result during the previous fiscal year calculated as described in paragraph (c) of this section. The Commission shall publish this figure annually, after the close of the fiscal year, on its website at
http://www.prc.gov.
(c) The calculation of the $50 Million Adjusted Limitation involves the following steps. First, a simple average CPI-U index was calculated for fiscal year 2008 by summing the monthly CPI-U values from October 2007 through September 2008 and dividing the sum by 12 (Base Average). The resulting Base Average is 214.463. Then, a second simple average CPI-U index is similarly calculated for each subsequent fiscal year by summing the 12 monthly CPI-U values for the previous fiscal year and dividing the sum by 12 (Recent Average). Finally, the annual limitation for the current fiscal year is calculated by multiplying $50,000,000 by the Recent Average divided by 214.463. The result is expressed as a number, rounded to the nearest dollar.
(d) The formula for calculating the $50 Million Adjusted Limitation is as follows: $50 Million Adjusted Limitation = $50,000,000 * (Recent Average/214.463).
(e) The Postal Service shall file its request for exemption at least 45 days before it expects to exceed the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation.
(f) The request for exemption shall:
(1) Explain how the experimental product will:
(i) Benefit the public and meet an expected demand;
(ii) Contribute to the financial stability of the Postal Service; and
(iii) Not result in unfair or otherwise inappropriate competition;
(2) Calculate the total revenue received by the Postal Service from the market test for each fiscal year the market test has been in operation, and provide supporting documentation;
(3) Estimate the additional revenue that is anticipated by the Postal Service for each fiscal year remaining on the market test, including any extension period granted by the Commission in accordance with § 3045.11(c), and provide available supporting documentation; and
(4) Quantify the product specific costs associated with the development
of the market test; that is, costs incurred before the market test is implemented.
(g) The Commission shall review the request for exemption for consistency with the statutory requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and:
(1) Find that the exemption is consistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641;
(2) Find that the exemption is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and provide an opportunity to correct the identified deficiencies;
(3) Find that the exemption is inconsistent with the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3641 and deny the exemption; or
(4) Direct other action as the Commission may consider appropriate.
[79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 975, Feb. 1, 2019; 85 FR 9659, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3045.17
Prevention of market disruption.
Notwithstanding the $10 Million Adjusted Limitation or any adjustment granted pursuant to § 3045.16, the Commission may limit the amount of revenues the Postal Service may obtain from any particular geographic market as necessary to prevent the creation of an unfair or otherwise inappropriate competitive advantage for the Postal Service or any mailer, particularly in regard to small business concerns, as defined in § 3010.101(t) of this chapter.
[85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3045.18
Request to add a non-experimental product or price category based on an experimental product to the product list.
(a) If the Postal Service seeks to add a non-experimental product or price category based on a former or current experimental product to the market dominant or competitive product list, the Postal Service shall file a request, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3642 and part 3040, subpart B of this chapter, to add a non-experimental product or price category to the applicable product list.
(b) The Postal Service shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section of this section if the proposed non-experimental product or price category:
(1) Offers the same (or similar) service as a former or current experimental product;
(2) Has the same distinct cost or market characteristic as a former or current experimental product; or
(3) Uses (or is based on) data or assumptions from a former or current market test proceeding.
(c) A request filed under this section shall:
(1) Identify the market test and docket number that the proposed non-experimental product or price category is based on;
(2) Explain the relationship between the proposed non-experimental product or price category and market test or experimental product;
(3) Identify any assumptions from the market test that the request uses or is based on;
(4) Include all data from data collection reports filed during the market test in the financial model supporting the request, or separately identify and explain any differences between the data collection reports filed during the market test and the data used in the financial model supporting the request; and
(5) Quantify the product specific costs associated with the development of the market test; that is, costs incurred before the market test was implemented.
(d) The Postal Service must provide advance notice of a request filed under this section.
(1)(i) The requirements in this paragraph (d)(1) apply if the Postal Service seeks to add a non-experimental product or price category based on an experimental product to the competitive product list as an NSA. If the Postal Service seeks to continue the services provided under a market test immediately when the market test ends with no interruption in service, the Postal Service must file a request under this section at least 45 days before:
(A) The market test expires (including any extension period granted); or
(B) The market test is expected to exceed any authorized limitation specified in §§ 3045.15 and 3045.16 during any fiscal year, whichever is earlier.
(ii) In all other instances, the Postal Service must file a request under this
section at least 45 days before the requested date for the Commission's decision.
(2)(i) The requirements in this paragraph (d)(2) apply if the Postal Service seeks to add a non-experimental product or price category based on an experimental product to the market dominant or competitive product list as a product other than a competitive NSA. If the Postal Service seeks to continue the services provided under a market test immediately when the market test ends with no interruption in service, the Postal Service must file a request under this section at least 60 days before:
(A) The market test expires (including any extension period granted); or
(B) The market test is expected to exceed any authorized limitation specified in §§ 3045.15 and 3045.16 during any fiscal year, whichever is earlier.
(ii) In all other instances, the Postal Service must file a request under this section at least 60 days before the requested date for the Commission's decision.
(e) The Postal Service shall also file a notice of a request filed under this section in the market test proceeding's docket if the market test proceeding's docket is an active case before the Commission. This notice shall include the applicable docket number(s) for the proceeding evaluating the request.
[84 FR 975, Feb. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020; 85 FR 29325, May 15, 2020]
§ 3045.19
[Reserved]
§ 3045.20
Data collection and reporting requirements.
(a) A notice of a market test shall include a data collection plan for the market test as required by § 3045.3(a)(2)(vi). Data collection plans shall include, at a minimum:
(1) The revenue by fiscal quarter received to date by the Postal Service from the market test;
(2) Attributable costs incurred in conducting the market test, including product specific costs related to the administration of the market test; and
(3) Volumes of the experimental product by fiscal quarter.
(b) The Commission may request additional information or data as it deems appropriate.
(c) To assess the potential impact of a market test in a particular geographic market, the Commission may require the Postal Service to report the revenues from the market test for specified geographic markets.
(d) The Postal Service shall file the information required by the data collection plan in data collection reports. Data collection reports must be filed within 40 days after the close of each fiscal quarter during which the market test is offered, or such other period as the Commission may prescribe.
(e) The Postal Service shall file in its Annual Compliance Report information on each market test conducted during the fiscal year pursuant to § 3050.21(h) of this chapter.
[79 FR 54563, Sept. 11, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020]

# SUBCHAPTER F—PERIODIC REPORTING, ACCOUNTING PRACTICES, AND TAX RULES
Pt. 3050

# PART 3050—PERIODIC REPORTING
Sec.
3050.1
Definitions applicable to this part.
3050.2
Documentation of periodic reports.
3050.3
Access to information supporting Commission reports or evaluations.
3050.10
Analytical principles to be applied in the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
3050.11
Proposals to change an accepted analytical principle applied in the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
3050.12
Obsolescence of special studies relied on to produce the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
3050.13
Additional documentation required in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.14
Format of the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.20
Compliance and other analyses in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.21
Content of the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.22
Documentation supporting attributable cost estimates in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.23
Documentation supporting incremental cost estimates in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.24
Documentation supporting estimates of costs avoided by worksharing and other mail characteristics in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
3050.25
Volume and revenue data.
3050.26
Documentation of demand elasticities and volume forecasts.
3050.27
Workers' Compensation Report.
3050.28
Monthly and pay period reports.
3050.30
Information needed to estimate the cost of the universal service obligation. [Reserved]
3050.35
Financial reports.
3050.40
Additional financial reporting.
3050.41
Treatment of additional financial reports.
3050.42
Proceedings to improve the quality of financial data.
3050.43
Information on program performance.
3050.50
Information pertaining to cost and service for flat-shaped mail.
3050.55
Information pertaining to cost reduction initiatives.
3050.60
Miscellaneous reports and documents.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503, 3651, 3652, 3653.

# Source:
74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3050.1
Definitions applicable to this part.
(a)
Accepted analytical principle
refers to an analytical principle that was applied by the Commission in its most recent Annual Compliance Determination unless a different analytical principle subsequently was accepted by the Commission in a final rule.
(b)
Accepted quantification technique
refers to a quantification technique that was applied in the most recent iteration of the periodic report applying that quantification technique or was used to support a new analytical principle adopted in a subsequent rule 3050.11 proceeding.
(c)
Analytical principle
refers to a particular economic, mathematical, or statistical theory, precept, or assumption applied by the Postal Service in producing a periodic report to the Commission.
(d)
Annual Compliance Determination
refers to the report that 39 U.S.C. 3653 requires the Commission to issue each year evaluating the compliance of the Postal Service.
(e)
Annual periodic reports to the Commission
refers to all of the reports that the Postal Service is required to provide to the Commission each year.
(f)
Quantification technique
refers to any data entry or manipulation technique whose validity does not require the acceptance of a particular economic, mathematical, or statistical theory, precept, or assumption. A change in quantification technique should not change the output of the analysis in which it is employed.
(g)
Section 3652 report
refers to the annual compliance report provided by the Postal Service to the Commission pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3652, but does not include the reports required by 39 U.S.C. 2803 and 2804.
§ 3050.2
Documentation of periodic reports.
(a) At the time that it submits any periodic report to the Commission, the
Postal Service shall identify any input data that have changed, list any quantification techniques that it has changed, and list any corrections that it has made since that report was last submitted to and accepted by the Commission. It shall provide a brief narrative explanation of each listed change.
(b) If workpapers are required to support a periodic report, they shall:
(1) Show all calculations employed in producing each estimate;
(2) Be sufficiently detailed to allow all numbers used in such calculations to be traced back to public documents or to primary data sources; and
(3) Be submitted in a form, and be accompanied by sufficient explanation and documentation, to allow them to be replicated using a publicly available PC application.
(c) Spreadsheets used in preparing periodic reports shall be submitted in electronic form. They shall display the formulas used, their links to related spreadsheets, and shall not be password protected.
(d) Filing of portions of the documentation required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section that are not time critical may be delayed up to 2 weeks if the Postal Service obtains permission from the Commission to defer filing of such portions at least 30 days prior to the date on which the periodic report is due.
§ 3050.3
Access to information supporting Commission reports or evaluations.
(a) The Commission shall have access to material if, in its judgment, the information supports any report, assessment, or evaluation required by title 39 of the United States Code, including:
(1) The working papers and supporting matter of the Postal Service or the Postal Service Inspector General in connection with any information submitted under 39 U.S.C. 3652; and
(2) Information that supports the Commission's annual assessment under 39 U.S.C. 3651.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3050.10
Analytical principles to be applied in the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
In its annual periodic reports to the Commission, the Postal Service shall use only accepted analytical principles. With respect to its submissions under § 3050.26, however, the Postal Service may elect to use an analytical principle prior to its acceptance by the Commission.
§ 3050.11
Proposals to change an accepted analytical principle applied in the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
(a) To improve the quality, accuracy, or completeness of the data or analysis of data contained in the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission, the Commission, acting on its own behalf, may issue a notice of proceeding to change an accepted analytical principle. In addition, any interested person, including the Postal Service or a public representative, may submit a petition to the Commission to initiate such a proceeding.
(b)
Form and content of notice or petition.
The notice of proceeding or petition shall identify the accepted analytical principle proposed for review, explain its perceived deficiencies, and suggest how those deficiencies should be remedied.
(1) If the notice of proceeding or petition proposes that a specific alternative analytical principle be followed, it should include the data, analysis, and documentation on which the proposal is based, and, where feasible, include an estimate of the impact of the proposed change on the relevant characteristics of affected postal products, including their attributable cost, avoided cost, average revenue, or service attainment.
(2) If the petitioner requests access to data from the Postal Service to support the assertions or conclusions in its petition, and such data are not otherwise available, it shall accompany the petition with a request to gain access to such data. The petitioner's request should identify the data sought, and include the reasons for believing that the data will support its petition. To expedite its evaluation of the data
request, the Commission may, after reasonable public notice, order that answers or objections be presented orally or in writing.
(c)
Procedures for processing a notice or petition.
To better evaluate a notice or petition to change an accepted analytical principle, the Commission may order that it be made the subject of discovery. By request of any interested person, or on its own behalf, the Commission may order that the petitioner and/or the Postal Service provide experts on the subject matter of the proposal to participate in technical conferences, prepare statements clarifying or supplementing their views, or answer questions posed by the Commission or its representatives.
(d)
Action on the notice or petition.
(1) After the conclusion of discovery procedures, if any, the Commission shall determine whether to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking based on the petition and the supporting material received. Such notice shall be evaluated by procedures that are consistent with 5 U.S.C. 553. Interested parties will be afforded an opportunity to present written comments and reply comments, and, if the Commission so orders, to present oral comments as well.
(2) If accepted by the Commission, the change proposed in the notice of proposed rulemaking shall be published in a final rule in the
Federal Register
and on the Commission's website.
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3050.12
Obsolescence of special studies relied on to produce the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission.
The Postal Service shall provide a list of special studies whose results are used to produce the estimates in its annual periodic reports to the Commission. It shall indicate the date the study was completed and whether the study reflects current operating conditions and procedures. The Postal Service shall update the list annually.
§ 3050.13
Additional documentation required in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
At the time the Postal Service files its section 3652 report, it shall include a brief narrative explanation of any changes to accepted analytical principles that have been made since the most recent Annual Compliance Determination was issued and the reasons that those changes were accepted.
§ 3050.14
Format of the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
The Postal Service's Cost and Revenue Analysis (CRA) report shall be presented in a format reflecting the classification structure in the Mail Classification Schedule.
[79 FR 24336, Apr. 30, 2014]
§ 3050.20
Compliance and other analyses in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
(a) The Postal Service's section 3652 report shall include an analysis of the information that it contains in sufficient detail to demonstrate the degree to which, in the fiscal year covered by its report, each of its products (market dominant and competitive) comply with all of the applicable provisions of title 39 of the United States Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and promote the public policy objectives set out in title 39 of the United States Code.
(b) Its analysis shall be applied to products individually, and, where appropriate, to products collectively.
(c) It shall address such matters as non-compensatory rates and failures to achieve stated goals for on-time delivery standards. A more detailed analysis is required when the Commission observed and commented upon the same matter in its Annual Compliance Determination for the previous fiscal year.
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 81139, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3050.21
Content of the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
(a) No later than 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall submit a report to the Commission analyzing its cost, volume, revenue, rate, and service information in sufficient detail to demonstrate that all products during such year comply with all applicable provisions of title 39 of the United States Code. The report
shall provide the items in paragraphs (b) through (o) of this section.
(b) The volume and revenue generated by each product;
(c) The attributable costs of, and the contribution to institutional costs made by, each product;
(d) The quality of service received by each market dominant product, including the speed of delivery and the reliability of delivery;
(e) For each market dominant workshare discount offered during the reporting year:
(1) The per-item cost avoided by the Postal Service by virtue of such discount;
(2) The percentage of such per-item cost avoided that the per-item workshare discount represents;
(3) The per-item contribution made to institutional costs;
(4) The factual and analytical bases for any claim that one or more of the exception provisions of 39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(A) through (e)(2)(D) or 39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(3)(A) through (e)(3)(B) apply; and
(5) For each workshare discount that is provided in connection with a subclass of mail, consisting exclusively of mail matter of educational, cultural, scientific, or informational value (39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(C)), exceeded the cost avoided by the Postal Service for not providing the applicable service, and was not set in accordance with at least one specific provision appearing in § 3030.262(b) through (d) of this chapter, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) The number of mail owners receiving the workshare discount;
(ii) The number of mail owners for the applicable product or products; and
(iii) An explanation of how the workshare discount promotes the public interest, even though the workshare discount substantially exceeds the cost avoided by the Postal Service;
(f) For each market dominant negotiated service agreement:
(1) Identify its rates and service features;
(2) Estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues;
(3) Analyze its effect on the operational performance of the Postal Service, specifying the affected operations and, to the extent possible, quantifying the effect;
(4) Analyze the contribution of the agreement to institutional costs for its most recent year of operation. The year analyzed shall end on the anniversary of the negotiated service agreement that falls within the fiscal year covered by the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission and include the 12 preceding months. The analysis shall show all calculations and fully identify all inputs. Inputs used to estimate the effect on total contribution to the Postal Service, such as unit costs and price elasticities, shall be updated using fiscal year values;
(5) Analyze the effect of the negotiated service agreement (and other functionally equivalent negotiated service agreements) on the marketplace. If there were harmful effects, explain why those effects were not unreasonable; and
(6) Provide financial or other supporting documentation that demonstrates that non-compensatory market dominant negotiated service agreements improve the net financial position of the Postal Service over default rates or enhance the performance of mail preparation, processing, transportation, or other functions.
(g) For each competitive negotiated service agreement:
(1) Identify its rates and service features; and
(2) Estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues.
(h) For market tests of experimental products:
(1) Estimate their costs, volumes, and revenues individually, and in aggregate, by market dominant and by competitive product group;
(2) Estimate the quality of service of each individual experimental product; and
(3) Indicate whether offering the experimental product has created an inappropriate competitive advantage for the Postal Service or any mailer.
(i) For each nonpostal service, estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues; and
(j) For all market dominant and competitive products:
(1) Provide a distribution breakdown of fee revenues, including all underlying calculations and source workpapers; and
(2) Provide any third-party service performance results upon which any financial penalty or bonus is determined, and identify the amount of any forfeited revenue;
(k) Provide all total workhour data and data sources showing workhour measurements by Labor Distribution Code;
(l) For the Inbound Letter Post product, provide revenue, volume, attributable cost, and contribution data by Universal Postal Union country group and by shape for the fiscal year subject to review and each of the preceding 4 fiscal years;
(m) Input data and calculations used to produce the annual Total Factor Productivity estimates;
(n) Copies of notifications to the Postal Service by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) of annual determinations of the funding amounts specific to payments at the end of each fiscal year computed under 5 U.S.C. 8909a(d)(2)(B) and 5 U.S.C. 8909a(d)(3)(B)(ii); 5 U.S.C. 8348(h)(2)(B) and 5 U.S.C. 8423(b)(3)(B); 5 U.S.C. 8423(b)(1)(B) and 5 U.S.C. 8423(b)(2); and
(o) Provide any other information that the Postal Service believes will help the Commission evaluate the Postal Service's compliance with the applicable provisions of title 39 of the United States Code.
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 49293, Oct. 1, 2018; 85 FR 81139, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3050.22
Documentation supporting attributable cost estimates in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (p) of this section shall be reported when they have changed from those used in the most recent Annual Compliance Determination.
(b) The CRA report, including relevant data on international mail services;
(c) The Cost Segments and Components (CSC) report;
(d) All input data and processing programs used to produce the CRA report, to include:
(1) CSC Reconciliation to Financial Statement and Account Reallocations;
(2) Manual Input Requirement (reflecting direct accounting or modeled costs);
(3) The CSC “A” report (showing how indirect costs are distributed to products based on the distribution of direct costs);
(4) The CSC “B” report (showing how indirect Property Equipment Supplies Services and Administrative (PESSA) costs are distributed to products;
(5) The CSC “D” report (showing final adjustments to total attributable and product-specific costs);
(6) The CSC “F” report (containing distribution keys for indirect labor components);
(7) The control file that includes the CRA program control string commands used to produce the CRA and the above-described CSC reports; and
(8) The master list of cost segment components, including all of the components used as distribution keys in the development of the CSC report and its accompanying reports.
(e) Spreadsheet workpapers underlying development of the CSC report by component. These workpapers shall include the updated factors and input data sets from the supporting data systems used, including:
(1) The In-Office Cost System (IOCS);
(2) The Management Operating Data System (MODS);
(3) The City Carrier Cost System (CCCS);
(4) The City Carrier Street Time Sampling System (CCSTS);
(5) The Rural Carrier Cost System (RCCS);
(6) The National Mail Count;
(7) The Transportation Cost System (TRACS);
(8) System for International Revenues and Volumes/Outbound (SIRV/O);
(9) System for International Revenues and Volumes/Inbound (SIRV/I);
(10) Military and International Dispatch and Accountability System; and
(11) Inbound International Revenue Accounting Systems (IAB data).
(f) The econometric analysis of carrier street time, including input data, processing programs, and output;
(g) The Window Service Supply Side Variability, Demand Side Variability,
and Network Variability studies, including input data, processing programs, and output;
(h) The econometric analysis of purchased highway transportation cost variability, including input data, processing programs, and output;
(i) The econometric analysis of freight rail cost variability, including input data, processing programs, and output;
(j) A list and summary description of any transportation contracts whose unit rates vary according to the level of postal volume carried. The description should include the product or product groups carried under each listed contract;
(k) Spreadsheets and processing programs distributing attributable mail processing costs;
(l) The Vehicle Service Driver Data Collection System;
(m) Input data, processing programs, and output of the Vehicle Service Driver Cost Variability Study;
(n) Econometric analysis of postmaster cost variability;
(o) Floor Space Survey; and
(p) Density studies used to convert weight to cubic feet of mail.
§ 3050.23
Documentation supporting incremental cost estimates in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
Input data, processing programs, and output of an incremental cost model shall be reported.
§ 3050.24
Documentation supporting estimates of costs avoided by worksharing and other mail characteristics in the Postal Service's section 3652 report.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section shall be reported, including supporting calculations and derivations.
(b) Letter, card, flat, parcel and non-flat machinable mail processing cost models with Delivery Point Sequence percentages calculated, which shall include:
(1) Coverage factors for any equipment where coverage is less than 100 percent;
(2) MODS productivities;
(3) Piggyback factors and supporting data;
(4) Entry profiles, bundle sorts, and pieces per bundle;
(5) Bundle breakage, handlings, and density;
(6) Mail flow density and accept rates;
(7) Remote Computer Reader finalization costs, cost per image, and Remote Bar Code Sorter leakage;
(8) Percentage of mail finalized to carrier route;
(9) Percentage of mail destinating at post office boxes; and
(10) Wage rates and premium pay factors.
(c) Pallet cost models for Periodicals;
(d) Sack cost models for Periodicals;
(e) Bundle cost models for Periodicals;
(f) Other container cost models for Periodicals;
(g) Analysis of Periodicals container costs;
(h) Business Reply Mail cost supporting material;
(i) Mail processing units costs for Carrier Route, High Density, and Saturation mail;
(j) Mail processing unit costs by shape and cost pool for each product and benchmark category;
(k) Delivery costs by product, shape, presort level, automation compatibility, and machinability, including Detached Address Label cost calculations; and
(l) Dropship cost avoidance models.
§ 3050.25
Volume and revenue data.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section shall be provided.
(b) The Revenue, Pieces, and Weight (RPW) report, including estimates by shape, weight, and indicia, and the underlying billing determinants, broken out by quarter, within 90 days of the close of each fiscal year;
(c) Revenue, pieces, and weight by rate category and special service by quarter, within 40 days of the close of Quarters 1, 2, and 3 of the fiscal year and 60 days after Quarter 4, but no later than the filing of reports filed pursuant to section 3050.40(a) or 3050.40(b);
(d) Quarterly Statistics Report, including estimates by shape, weight, and indicia, within 40 days of the close
of Quarters 1, 2, and 3 of the fiscal year and 60 days after Quarter 4 but no later than the filing of reports filed pursuant to section 3050.40(a) or 3050.40(b); and
(e) Billing determinants within 60 days of the close of Quarters 1, 2, and 3 of the fiscal year and 90 days after Quarter 4.
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 49293, Oct. 1, 2018]
§ 3050.26
Documentation of demand elasticities and volume forecasts.
By January 20 of each year, the Postal Service shall provide econometric estimates of demand elasticity for all postal products accompanied by the underlying econometric models and the input data sets used; and a volume forecast for the current fiscal year, and the underlying volume forecasting model.
§ 3050.27
Workers' Compensation Report.
The Workers' Compensation Report, including summary workpapers, shall be provided by March 1 of each year.
§ 3050.28
Monthly and pay period reports.
(a) The reports in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be provided within 15 days of the close of the relevant period or as otherwise stated.
(b) Monthly Summary Financial Report on the 24th day of the following month, except that the reports for the last months of Quarters 1, 2, and 3 of the fiscal year shall be provided at the time that the Form 10-Q report is provided and the report for the last month of Quarter 4 of the fiscal year shall be provided at the time that the Form 10-K report is provided;
(1) The report shall follow the formats as shown below.
Table 1—USPS Monthly Financial Statement
Month, Fiscal Year
[$ millions]
Current Period
Actual
Plan
SPLY
% Plan Var
% SPLY Var
Year-to-Date
Actual
Plan
SPLY
% Plan Var
% SPLY Var
Revenue:
Operating Revenue
Other Revenue
Total Revenue
Operating Expenses
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Transportation
Supplies and Services
Other Services
Total Operating Expenses
Net Operating Income
Interest Income
Interest Expense
Total Net Income
Other Operating Statistics
Mail Volume (Millions)
Total Market Dominant Volumes
Total Competitive Product Volumes
Total Mail Volumes
Total Workhours (Millions)
Total Career Employees
Total Non-Career Employees
Table 2—Mail Volume and Mail Revenue
Month, Fiscal Year
[Thousands]
Current Period
Actual
SPLY
% SPLY Var
Year-to-Date
Actual
SPLY
% SPLY Var
Market Dominant Products:
First Class:
Volume
Revenue
Periodicals:
Volume
Revenue
USPS Marketing Mail:
Volume
Revenue
Package Services:
Volume
Revenue
All Other Market Dominant Mail:
Volume
Revenue
Total Market Dominant Products:
Volume
Revenue
Total Competitive Products
Volume
Revenue
Total Operating Revenue:
Total Volume
ER05MY09.005
ER05MY09.006
(2) [Reserved]
(c) National Consolidated Trial Balances and the Revenue and Expense Summary on the 24th day of the following month, except that the reports for the last month of Quarters 1, 2, and
3 of the fiscal year shall be provided at the time that the Form 10-Q report is provided and the report for the last month of Quarter 4 of the fiscal year shall be provided at the time that the Form 10-K report is provided;
(d) National Payroll Hours Summary in electronic form (pay period);
(e) On-roll and Paid Employee Statistics (ORPES) (pay period); and
(f) Postal Service Active Employee Statistical Summary (HAT report) (pay period).
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 49294, Oct. 1, 2018]
§ 3050.30
Information needed to estimate the cost of the universal service obligation. [Reserved]
§ 3050.35
Financial reports.
(a) The reports in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section shall be provided annually at the time indicated.
(b) Annual Report of the Postmaster General (when released to the public);
(c) Congressional Budget Submission and supporting workpapers, including Summary Tables SE 1, 2, and 6 (within 7 days of the submission of the Federal Budget by the President to the Congress); and
(d) Integrated Financial Plan (within 7 days of approval by the Board of Governors).
§ 3050.40
Additional financial reporting.
(a)
In general.
The Postal Service shall file with the Commission:
(1) Within 40 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, a quarterly report containing the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in quarterly reports under sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d)) on Form 10-Q, as such form (or any successor form) may be revised from time to time;
(2) Within 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, an annual report containing the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in annual reports under such sections on Form 10-K, as such form (or any successor form) may be revised from time to time; and
(3) Periodic reports within the time frame and containing the information prescribed in Form 8-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as such form (or any successor form) may be revised from time to time.
(b)
Internal control report.
For purposes of defining the reports required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Postal Service shall comply with the rules prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission implementing section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7262), beginning with the annual report for fiscal year 2010.
(c)
Financial reporting.
The reports required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall include, with respect to the Postal Service's pension and post-retirement health obligations:
(1) The funded status of the Postal Service's pension and post-retirement health obligations;
(2) Components of the net change in the fund balances and obligations and the nature and cause of any significant changes;
(3) Components of net periodic costs;
(4) Cost methods and assumptions underlying the relevant actuarial valuations;
(5) The effect of a 1 percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year on the service and interest costs components of net periodic post-retirement health cost and the accumulated obligation;
(6) Actual contributions to and payments from the funds for the years presented and the estimated future contributions and payments for each of the following 5 years;
(7) The composition of plan assets reflected in the fund balances; and
(8) The assumed rate of return on fund balances and the actual rates of return for the years presented.
(d)
Time of filing.
Within 5 business days of receiving the data listed under paragraph (c) of this section from the Office of Personnel Management, the Postal Service shall provide two copies of that data to the Commission.
(e)
Segment reporting.
(1) Beginning with reports for fiscal year 2010, for purposes of the reports required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2)
of this section, the Postal Service shall include segment reporting.
(2) The Postal Service shall determine the appropriate segment reporting under paragraph (e)(1) of this section after consultation with the Commission.
§ 3050.41
Treatment of additional financial reports.
(a) For purposes of the reports required by § 3050.40(a)(2), the Postal Service shall obtain an opinion from an independent auditor on whether the information listed in § 3050.40(c) is fairly stated in all material respects, either in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole or on a stand-alone basis.
(b)
Supporting matter.
The Commission shall have access to the audit documentation and any other supporting matter of the Postal Service and its independent auditor in connection with any information submitted under § 3050.40.
§ 3050.42
Proceedings to improve the quality of financial data.
The Commission may, on its own motion or on request of an interested party, initiate proceedings to improve the quality, accuracy, or completeness of Postal Service data required under § 3050.40 whenever it shall appear that the data have become significantly inaccurate or can be significantly improved; or those revisions are, in the judgment of the Commission, otherwise necessitated by the public interest.
§ 3050.43
Information on program performance.
(a) The Postal Service shall provide the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section at the same time that the President submits an annual budget to Congress:
(b)(1) The comprehensive statement required by 39 U.S.C. 2401(e);
(2) The performance plan required by 39 U.S.C. 2803; and
(3) The program performance reports required by 39 U.S.C. 2804.
(c) Section 3050.10 does not apply to the reports referenced in this section.
§ 3050.50
Information pertaining to cost and service for flat-shaped mail.
(a) The reports in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be filed with the Commission at the times indicated.
(b) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a financial report that analyzes data from the fiscal year for all mail products that consist of more than 80 percent flat-shaped mail. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) Volume and shape workpapers that identify products that contain more than 80 percent flat-shaped mail (flat-shaped products).
(2) Unit attributable cost workpapers for each flat-shaped product that is disaggregated into the following cost categories: Mail processing unit cost, delivery unit cost, vehicle service driver unit cost, purchased transportation unit cost, window service unit cost, and other unit cost.
(3) A narrative that explains the methodology used to calculate the unit attributable cost categories described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) A narrative supported by workpapers that identifies flat-shaped products for which the percentage change in average unit attributable cost was greater than the percentage change in total market dominant average unit attributable cost for the same fiscal year. The narrative must include identification of cost categories that are driving above average change in unit attributable cost for flat-shaped product and a specific plan to reduce unit attributable cost for the identified flat-shaped product.
(5) An analysis of volume trends, and mail mix changes for flat-shaped products from FY 2013 to present, which includes, at a minimum, a comparison of:
(i) The aggregate unit attributable costs for combined flat-shaped products for each fiscal year,
(ii) The calculated estimate of aggregate unit attributable costs for combined flat-shaped products for each fiscal year, using FY 2013 fiscal year's volume distribution,
(iii) A narrative that identifies drivers of changes in volume trends and mail mix, and
(iv) A narrative that explains the methodology used to calculate the estimated unit attributable cost described in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
(6) An analysis of the Flat Sequencing System (FSS), which includes, at a minimum, the percent of flat-shaped mail destinating in a FSS zone that were not finalized on FSS equipment, the cost of processing flat-shaped mail on the FSS, and the delivery point sequence (DPS) percentage of FSS mail. In addition, a narrative that identifies drivers of changes in the results of the analysis between fiscal years.
(7) A manual processing analysis, which includes, at a minimum, the cost of manually processing flat-shaped mail, the percent of flat-shaped mail that was manually processed, and the percent of flat-shaped mail that was entered at automation prices. In addition, a narrative that identifies drivers of changes in the results of the analysis between fiscal years.
(8) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of bundle processing on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of bundle processing on flat-shaped products.
(9) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of low productivity on automated equipment on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of low productivity on automated equipment on flat-shaped products.
(10) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of manual processing on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of manual processing on flat-shaped products.
(11) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of allied operations on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of allied operations on flat-shaped products.
(12) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of transportation on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of transportation on flat-shaped products.
(13) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the cost impact of last mile/delivery on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the cost impact of last mile/delivery on flat-shaped products.
(c) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a service report that analyzes data from the fiscal year for all mail products that consist of more than 80 percent flat-shaped mail. At a minimum, the analysis must include:
(1) Service performance scores for all flat-shaped products.
(2) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of bundle processing on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of bundle processing on flat-shaped products.
(3) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of low productivity on automated equipment on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of low productivity on automated equipment on flat-shaped products.
(4) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of manual processing on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of manual processing on flat-shaped products.
(5) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of allied operations on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of allied operations on flat-shaped products.
(6) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of transportation on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of transportation on flat-shaped products.
(7) An estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the service impact of
last mile/delivery on flat-shaped products for the fiscal year. If no estimate is available, provide a timeline to estimate the service impact of last mile/delivery on flat-shaped products.
(d) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file an analysis of costs by operationally relevant grouping from FY 2013 to present.
(1) The report shall utilize fiscal year data filed in accordance with § 3050.22, and § 3050.28(c) and (d) and any other data necessary to complete the analysis.
(2) The report shall also include a narrative that explains the methodology used to calculate costs by operationally relevant grouping.
(e) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file the following reports that include data by both quarter and fiscal year, as well as at the national level and at the facility level unless otherwise specified. The reports shall include, at a minimum, five years of quarterly historical fiscal year data covering the reporting year and the previous four fiscal years.
(1) Bundle Breakage Visibility Reports which include, at a minimum, number of bundles processed, number of bundles processed by class, product, facility, and machine type, number of broken bundles; and number of broken bundles by class, product, facility, and machine type.
(2) Mail Processing Variance Reports, which include, at a minimum, for each machine type that process flat-shaped mail: Category, plant/facility, volume, actual workhours, earned workhours (target hours), productivity, variance, and percent achieved, and target productivities, including narrative that explains methodology used to develop target.
(3) eFlash Report, which includes, at a minimum manual letter and flats volume, manual letter and flats workhours, manual letter and flats cost analysis, manual letter and flats handling time, and manual letter and flats handling cost per piece.
(4) Work in Process metrics, which include, at a minimum, measurement of: unload scan to bundle sorter scan, unload scan to tray mechanization scan, bundle sorter scan to mail processing equipment piece scan, tray mechanization scan to next automation scan, and unload scan to first automation scan.
(5) First-Class Mail Root Cause Point Impact Report, which includes, at a minimum, root cause, shape, service standard, point impact, rank, results attributed to air transit Automated Area Distribution Center (AADC)/Area Distribution Center (ADC) processing delays, and results attributed to surface transit AADC/ADC processing delays.
(6) SVWeb Report, which includes, at a minimum, on-time departure percentage, on-time arrival percentage, space utilization type by container type, average load percentage, total number of late containers, misrouted containers based on unload scans at unexpected site, National Performance Assessment (NPA) goals, goal achievement, the total score for six required scans, trips on time, space utilization targets, and comparison of fiscal year space utilization to targets.
(7) Last Mile Impact Report, which includes, at a minimum, overall on-time score, on-time score at last processing, and last mile impact for all flat-shaped products at each service standard.
(8) For each report listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section, the Postal Service shall provide a narrative that describes any changes made to underlying data systems during the fiscal year that impact the methodology used to produce the report.
(9) For each report listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section, the Postal Service shall provide a narrative that discusses trends, changes, and reasons for any changes in data within the report.
(10) If any of the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section no longer exist by that name in any year, the Postal Service must provide the closest successor to that report to provide the required information. The Postal Service must identify all differences between the original report and the successor report, and provide a narrative that explains the impact of using the successor report opposed to the original report.
(f) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report that identifies all national operational changes and/or initiatives that occurred during the fiscal year related to flat-shaped mail and all planned national operational changes and/or initiatives for the next fiscal year related to flat-shaped mail. The operational changes and/or initiatives should impact operations related to flat-shaped mail, impact the cost of flat-shaped mail, and/or impact the service of flat-shaped mail.
(1) The report shall identify data from paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and/or (e) of this section that will be impacted by each operational change/initiative.
(2) The report shall also include an estimate, with supporting workpapers, of the impact of each operational change/initiative on the data selected in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report that identifies all data enhancements that occurred during the fiscal year related to data systems that affect flat-shaped mail. The data enhancements identified should have an impact on measuring, tracking, and/or reporting on flat-shaped mail cost, operations, and/or service.
[84 FR 20806, May 13, 2019]
§ 3050.55
Information pertaining to cost reduction initiatives.
(a) The reports in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be filed with the Commission at the times indicated in paragraphs (b) through (f).
(b) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a financial report that analyzes cost data from the fiscal year. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the percentage change shall compare the fiscal year under review to the previous fiscal year. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) For all market dominant mail, the percentage change in total unit attributable cost;
(2) For each market dominant mail product, the percentage change in unit attributable cost;
(3) For the system as a whole, total average cost per piece, which includes all Postal Service competitive and market dominant attributable costs and institutional costs;
(4) The percentage change in total average cost per piece;
(5) Market dominant unit attributable cost by product;
(6) If the percentage change in unit attributable cost for a market dominant mail product is more than 0.0 percent and exceeds the percentage change in total market dominant mail unit attributable cost, then the following information shall be provided:
(i) Unit attributable cost workpapers for the product disaggregated into the following cost categories: mail processing unit cost, delivery unit cost, vehicle service driver unit cost, purchased transportation unit cost, window service unit cost, and other unit cost;
(ii) A narrative that identifies cost categories that are driving above average increases in unit attributable cost for the product and explains the reason for the above-average increase; and
(iii) A specific plan to reduce unit attributable cost for the product; and
(7) An analysis of volume trends and mail mix changes for each market dominant mail product from fiscal year 2017 through the end of the fiscal year under review, which shall include at a minimum:
(i) A comparison of actual unit attributable costs and estimated unit attributable costs for each market dominant mail product, using the volume distribution from fiscal year 2017;
(ii) A narrative that identifies the drivers of change in volume trends and the mail mix; and
(iii) A narrative that explains the methodology used to calculate the estimated unit attributable costs as required by paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section.
(c) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report with analysis of each planned cost reduction initiative that is expected to require Postal Service total expenditures of $5 million or more over the duration of the initiative. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) A narrative that describes each cost reduction initiative planned for
future fiscal years, including the status, the expected total expenditure, start date, end date, and any intermediate deadlines;
(2) Identification of a metric to measure the impact of each planned cost reduction initiative identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a narrative describing the selected metric, a narrative explaining the reason for selecting that metric, and a schedule approximating the months and fiscal years in which the cost reduction impact is expected to be measureable; and
(3) Estimates of the expected impact of each planned cost reduction initiative, with supporting workpapers, using the metric identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, total market dominant mail attributable unit cost, and total unit cost as calculated pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(d) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report that describes each active cost reduction initiative during the fiscal year which incurred or is expected to incur Postal Service expenditures of $5 million or more over the duration of the initiative. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) The information described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, based on actual data for the fiscal year, and a specific statement as to whether the initiative actually achieved the expected impact as measured by the selected metric;
(2) An explanation of the trends, changes, or other reasons that caused any variance between the actual information provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the estimated information previously provided under paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, if applicable;
(3) A description of any mid-implementation adjustments the Postal Service has taken or will take to align the impacts with the schedule; and
(4) Any revisions to the schedule of cost reduction impacts for future fiscal years.
(e) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report that summarizes all projects associated with a Decision Analysis Report for the fiscal year. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) A description of each project;
(2) The status of each project;
(3) An estimate of cost savings or additional revenues from each project; and
(4) The return on investment expected from each project.
(f) Within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall file a report that summarizes all planned projects that have an approved Decision Analysis Report for the next fiscal year. At a minimum, the report shall include:
(1) A description of each planned project;
(2) The status of each project;
(3) An estimate of the cost savings or additional revenues expected from each project; and
(4) The return on investment expected from each project.
[85 FR 81140, Dec. 15, 2020]
§ 3050.60
Miscellaneous reports and documents.
(a) The reports in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be provided at the times indicated in paragraphs (b) through (f).
(b) A master list of publications and handbooks, including those related to internal information procedures, data collection forms, and corresponding training handbooks by July 1, 2009, and again when changed;
(c) The items listed in paragraph (b) of this section in electronic form;
(d) Household Diary Study (when completed);
(e) Succinct narrative explanations of how the estimates in the most recent Annual Compliance Determination were calculated and the reasons that particular analytical principles were followed. The narrative explanations shall be comparable in detail to that which had been provided in Library Reference 1 in omnibus rate cases processed under the Postal Reorganization Act (by July 1 of each year); and
(f) An update of the history of changes in postal volumes, revenues, rates, and fees that appears in library references USPS-LR-L-73 through 76 in
Docket No. R2006-1 (by July 1 of each year).
[74 FR 20850, May 5, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 49295, Oct. 1, 2018; 85 FR 81141, Dec. 15, 2020]
Pt. 3055

# PART 3055—SERVICE PERFORMANCE AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION REPORTING

# Subpart A—Annual Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
Sec.
3055.1
Annual Reporting of service performance achievements.
3055.2
Contents of the annual report of service performance achievements.
3055.3
Reporting exceptions.
3055.4
Internal measurement systems.
3055.5
Changes to measurement systems, service standards, service goals or reporting methodologies.
3055.6
Addition of new market dominant products or changes to existing market dominant products.
3055.7
[Reserved]
3055.20
First-Class Mail.
3055.21
USPS Marketing Mail.
3055.22
Periodicals.
3055.23
Package Services.
3055.24
Special Services.
3055.25
Nonpostal Products.

# Subpart B—Periodic Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
3055.30
Periodic reporting of service performance achievements.
3055.31
Contents of the Quarterly Report of service performance achievements.
3055.32
Measurement systems using a delivery factor.
3055.45
First-Class Mail.
3055.50
USPS Marketing Mail.
3055.55
Periodicals.
3055.60
Package Services.
3055.65
Special Services.
3055.70
Non-postal products. [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reporting of Customer Satisfaction
3055.90
Reporting of customer satisfaction.
3055.91
Consumer access to postal services.
3055.92
Customer Experience Measurement Surveys.

# Subpart D—Public Performance Dashboard
3055.100
Definitions applicable to this subpart.
3055.101
Public Performance Dashboard.
3055.102
Contents of the Public Performance Dashboard.
3055.103
Format for data provided in the Public Performance Dashboard.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503; 3652; 3653; 3692(b) and (c); 3705.

# Source:
75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A— Annual Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
§ 3055.1
Annual Reporting of service performance achievements.
For each Market Dominant product specified in the Mail Classification Schedule in part 3040, appendix A to subpart A of part 3040 of this chapter (and for each competitive nonpostal service product specified in the Mail Classification Schedule in part 3040, appendix B to subpart A of part 3040 of this chapter), the Postal Service shall file a report as part of the section 3652 report addressing service performance achievements for the preceding fiscal year.
[88 FR 10038, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.2
Contents of the annual report of service performance achievements.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section shall be included in the annual report of service performance achievements.
(b) The class or group-specific reporting requirements specified in §§ 3055.20 through 3055.25.
(c) The applicable service standard(s) for each product. If there has been a change to a service standard(s) since the previous report, a description of and reason for the change shall be provided. If there have been no changes to service standard(s) since the previous report, a certification stating this fact shall be provided.
(d) The applicable service goal(s) for each product.
(e) A description of the measurement system for each product, including:
(1) A description of what is being measured;
(2) A description of the system used to obtain each measurement;
(3) A description of the methodology used to develop reported data from measured data;
(4) A description of any changes to the measurement system or data reporting methodology implemented within the reported fiscal year; and
(5) Where proxies are used, a description of and justification for the use of each proxy.
(f) A description of the statistical validity and reliability of the results for each measured product.
(g) A description of how the sampled data represents the national geographic mail characteristics or behavior of the product.
(h) For each product that does not meet a service standard, an explanation of why the service standard is not met, and a plan describing the steps that have or will be taken to ensure that the product meets or exceeds the service standard in the future.
(i) The identification of each product, or component of a product, granted an exception from reporting pursuant to § 3055.3, and a certification that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.
(j) Documentation showing how data reported at a given level of aggregation were derived from data reported at greater levels of disaggregation. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors. Any graphical representation of data provided shall also be accompanied by the underlying data presented in spreadsheet form.
(k) For each product, documentation showing how the reports required by subpart A of this part were derived from the reports required by subpart B of this part. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors.
(l) For each Market Dominant product, the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, during the previous fiscal year, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels. “Actual delivery days” shall include all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays. The report shall include the following information on dispersion around the average:
(1) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +1 day of the applicable service standard;
(2) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +2 days of the applicable service standard; and
(3) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +3 days of the applicable service standard.
(m) A description of each Site-Specific Operating Plan, including operation completion time performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Site-Specific Operating Plan measurement category during the previous fiscal year. Such information shall be at the National level and disaggregated by Division and Region.
(n) A description of the total mail volumes measured and excluded from measurement. Such description shall include:
(1) For each class of Market Dominant products (except Special Services), a report of the reasons that mailpieces were excluded from measurement during the previous fiscal year. The report shall include:
(i) The exclusion reason;
(ii) The exclusion description;
(iii) The number of mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement for the individual exclusion reason; and
(iv) The exclusion reason as a percent of total mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the number of mailpieces excluded from measurement (
i.e.,
provided in paragraph (n)(1)(iii) of this section) divided by the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement across all exclusion reason categories (
i.e.,
the sum of all values provided in paragraph (n)(1)(iii) of this section).
(2) The report described in paragraph (n)(1) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(n)(2)
—Exclusion Reasons Report for Fiscal Year
Exclusion reason
Exclusion description
Number of mailpieces excluded from measurement
Exclusion reason as a percent of total exclusions
(3) For each class of Market Dominant products and for each Market Dominant product (except Special Services), a description of the mail volumes measured and un-measured during the previous fiscal year. The description shall explain in detail any notations regarding the Postal Service's inability to collect any data. Corresponding data shall also be provided for the same period last year (SPLY).
(4) The report described in paragraph (n)(3) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
n
)(4)—Total Mail Measured/Unmeasured Volumes Report for Fiscal Year
Class/product
‸‸
Prior FY
SPLY
‸‸
Prior FY
SPLY
‸‸
Prior FY
SPLY
Total Number of Pieces (RPW-ODIS)
Total Number of Pieces in Measurement
Total Number of Pieces Eligible for Full-Service IMb
Total Number of Full-Service IMb Pieces Included in Measurement
Total Number of Full-Service IMb Pieces Excluded from Measurement
Total Number of Pieces Not in Measurement
% of Pieces in Measurement Compared to Total Pieces
% of Pieces Not in Measurement Compared to Total Pieces
% of Full-Service IMb Pieces in Measurement Compared to Total IMb Full-Service Pieces
% of Full-Service IMb Pieces Not in Measurement Compared to Total IMb Full-Service Pieces
(5) Descriptions of the current methodologies used to verify the accuracy, reliability, and representativeness of service performance data for each service performance measurement system.
[75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 81141, Dec. 15, 2020; 88 FR 10038, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.3
Reporting exceptions.
(a) The Postal Service may petition the Commission to request that a product, or component of a product, be excluded from reporting, provided the Postal Service demonstrates that:
(1) The cost of implementing a measurement system would be prohibitive
in relation to the revenue generated by the product, or component of a product;
(2) The product, or component of a product, defies meaningful measurement; or
(3) The product, or component of a product, is in the form of a negotiated service agreement with substantially all components of the agreement included in the measurement of other products.
(b) The Postal Service shall identify each product or component of a product granted an exception in each report required under subparts A or B of this part, and certify that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.
§ 3055.4
Internal measurement systems.
Service performance measurements obtained from internal measurement systems or hybrid measurement systems (which are defined as systems that rely on both an internal and an external measurement component) shall not be used to comply with any reporting requirement under subparts A or B of this part without prior Commission approval.
§ 3055.5
Changes to measurement systems, service standards, service goals, or reporting methodologies.
The Postal Service shall file notice with the Commission describing all changes to measurement systems, service standards, service goals or reporting methodologies, including the use of proxies for reporting service performance, 30 days prior to planned implementation. The Commission may initiate a proceeding at any time to consider such changes if it appears that the changes might have a material impact on the accuracy, reliability, or utility of the reported measurement, or if the changes might have a material impact on the characteristics of the underlying product.
§ 3055.6
Addition of new market dominant products or changes to existing market dominant products.
Whenever the Postal Service proposes the addition of a new market dominant product or a change to an existing market dominant product, it also shall propose new or revised (as necessary) service performance measurement systems, service standards, service goals, data reporting elements, and data reporting methodologies.
§ 3055.7
[Reserved]
§ 3055.20
First-Class Mail.
(a) For each of the Single-Piece Letters/Postcards, Presorted Letters/Postcards, and Flats products within the First-Class Mail class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by mail subject to the overnight, 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards.
(b) For each of the Outbound Single-Piece First-Class Mail International and Inbound Letter Post products within the First-Class Mail class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by mail subject to the 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards and in the aggregate for all service standards combined.
(c) For each product that does not meet its service goal during the reporting period, report the point impact data for the top ten root causes of on-time service performance failures, at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels, during the previous fiscal year. “Point impact data” means the number of percentage points by which on-time performance decreased due to a specific root cause of failure. Identification and a description of all potential root causes of failure assigned during the previous fiscal year and any changes to the Postal Service's methodology for calculating point impact data shall be included.
[88 FR 10039, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.21
USPS Marketing Mail.
(a) For each product within the USPS Marketing Mail class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place).
(b) For each product within the USPS Marketing Mail class that does
not meet its service goal during the reporting period, report the point impact data for the top ten root causes of on-time service performance failures, at the National level, during the previous fiscal year. “Point impact data” means the number of percentage points by which on-time performance decreased due to a specific root cause of failure. Identification and a description of all potential root causes of failure assigned during the previous fiscal year and any changes to the Postal Service's methodology for calculating point impact data shall be included. This requirement shall not apply to USPS Marketing Mail Every Door Direct Mail or USPS Marketing Mail Destination Delivery Unit Entry Saturation Flats.
[88 FR 10039, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.22
Periodicals.
(a) For each product within the Periodicals class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place).
(b) For each product within the Periodicals class that does not meet its service goal during the reporting period, report the point impact data for the top ten root causes of on-time service performance failures, at the National level, during the previous fiscal year. “Point impact data” means the number of percentage points by which on-time performance decreased due to a specific root cause of failure. Identification and a description of all potential root causes of failure assigned during the previous fiscal year and any changes to the Postal Service's methodology for calculating point impact data shall be included.
[88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.23
Package Services.
(a) For each product within the Package Services class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place).
(b) For each product within the Package Services class that does not meet its service goal during the reporting period, report the point impact data for the top ten root causes of on-time service performance failures, at the National level, during the previous fiscal year. “Point impact data” means the number of percentage points by which on-time performance decreased due to a specific root cause of failure. Identification and a description of all potential root causes of failure assigned during the previous fiscal year and any changes to the Postal Service's methodology for calculating point impact data shall be included.
[88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.24
Special Services.
For each product within the Special Services group, report the percentage of time (rounded to one decimal place) that each product meets or exceeds its service standard.
§ 3055.25
Nonpostal Products.
(a) For each product that is a nonpostal service authorized pursuant to 39 U.S.C. chapter 37, the Postal Service shall report the measure of the quality of service.
(b) If practicable, quantitative measurement (such as on-time service performance) along with identification of the underling metric(s) shall be provided. If quantitative measurement is not practicable, the Postal Service shall so state, explain why it is not practicable, and provide qualitative analysis.
(c) For the Postal Service's program to provide property and nonpostal service to other Government agencies under 39 U.S.C. 3704, the Postal Service shall report the quality of service for the program as a whole.
(d) The effective date of this section is October 1, 2023.
[88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]

# Subpart B—Periodic Reporting of Service Performance Achievements
§ 3055.30
Periodic reporting of service performance achievements.
For each Market Dominant product specified in the Mail Classification Schedule in part 3040, appendix A to subpart A of part 3040 of this chapter, the Postal Service shall file a Quarterly Report with the Commission addressing service performance achievements for the preceding fiscal quarter
(within 40 days of the close of each fiscal quarter, except where otherwise specified by the Commission), except where otherwise specified by the Commission.
[88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.31
Contents of the Quarterly Report of service performance achievements.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section shall be included in the quarterly report of service performance achievements.
(b) The class or group-specific reporting items specified in §§ 3055.45 through 3055.70.
(c) The identification of each product, or component of a product, granted an exception from reporting pursuant to § 3055.3, and a certification that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.
(d) Documentation showing how data reported at a given level of aggregation were derived from data reported at greater levels of disaggregation. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors. Any graphical representation of data provided shall also be accompanied by the underlying data presented in spreadsheet form.
(e) A year-to-date aggregation of each data item provided in each Quarterly Report due for the reported fiscal year, where applicable, including volumes and other weighting factors provided in electronic format, with formulas shown and data links preserved to allow traceability to individual Quarterly Reports.
(f) For each Market Dominant product, the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, during the previous fiscal quarter, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels. “Actual delivery days” shall include all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays. The report shall include the following information on dispersion around the average:
(1) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +1 day of the applicable service standard;
(2) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +2 days of the applicable service standard; and
(3) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +3 days of the applicable service standard.
(g) A description of each Site-Specific Operating Plan, including operation completion time performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Site-Specific Operating Plan measurement category during the previous fiscal quarter. Such information shall be at the National level and disaggregated by Division and Region.
(h) A description of the total mail volumes measured and excluded from measurement. Such description shall include:
(1) For each class of Market Dominant products (except Special Services), a report of the reasons that mailpieces were excluded during the previous fiscal quarter. The report shall include:
(i) The exclusion reason;
(ii) The exclusion reason description;
(iii) The number of mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement for the individual exclusion reason; and
(iv) The exclusion reason as a percent of total mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the number of mailpieces excluded from measurement (
i.e.,
provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section) divided by the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement across all exclusion reason categories
(i.e.,
the sum of all values provided in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section).
(v) The report shall include information for each quarter in the applicable fiscal year.
(2) The report described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
h
)(2)—Exclusion Reasons Report for Fiscal Quarter
Exclusion reason
Exclusion description
Number of mailpieces excluded from measurement
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Exclusion reason as a percent of total exclusions
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
(3) For each class of Market Dominant products and for each Market Dominant product (except Special Services), a description of the mail volumes measured and unmeasured during the previous fiscal quarter. The description shall explain in detail any notations regarding the Postal Service's inability to collect any data. Corresponding data shall also be provided for the same period last year (SPLY). Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.
(4) The report described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
h
)(4)—Total Mail Measured/Unmeasured Volumes Report for Fiscal Quarter
Class/product
‸‸
Prior FQ
SPLY
‸‸
Prior FQ
SPLY
‸‸
Prior FQ
SPLY
Total Number of Pieces (RPW-ODIS)
Total Number of Pieces in Measurements
Total Number of Pieces Eligible for Full-Service IMb
Total Number of Full-Service IMb Pieces Included in Measurement
Total Number of Full-Service IMb Pieces Excluded from Measurement
Total Number of Pieces Not in Measurement
% of Pieces in Measurement Compared to Total Pieces
% of Pieces Not in Measurement Compared to Total Pieces
% of Full-Service IMb Pieces in Measurement Compared to Total IMb Full-Service Pieces
% of Full-Service IMb Pieces Not in Measurement Compared to Total IMb Full-Service Pieces
(i) A report of quarterly third-party audit results of its internal service performance measurement system for Market Dominant products. This report shall include a description of the audit measures used and the audit results specific to inbound and outbound single-piece First-Class Mail International and the Green Card option of the Return Receipt service. For any measure deemed by the auditor to be not achieved or only partially achieved, the Postal Service shall include in its report an explanation of its
plan to achieve said measure in the future. Each report is due within 60 days of the close of each fiscal quarter.
[75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 10040, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.32
Measurement systems using a delivery factor.
For measurements that include a delivery factor, the duration of the delivery factor also shall be presented independent of the total measurement.
§ 3055.45
First-Class Mail.
(a)
Single-Piece Letters/Postcards, Presorted Letters/Postcards, and Flats.
For each of the Single-Piece Letters/Postcards, Presorted Letters/Postcards, and Flats products within the First-Class Mail class, report the:
(1) On-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by mail subject to the overnight, 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels; and
(2) Service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard, disaggregated by mail subject to the overnight, 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels.
(b)
Outbound Single-Piece First-Class Mail International and Inbound Letter Post.
For each of the Outbound Single-Piece First-Class Mail International and Inbound Letter Post products within the First-Class Mail class, report the:
(1) On-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by mail subject to the 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards and in the aggregate for all service standards combined, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels; and
(2) Service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard, disaggregated by mail subject to the overnight, 2-day, 3-day, 4-day, and 5-day service standards, as well as in the aggregate for the 3-to-5-day service standards and in the aggregate for all service standards combined, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels.
[88 FR 10041, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.50
USPS Marketing Mail.
(a) For each product within the USPS Marketing Mail class, report the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by the Destination Entry (2-day), Destination Entry (3-day through 4-day), Destination Entry (5-day through 10-day), End-to-End (3-day through 5-day), End-to-End (6-day through 10-day), and End-to-End (11-day through 22-day) entry mail/service standards, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels.
(b) For each product within the USPS Marketing Mail class, report the service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard, disaggregated by the Destination Entry (2-day), Destination Entry (3-day through 4-day), Destination Entry (5-day through 10-day), End-to-End (3-day through 5-day), End-to-End (6-day through 10-day), and End-to-End (11-day through 22-day) entry mail/service standards, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels.
[88 FR 10042, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.55
Periodicals.
(a)
In-County Periodicals.
For the In-County Periodicals product within the Periodicals class, report the:
(1) On-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels; and
(2) Service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard,
provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels.
(b)
Outside County Periodicals.
For the Outside County Periodicals product within the Periodicals class, report the:
(1) On-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by the Destination Entry and End-to-End entry mail, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels; and
(2) Service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard, disaggregated by the Destination Entry and End-to-End entry mail, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels.
[75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 10042, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.60
Package Services.
(a) For each product within the Package Services class, report the-on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by the Destination Entry and End-to-End entry mail, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels.
(b) For each product within the Package Services class, report the service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for mail delivered within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of its applicable service standard, disaggregated by the Destination Entry and End-to-End entry mail, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels.
[88 FR 10042, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.65
Special Services.
(a) For each product within the Special Services group, report the percentage of time (rounded to one decimal place) that each product meets or exceeds its service standard, provided at the National level.
(b)
Additional reporting for Ancillary Services.
For the Certified Mail, electronic Return Receipt, Delivery Confirmation, Insurance, and an aggregation of all other services within the Ancillary Services product, individually report the percentage of time (rounded to one decimal place) that each service meets or exceeds its service standard. For green card Return Receipt report:
(1) The percentage of green cards properly completed and returned;
(2) The percentage of green cards not properly completed, but returned;
(3) The percentage of mailpieces returned without a green card signature; and
(4) The percentage of the time the service meets or exceeds its overall service standard.
(c)
Additional reporting for Post Office Box Service.
For Post Office Box Service, report the percentage of time (rounded to one decimal place) that the product meets or exceeds its service standard, provided at the District and Postal Administrative Area levels.
(d)
Additional reporting for Stamp Fulfillment Service.
For Stamp Fulfillment Service, report:
(1) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place), disaggregated by customer order entry method; and
(2) The service variance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for orders fulfilled within +1 day, +2 days, and +3 days of their applicable service standard, disaggregated by customer order entry method.
[75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 70656, Nov. 15, 2011; 88 FR 10042, Feb. 16, 2023]
§ 3055.70
Nonpostal products. [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reporting of Customer Satisfaction
§ 3055.90
Reporting of customer satisfaction.
For each market dominant product specified in the Mail Classification Schedule in part 3040, appendix A to subpart A of part 3040 of this chapter, the Postal Service shall file a report as part of the section 3652 report, unless a more frequent filing is specifically indicated, addressing customer satisfaction achievements for the preceding fiscal year. The report shall include, at
a minimum, the specific reporting requirements presented in §§ 3055.91 through 3055.92.
[85 FR 9659, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3055.91
Consumer access to postal services.
(a) The following information pertaining to post offices shall be reported, disaggregated by type of post office facility, and provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels:
(1) The number of post offices at the beginning of the reported fiscal year;
(2) The number of post offices at the end of the reported fiscal year;
(3) The number of post office closings in the reported fiscal year;
(4) The number of post office emergency suspensions in effect at the beginning of the reported fiscal year;
(5) The number of post office emergency suspensions in the reported fiscal year; and
(6) The number of post office emergency suspensions in effect at the end of the reported fiscal year.
(b) The following information pertaining to delivery points shall be reported, disaggregated by delivery point type, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels:
(1) The number of residential delivery points at the beginning of the reported fiscal year;
(2) The number of residential delivery points at the end of the reported fiscal year;
(3) The number of business delivery points at the beginning of the reported fiscal year; and
(4) The number of business delivery points at the end of the reported fiscal year.
(c) The following information pertaining to collection boxes shall be reported, provided at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels:
(1) The number of collection boxes at the beginning of the reported fiscal year;
(2) The number of collection boxes at the end of the reported fiscal year;
(3) The number of collection boxes removed during the reported fiscal year; and
(4) The number of collection boxes added to new locations during the reported fiscal year.
(d) The average customer wait time in line for retail service shall be reported. Data shall be provided for the beginning of the reported fiscal year and for the close of each successive fiscal quarter at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels.
§ 3055.92
Customer Experience Measurement Surveys.
(a) The report shall include a copy of each type of Customer Experience Measurement instrument, or any similar instrument that may supersede the Customer Experience Measurement instrument used in the preceding fiscal year.
(b) The report shall include information obtained from each type of Customer Experience Measurement instrument, or any similar instrument that may supersede the Customer Experience Measurement instrument including:
(1) A description of the customer type targeted by the survey;
(2) The number of surveys initiated and the number of surveys received; and
(3) Where the question asked is subject to a multiple choice response, the number of responses received for each question, disaggregated by each of the possible responses.

# Subpart D—Public Performance Dashboard

# Source:
88 FR 10042, Feb. 16, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3055.100
Definitions applicable to this subpart.
(a)
Actual delivery days
refers to all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays.
(b)
Election mail
refers to items such as ballots, voter registration cards, and absentee applications that an authorized election official creates for voters.
(c)
Nonprofit mail
refers to USPS Marketing Mail mailpieces that qualify for reduced rates pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3626(a)(6) and the regulations promulgated thereunder and Periodicals
mailpieces that qualify for reduced rates pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3626(a)(4) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(d)
Political mail
refers to any mailpiece sent for political campaign purposes by a registered candidate, a campaign committee, or a committee of a political party to promote candidates, referendums, or campaigns.
§ 3055.101
Public Performance Dashboard.
The Postal Service shall develop and maintain a publicly available website with an interactive web-tool that provides performance information for Market Dominant products. This website shall be updated on a weekly basis, no later than one month from the date of data collection. The website shall include, at a minimum, the reporting requirements specified in § 3055.102 and adhere to the formatting requirements specified in § 3055.103.
§ 3055.102
Contents of the Public Performance Dashboard.
(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (p) of this section shall be included in the Public Performance Dashboard.
(b) Within each class of Market Dominant products, for each Market Dominant product and each service standard applicable to each Market Dominant product:
(1) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District.
(c) Within each class of Market Dominant products, for each Market Dominant product and each applicable service standard:
(1) The average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for the Nation;
(2) The average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for each District.
(d) Within each class of Market Dominant products, for each Market Dominant product and each applicable service standard:
(1) the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for any given time period that can be selected by a Dashboard user within the previous two fiscal years (but no earlier than FY 2021 for National data and FY 2022 for Area- and District data); and
(2) the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for any given time period that can selected by the Dashboard user within the previous two fiscal years (but no earlier than FY 2021 for National data and FY 2022 for Area- and District data).
(e) Within each class of Market Dominant products, for each Market Dominant product and each applicable service standard:
(1) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for any given pair of origin/destination Districts that can be selected by a Dashboard user; and
(2) The average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for any given pair of origin/destination Districts to be selected by the Dashboard user.
(f) For identifiable Political mail:
(1) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District.
(g) For identifiable Election mail:
(1) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District.
(h) For the First-Class Mail that the Postal Service identifies as Single-Piece Reply Mail:
(1) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area;
(3) The on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District;
(4) The average time in which the mailpieces were delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for the Nation;
(5) The average time in which the mailpieces were delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(6) The average time in which the mailpieces were delivered, measured by actual delivery days, for each District.
(i) For identifiable Nonprofit mail (within Periodicals and USPS Marketing Mail classes of mail):
(1) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District.
(j) For identifiable Nonprofit mail (within the Periodicals and USPS Marketing Mail classes of mail) that does not also qualify as Political Mail or Election Mail:
(1) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for the Nation;
(2) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Postal Administrative Area; and
(3) The processing scores for service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each District
(k) The point impact data for the top ten root causes of on-time service performance failures, at the Postal Administrative Area and National levels. “Point impact data” means the number of percentage points by which on-time performance decreased due to a specific root cause of failure. Identification and a description of all potential root causes of failure assigned during the previous fiscal year and any changes to the Postal Service's methodology for calculating point impact data shall be included.
(l) For each Market Dominant product and applicable service standard, the on-time service performance target currently in effect, as well as the on-time service performance target for the previous fiscal year.
(m) A summary of the methodology used to group 5-Digit ZIP Codes into the Postal Administrative Areas and Districts with links to more detailed explanations if applicable.
(n) An application that would allow a Dashboard user to initiate a query in order to access, for each Market Dominant product and applicable service standard, the on-time service performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) and average time in which a mailpiece is delivered for a District by inputting the user's street address, 5-Digit ZIP Code, or post office box.
(o) Supporting documentation underlying the results presented in the Dashboard, including:
(1) Data sources for each service performance parameter presented in the Dashboard, as well as links to each such source;
(2) Explanations of how the information in the data sources are transformed and summarized for presentation on the Dashboard; and
(3) Exceptions and detailed explanations for each exception, such as missing service performance data for a specific product or geographic division.
(p) The items in paragraphs (b) through (o) shall be included within the following periods of time.
(1) Within 60 days after the effective date of this section, the Dashboard shall include the required data for each Market Dominant product;
(2) Within 150 days after the effective date of this section, the Dashboard shall include the required data for each Market Dominant class;
(3) Within 210 days after the effective date of this section, the Dashboard shall include the required data for each service standard, for identifiable Nonprofit Mail, and for the First-Class
Mail that the Postal Service identifies as Single-Piece Reply Mail; and
(4) Within 300 days after the effective date of this section, the Dashboard shall include all other data required by this section.
§ 3055.103
Format for data provided in the Public Performance Dashboard.
(a) The results of a user-initiated query and the data underlying the query results should be exportable via a machine-readable format. Such data should be made accessible to any person or entity utilizing tools and methods designed to facilitate access to and extraction of data in bulk, such as an Application Programming Interface (API).
(b) When there is a negative deviation from service performance standards, the Dashboard should clearly indicate such deviation from expected performance and present the service performance from the prior week and the same period last year.
Pt. 3060

# PART 3060—ACCOUNTING PRACTICES AND TAX RULES FOR THE THEORETICAL COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS ENTERPRISE
Sec.
3060.1
Scope.
3060.10
Costing.
3060.11
Valuation of assets.
3060.12
Asset allocation.
3060.13
Valuation of liabilities.
3060.14
Competitive products enterprise statement of allocated assets and liabilities.
3060.20
Reports.
3060.21
Income report.
3060.22
Financial status report.
3060.23
Identified property and equipment assets report.
3060.24
Competitive products fund report.
3060.30
Statement of allocated assets and liabilities for competitive products.
3060.31
Initial filing.
3060.40
Calculation of the assumed Federal income tax.
3060.41
Supporting documentation.
3060.42
Commission review.
3060.43
Annual transfer from competitive products fund to Postal Service fund.

# Authority:
39 U.S.C. 503, 2011, 3633, 3634.

# Source:
73 FR 79261, Dec. 24, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3060.1
Scope.
The rules in this part are applicable to the Postal Service's theoretical competitive products enterprise developed pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2011 and 3634 and to the Postal Service's obligation to calculate annually an assumed Federal income tax on competitive products income and transfer annually any such assumed Federal income tax due from the Competitive Products Fund to the Postal Service Fund.
§ 3060.10
Costing.
(a) The assumed taxable income from competitive products for the Postal Service's theoretical competitive products enterprise for a fiscal year shall be based on total revenues generated by competitive products during that year less the costs identified in paragraph (b) of this section calculated using the methodology most recently approved by the Commission.
(b) The net income for the Postal Service's theoretical competitive products enterprise shall reflect the following costs:
(1) Attributable costs, including volume-variable costs, product-specific costs, and those inframarginal costs calculated as part of a competitive product's incremental costs; and
(2) The appropriate share of institutional costs assigned to competitive products by the Commission pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3633(a)(3).
[73 FR 79261, Dec. 24, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 88123, Dec. 7, 2016]
§ 3060.11
Valuation of assets.
For the purposes of 39 U.S.C. 2011, the total assets of the Postal Service theoretical competitive products enterprise are the greater of:
(a) The percentage of total Postal Service revenues and receipts from competitive products times the total net assets of the Postal Service, or
(b) The net assets related to the provision of competitive products as determined pursuant to § 3060.12.
§ 3060.12
Asset allocation.
Within 6 months of January 23, 2009, and for each fiscal year thereafter, the
Postal Service will develop the net assets of the theoretical competitive products enterprise as follows:
(a) Identify all asset accounts within the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts used solely for the provision of competitive products.
(b) Identify all asset accounts within the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts used solely for the provision of market dominant products.
(c) The portion of asset accounts in the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts that are not identified in either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section shall be assigned to the Postal Service theoretical competitive products enterprise using a method of allocation based on appropriate revenue or cost drivers approved by the Commission.
(d) Within 6 months of January 23, 2009, the Postal Service shall submit to the Commission for approval a proposed methodology detailing how each asset account identified in the Chart of Accounts shall be allocated to the theoretical competitive products enterprise and provide an explanation in support of each allocation.
(e) If the Postal Service desires to change the methodologies outlined above, it shall utilize the procedures provided in § 3050.11 of this chapter.
§ 3060.13
Valuation of liabilities.
Within 6 months of January 23, 2009, and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Postal Service will develop the liabilities of the theoretical competitive products enterprise as follows:
(a) Identify all liability accounts within the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts used solely for the provision of competitive products.
(b) Identify all liability accounts within the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts used solely for the provision of market dominant products.
(c) The portion of liability accounts in the Postal Service's Chart of Accounts that are not identified in either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section shall be assigned to the theoretical competitive products enterprise using a method of allocation based on appropriate revenue or cost drivers approved by the Commission.
(d) Within 6 months of the effective date of these rules, the Postal Service shall submit to the Commission for approval a proposed methodology detailing how each liability account identified in the Chart of Accounts shall be allocated to the theoretical competitive products enterprise and provide an explanation in support of each allocation.
(e) If the Postal Service desires to change the methodologies outlined above, it shall utilize the procedures provided in § 3050.11 of this chapter.
§ 3060.14
Competitive products enterprise statement of allocated assets and liabilities.
The Postal Service will report the assets and liabilities of the theoretical competitive products enterprise as computed under §§ 3060.12 and 3060.13 in the format as prescribed under § 3060.30 for each fiscal year starting with FY 2010.
§ 3060.20
Reports.
(a) Beginning with reports for FY 2009, the Postal Service shall file with the Commission each of the reports required by this part by no later than 90 days after the close of each fiscal year. For FY 2008, the Postal Service may file these reports by January 15, 2009, with the exception of the report required by § 3060.24.
(b) Each report shall include workpapers that cite all numbers to primary sources and such other information needed to present complete and accurate financial information concerning the provision of competitive products.
(c) Each report shall utilize the same books of accounts and data collection systems used to produce the report required by part 3050 of this chapter.
(d) Each report shall include summary descriptions of computations used, assumptions made, and other relevant information in the form of notes to the financial statements.
(e) A one-time extension until January 15, 2009, shall be permitted for the submission of the reports due for fiscal year ending September 30, 2008.
(f) The accounting practices used by the Postal Service in the reports filed
for FY 2008, as approved by the Commission, shall be used for all future reports until such time as they may be changed by the Commission. If the Postal Service desires to change such practices, it shall utilize the procedures provided in § 3050.11 of this chapter.
§ 3060.21
Income report.
The Postal Service shall file an Income Report in the form and content of table 1 to § 3060.21.
Table 1 to § 3060.21—Competitive Products Income Statement—PRC Form CP-01
[$ in 000s]
FY 20xx
FY 20xx-1
Change
from
SPLY
Percent
change
from SPLY
Revenue:
$x,xxx
$x,xxx
$xxx
xx.x
(1) Mail and Services Revenues
xxx
xxx
xx
xx.x
(2) Investment Income
x,xx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(3) Total Competitive Products Revenue
Expenses:
x,xxx
(4) Volume-Variable Costs
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(5) Product Specific Costs
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(6) Incremental Inframarginal Costs
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(7) Total Competitive Products Attributable Costs
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(8) Net Contribution Competitive Products Market Tests
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(9) Net Income Before Institutional Cost Contribution
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
(10) Required Institutional Cost Contribution
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
x.x.x
(11) Net Income (Loss) Before Tax
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(12) Assumed Federal Income Tax
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
(13) Net Income (Loss) After Tax
x,xxx
x,xxx
xxx
xx.x
Line (1): Total revenues from Competitive Products volumes and Ancillary Services.
Line (2): Income provided from investment of surplus Competitive Products revenues.
Line (3): Sum total of revenues from Competitive Products volumes, services, and investments.
Line (4): Total Competitive Products volume-variable costs as shown in the Cost and Revenue Analysis (CRA) report.
Line (5): Total Competitive Products product-specific costs as shown in the CRA report.
Line (6): Inframarginal costs calculated as part of total Competitive Products incremental costs as shown in ACR Library Reference “Competitive Product Incremental and Group Specific Costs” (Currently NP10).
Line (7): Sum total of Competitive Products costs (sum of lines 4, 5, and 6).
Line (8): Net Contribution Competitive Products Market Tests as shown in the Annual Compliance Report.
Line (9): Difference between Competitive Products total revenues and attributable costs and Market Tests Contributions (line 3 less line 7 plus line 8).
Line (10): Minimum amount of Institutional cost contribution required under 39 CFR 3035.7 of this chapter.
Line (11): Line 9 less line 10.
Line (12): Total assumed Federal income tax as calculated under 39 CFR 3060.40.
Line (13): Line 11 less line 12.
[85 FR 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]
§ 3060.22
Financial status report.
The Postal Service shall file a Financial Status Report in the form and content of Table 2, below.
Table 2—Annual Summary of Competitive Products Financials—PRC Form CP-02
[$ in 000s]
Beginning value
Change from prior year
Ending value
(1) Cumulative Net Income (Loss) After Assumed Federal Income Tax
(2) Total Financial Obligations (List of Financial Obligations)
(3) Total Financial Investments (List of Financial Investments)
Line 1: Beginning Value: Sum total of Net Income (Loss) as of October 1 of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Change from Prior Year: Amount of Net Income (Loss) of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Ending Value: Sum of Beginning Value and the Change from Prior Year.
Line 2: Beginning Value: Sum total of Financial Obligations as of October 1 of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Change from Prior Year: Amount of Net Financial Obligations of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Ending Value: Sum of Beginning Value and the Change from Prior Year.
Line 3: Beginning Value: Sum total of Financial Investments as of October 1 of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Change from Prior Year: Amount of Net Financial Investments of Reportable Fiscal Year.
Ending Value: Sum of Beginning Value and the Change from Prior Year.
§ 3060.23
Identified property and equipment assets report.
The Postal Service shall file an Identified Property and Equipment Assets Report in the form and content of Table 3, below.
Table 3—Competitive Products Property and Equipment Assets—PRC Form CP-03
[$ in 000s]
Finance No.
Finance
location
Asset
identifier
Asset
