June 17, 2025
Title 40
Protection of Environment
Parts 260 to 265
Revised as of July 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of July 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 40:
Chapter I—Environmental Protection Agency (Continued)
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
891
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
911
List of CFR Sections Affected
921
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
40 CFR 260.1
refers to title 40, part 260, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, July 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
July 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 40—
Protection of Environment
is composed of thirty-seven volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-49, parts 50-51, part 52 (52.01-52.1018), part 52 (52.1019-52.2019), part 52 (52.2020-end of part 52), parts 53-59, part 60 (60.1-60.499), part 60 (60.500-end of part 60, sections), part 60 (Appendices), parts 61-62, part 63 (63.1-63.599), part 63 (63.600-63.1199), part 63 (63.1200-63.1439), part 63 (63.1440-63.6175), part 63 (63.6580-63.8830), part 63 (63.8980-end of part 63), parts 64-71, parts 72-78, parts 79-80, part 81, parts 82-84, parts 85-96, parts 97-99, parts 100-135, parts 136-149, parts 150-189, parts 190-259, parts 260-265, parts 266-299, parts 300-399, parts 400-424, parts 425-699, parts 700-722, parts 723-789, parts 790-999, parts 1000-1059, and part 1060 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of July 1, 2025.
Chapter I—Environmental Protection Agency appears in all thirty-seven volumes. OMB control numbers for title 40 appear in § 9.1 of this chapter.
Chapters IV-IX—Regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice, Council on Environmental Quality, Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces, Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, and the Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council appear in volume thirty-seven.
For this volume, Michele Bugenhagen was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
40 CFR Ch. I (7-1-25 Edition)
Environmental Protection Agency

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
(This book contains parts 260 to 265)
Part
chapter i
—Environmental Protection Agency (Continued)
260

# CHAPTER I—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (CONTINUED)

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter I appear at 65 FR 47324, 47325, Aug. 2, 2000, and 66 FR 34375, 34376, June 28, 2001.

# SUBCHAPTER I—SOLID WASTES (CONTINUED)
Part
Page
260
Hazardous waste management system: General
5
261
Identification and listing of hazardous waste
33
262
Standards applicable to generators of hazardous waste
353
263
Standards applicable to transporters of hazardous waste
421
264
Standards for owners and operators of hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities
429
265
Interim status standards for owners and operators of hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities
685

# SUBCHAPTER I—SOLID WASTES (CONTINUED)
Pt. 260

# PART 260—HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: GENERAL

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
260.1
Purpose, scope, and applicability.
260.2
Availability of information; confidentiality of information.
260.3
Use of number and gender.
260.4
Manifest copy submission requirements for certain interstate waste shipments.
260.5
Applicability of electronic manifest system and user fee requirements to facilities receiving state-only regulated waste shipments.

# Subpart B—Definitions
260.10
Definitions.
260.11
Incorporation by reference.

# Subpart C—Rulemaking Petitions
260.20
General.
260.21
Petitions for equivalent testing or analytical methods.
260.22
Petitions to amend part 261 to exclude a waste produced at a particular facility.
260.23
Petitions to amend 40 CFR part 273 to include additional hazardous wastes.
260.30
Non-waste determinations and variances from classification as a solid waste.
260.31
Standards and criteria for variances from classification as a solid waste.
260.32
Variances to be classified as a boiler.
260.33
Procedures for variances from classification as a solid waste, for variances to be classified as a boiler, or for non-waste determinations.
260.34
Standards and criteria for non-waste determinations.
260.40
Additional regulation of certain hazardous waste recycling activities on a case-by-case basis.
260.41
Procedures for case-by-case regulation of hazardous waste recycling activities.
260.42
Notification requirement for hazardous secondary materials.
260.43
Legitimate recycling of hazardous secondary materials.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912(a), 6921-6927, 6930, 6934, 6935, 6937, 6938, 6939, 6939g, and 6974.

# Source:
45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 260.1
Purpose, scope, and applicability.
(a) This part provides definitions of terms, general standards, and overview information applicable to parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.
(b) In this part: (1) Section 260.2 sets forth the rules that EPA will use in making information it receives available to the public and sets forth the requirements that generators, transporters, or owners or operators of treatment, storage, or disposal facilities must follow to assert claims of business confidentiality with respect to information that is submitted to EPA under parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.
(2) Section 260.3 establishes rules of grammatical construction for parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.
(3) Section 260.10 defines terms which are used in parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.
(4) Section 260.20 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to amend, modify, or revoke any provision of parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter and establishes procedures governing EPA's action on such petitions.
(5) Section 260.21 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to approve testing methods as equivalent to those prescribed in parts 261, 264, or 265 of this chapter.
(6) Section 260.22 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to amend subpart D of part 261 to exclude a waste from a particular facility.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986]
§ 260.2
Availability of information; confidentiality of information.
(a) Any information provided to EPA under parts 260 through 266 and 268 of this chapter will be made available to the public to the extent and in the manner authorized by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. section 552, section 3007(b) of RCRA and EPA regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act and section 3007(b),
and part 2 of this chapter, as applicable.
(b) Except as provided under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, any person who submits information to EPA in accordance with parts 260 through 266 and 268 of this chapter may assert a claim of business confidentiality covering part or all of that information by following the procedures set forth in § 2.203(b) of this chapter. Information covered by such a claim will be disclosed by EPA only to the extent, and by means of the procedures, set forth in part 2, subpart B, of this chapter.
(c)(1) After August 6, 2014, no claim of business confidentiality may be asserted by any person with respect to information entered on a Hazardous Waste Manifest (EPA Form 8700-22), a Hazardous Waste Manifest Continuation Sheet (EPA Form 8700-22A), or an electronic manifest format that may be prepared and used in accordance with § 262.20(a)(3) of this chapter.
(2) EPA will make any electronic manifest that is prepared and used in accordance with § 262.20(a)(3), or any paper manifest that is submitted to the system under §§ 264.71(a)(6) or 265.71(a)(6) of this chapter available to the public under this section when the electronic or paper manifest is a complete and final document. Electronic manifests and paper manifests submitted to the system are considered by EPA to be complete and final documents and publicly available information after 90 days have passed since the delivery to the designated facility of the hazardous waste shipment identified in the manifest.
(d)(1) After June 26, 2018, no claim of business confidentiality may be asserted by any person with respect to information contained in cathode ray tube export documents prepared, used and submitted under §§ 261.39(a)(5) and 261.41(a) of this chapter, and with respect to information contained in hazardous waste export, import, and transit documents prepared, used and submitted under §§ 262.82, 262.83, 262.84, 263.20, 264.12, 264.71, 265.12, 265.71, and 267.71 of this chapter, whether submitted electronically into EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System or in paper format. After January 22, 2025, no claim of business confidentiality may be asserted by any person with respect to information contained in hazardous secondary material export documents prepared, used and submitted under § 261.4(a)(25) of this chapter, whether submitted electronically into the EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System or in paper format.
(2) EPA will make any cathode ray tube export documents prepared, used and submitted under §§ 261.39(a)(5) and 261.41(a) of this chapter, and any hazardous waste export, import, and transit documents prepared, used and submitted under §§ 262.82, 262.83, 262.84, 263.20, 264.12, 264.71, 265.12, 265.71, and 267.71 of this chapter available to the public under this section when these electronic or paper documents are considered by EPA to be final documents. These submitted electronic and paper documents related to hazardous waste exports, imports and transits and cathode ray tube exports are considered by EPA to be final documents on March 1 of the calendar year after the related cathode ray tube exports or hazardous waste exports, imports, or transits occur. After January 22, 2025, the EPA will make available to the public under this section any hazardous secondary material export documents prepared, used and submitted under § 261.4(a)(25) of this chapter on March 1 of the calendar year after the related hazardous secondary material exports occur, when these documents are considered by the EPA to be final documents.
[79 FR 7557, Feb. 7, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 60900, Dec. 26, 2017; 89 FR 60724, July 26, 2024]
§ 260.3
Use of number and gender.
As used in parts 260 through 273 of this chapter:
(a) Words in the masculine gender also include the feminine and neuter genders; and
(b) Words in the singular include the plural; and
(c) Words in the plural include the singular.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986; 81 FR 85805, Nov. 28, 2016]
§ 260.4
Manifest copy submission requirements for certain interstate waste shipments.
(a) In any case in which the state in which waste is generated, or the state in which waste will be transported to a designated facility, requires that the waste be regulated as a hazardous waste or otherwise be tracked through a hazardous waste manifest, the designated facility that receives the waste shall, regardless of the state in which the facility is located:
(1) Complete the facility portion of the applicable manifest;
(2) Sign and date the facility certification;
(3) Submit to the e-Manifest system a final copy of the manifest for data processing purposes; and
(4) Pay the appropriate per manifest fee to EPA for each manifest submitted to the e-Manifest system, subject to the fee determination methodology, payment methods, dispute procedures, sanctions, and other fee requirements specified in subpart FF of part 264 of this chapter.
[83 FR 451, Jan. 3, 2018]
§ 260.5
Applicability of electronic manifest system and user fee requirements to facilities receiving state-only regulated waste shipments.
(a) For purposes of this section, “state-only regulated waste” means:
(1) A non-RCRA waste that a state regulates more broadly under its state regulatory program, or
(2) A RCRA hazardous waste that is federally exempt from manifest requirements, but not exempt from manifest requirements under state law.
(b) In any case in which a state requires a RCRA manifest to be used under state law to track the shipment and transportation of a state-only regulated waste to a receiving facility, the facility receiving such a waste shipment for management shall:
(1) Comply with the provisions of §§ 264.71 (use of the manifest) and 264.72 (manifest discrepancies) of this chapter; and
(2) Pay the appropriate per manifest fee to EPA for each manifest submitted to the e-Manifest system, subject to the fee determination methodology, payment methods, dispute procedures, sanctions, and other fee requirements specified in subpart FF of part 264 of this chapter.
[83 FR 451, Jan. 3, 2018]

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 260.10
Definitions.
When used in parts 260 through 273 of this chapter, the following terms have the meanings given below:
Above ground tank
means a device meeting the definition of “tank” in § 260.10 and that is situated in such a way that the entire surface area of the tank is completely above the plane of the adjacent surrounding surface and the entire surface area of the tank (including the tank bottom) is able to be visually inspected.
Act
or
RCRA
means the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 6901
et seq.
Active life
of a facility means the period from the initial receipt of hazardous waste at the facility until the Regional Administrator receives certification of final closure.
Active portion
means that portion of a facility where treatment, storage, or disposal operations are being or have been conducted after the effective date of part 261 of this chapter and which is not a closed portion. (See also “closed portion” and “inactive portion”.)
Acute hazardous waste
means hazardous wastes that meet the listing criteria in § 261.11(a)(2) and therefore are either listed in § 261.31 of this chapter with the assigned hazard code of (H) or are listed in § 261.33(e) of this chapter.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, or his designee.
Aerosol can
means a non-refillable receptacle containing a gas compressed, liquefied, or dissolved under pressure, the sole purpose of which is to expel a liquid, paste, or powder and fitted with a self-closing release device allowing the contents to be ejected by the gas.
AES filing compliance date
means the date that EPA announces in the
Federal Register,
on or after which exporters of hazardous waste and exporters of cathode ray tubes for recycling are required to file EPA information in the Automated Export System or its successor system, under the International Trade Data System (ITDS) platform.
Airbag waste
means any hazardous waste airbag modules or hazardous waste airbag inflators.
Airbag waste collection facility
means any facility that receives airbag waste from airbag handlers subject to regulation under § 261.4(j) of this chapter, and accumulates the waste for more than ten days.
Airbag waste handler
means any person, by site, who generates airbag waste that is subject to regulation under this chapter.
Ancillary equipment
means any device including, but not limited to, such ­devices as piping, fittings, flanges, valves, and pumps, that is used to distribute, meter, or control the flow of hazardous waste from its point of generation to a storage or treatment tank(s), between hazardous waste storage and treatment tanks to a point of disposal onsite, or to a point of shipment for disposal off-site.
Aquifer
means a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation capable of yielding a significant amount of ground water to wells or springs.
Authorized representative
means the person responsible for the overall operation of a facility or an operational unit (i.e., part of a facility), e.g., the plant manager, superintendent or person of equivalent responsibility.
Battery
means a device consisting of one or more electrically connected electrochemical cells which is designed to receive, store, and deliver electric energy. An electrochemical cell is a system consisting of an anode, cathode, and an electrolyte, plus such connections (electrical and mechanical) as may be needed to allow the cell to deliver or receive electrical energy. The term battery also includes an intact, unbroken battery from which the electrolyte has been removed.
Boiler
means an enclosed device using controlled flame combustion and having the following characteristics:
(1)(i) The unit must have physical provisions for recovering and exporting thermal energy in the form of steam, heated fluids, or heated gases; and
(ii) The unit's combustion chamber and primary energy recovery sections(s) must be of integral design. To be of integral design, the combustion chamber and the primary energy recovery section(s) (such as waterwalls and superheaters) must be physically formed into one manufactured or assembled unit. A unit in which the combustion chamber and the primary energy recovery section(s) are joined only by ducts or connections carrying flue gas is not integrally designed; however, secondary energy recovery equipment (such as economizers or air preheaters) need not be physically formed into the same unit as the combustion chamber and the primary energy recovery section. The following units are not precluded from being boilers solely because they are not of integral design: process heaters (units that transfer energy directly to a process stream), and fluidized bed combustion units; and
(iii) While in operation, the unit must maintain a thermal energy recovery efficiency of at least 60 percent, calculated in terms of the recovered energy compared with the thermal value of the fuel; and
(iv) The unit must export and utilize at least 75 percent of the recovered energy, calculated on an annual basis. In this calculation, no credit shall be given for recovered heat used internally in the same unit. (Examples of internal use are the preheating of fuel or combustion air, and the driving of induced or forced draft fans or feedwater pumps); or
(2) The unit is one which the Regional Administrator has determined, on a case-by-case basis, to be a boiler, after considering the standards in § 260.32.
Carbon dioxide stream
means carbon dioxide that has been captured from an emission source (e.g., power plant), plus incidental associated substances derived from the source materials and
the capture process, and any substances added to the stream to enable or improve the injection process.
Carbon regeneration unit
means any enclosed thermal treatment device used to regenerate spent activated carbon.
Cathode ray tube or CRT
means a vacuum tube, composed primarily of glass, which is the visual or video display component of an electronic device. A used, intact CRT means a CRT whose vacuum has not been released. A used, broken CRT means glass removed from its housing or casing whose vacuum has been released.
Central accumulation area
means any on-site hazardous waste accumulation area with hazardous waste accumulating in units subject to either § 262.16 (for small quantity generators) or § 262.17 of this chapter (for large quantity generators). A central accumulation area at an eligible academic entity that chooses to operate under 40 CFR part 262 subpart K is also subject to § 262.211 when accumulating unwanted material and/or hazardous waste.
Certification
means a statement of professional opinion based upon knowledge and belief.
Closed portion
means that portion of a facility which an owner or operator has closed in accordance with the approved facility closure plan and all applicable closure requirements. (See also “active portion” and “inactive portion”.)
Component
means either the tank or ancillary equipment of a tank system.
Confined aquifer
means an aquifer bounded above and below by impermeable beds or by beds of distinctly lower permeability than that of the aquifer itself; an aquifer containing confined ground water.
Contained
means held in a unit (including a land-based unit as defined in this subpart) that meets the following criteria:
(1) The unit is in good condition, with no leaks or other continuing or intermittent unpermitted releases of the hazardous secondary materials to the environment, and is designed, as appropriate for the hazardous secondary materials, to prevent releases of hazardous secondary materials to the environment. Unpermitted releases are releases that are not covered by a permit (such as a permit to discharge to water or air) and may include, but are not limited to, releases through surface transport by precipitation runoff, releases to soil and groundwater, wind-blown dust, fugitive air emissions, and catastrophic unit failures;
(2) The unit is properly labeled or otherwise has a system (such as a log) to immediately identify the hazardous secondary materials in the unit; and
(3) The unit holds hazardous secondary materials that are compatible with other hazardous secondary materials placed in the unit and is compatible with the materials used to construct the unit and addresses any potential risks of fires or explosions.
(4) Hazardous secondary materials in units that meet the applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 264 or 265 are presumptively contained.
Container
means any portable device in which a material is stored, transported, treated, disposed of, or otherwise handled.
Containment building
means a hazardous waste management unit that is used to store or treat hazardous waste under the provisions of subpart DD of parts 264 or 265 of this chapter.
Contingency plan
means a document setting out an organized, planned, and coordinated course of action to be followed in case of a fire, explosion, or release of hazardous waste or hazardous waste constituents which could threaten human health or the environment.
Corrosion expert
means a person who, by reason of his knowledge of the physical sciences and the principles of engineering and mathematics, acquired by a professional education and related practical experience, is qualified to engage in the practice of corrosion control on buried or submerged metal piping systems and metal tanks. Such a person must be certified as being qualified by the National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) or be a registered professional engineer who has certification or licensing that includes education and experience in corrosion control on buried or submerged metal piping systems and metal tanks.
CRT collector
means a person who receives used, intact CRTs for recycling, repair, resale, or donation.
CRT exporter
means any person in the United States who initiates a transaction to send used CRTs outside the United States or its territories for recycling or reuse, or any intermediary in the United States arranging for such export.
CRT glass manufacturer
means an operation or part of an operation that uses a furnace to manufacture CRT glass.
CRT processing
means conducting all of the following activities:
(1) Receiving broken or intact CRTs; and
(2) Intentionally breaking intact CRTs or further breaking or separating broken CRTs; and
(3) Sorting or otherwise managing glass removed from CRT monitors.
Designated facility
means:
(1) A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility which:
(i) Has received a permit (or interim status) in accordance with the requirements of parts 270 and 124 of this chapter;
(ii) Has received a permit (or interim status) from a State authorized in accordance with part 271 of this chapter; or
(iii) Is regulated under § 261.6(c)(2) or subpart F of part 266 of this chapter; and
(iv) That has been designated on the manifest by the generator pursuant to § 262.20.
(2)
Designated facility
also means a generator site designated on the manifest to receive its waste as a return shipment from a facility that has rejected the waste in accordance with § 264.72(f) or § 265.72(f) of this chapter.
(3) If a waste is destined to a facility in an authorized State which has not yet obtained authorization to regulate that particular waste as hazardous, then the designated facility must be a facility allowed by the receiving State to accept such waste.
Destination facility
means a facility that treats, disposes of, or recycles a particular category of universal waste, except those management activities described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of §§ 273.13 and 273.33 of this chapter. A facility at which a particular category of universal waste is only accumulated, is not a destination facility for purposes of managing that category of universal waste.
Dike
means an embankment or ridge of either natural or man-made materials used to prevent the movement of liquids, sludges, solids, or other materials.
Dioxins and furans (D/F)
means tetra, penta, hexa, hepta, and octa-chlorinated dibenzo dioxins and furans.
Discharge
or
hazardous waste discharge
means the accidental or intentional spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping of hazardous waste into or on any land or water.
Disposal
means the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that such solid waste or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground waters.
Disposal facility
means a facility or part of a facility at which hazardous waste is intentionally placed into or on any land or water, and at which waste will remain after closure. The term disposal facility does not include a corrective action management unit into which remediation wastes are placed.
Drip pad
is an engineered structure consisting of a curbed, free-draining base, constructed of non-earthen materials and designed to convey preservative kick-back or drippage from treated wood, precipitation, and surface water run-on to an associated collection system at wood preserving plants.
Electronic import-export reporting compliance date
means the date that EPA announces in the
Federal Register,
on or after which exporters, importers, and receiving facilities are required to submit certain export and import related documents to EPA using EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System, or its successor system.
Electronic manifest
(or e-Manifest) means the electronic format of the hazardous waste manifest that is obtained from EPA's national e-Manifest system and transmitted electronically to the system, and that is the legal equivalent of EPA Forms 8700-22 (Manifest) and 8700-22A (Continuation Sheet).
Electronic Manifest System (or e-Manifest System)
means EPA's national information technology system through which the electronic manifest may be obtained, completed, transmitted, and distributed to users of the electronic manifest and to regulatory agencies.
Elementary neutralization unit
means a device which:
(1) Is used for neutralizing wastes that are hazardous only because they exhibit the corrosivity characteristic defined in § 261.22 of this chapter, or they are listed in subpart D of part 261 of the chapter only for this reason; and
(2) Meets the definition of tank, tank system, container, transport vehicle, or vessel in § 260.10 of this chapter.
EPA hazardous waste number
means the number assigned by EPA to each hazardous waste listed in part 261, subpart D, of this chapter and to each characteristic identified in part 261, subpart C, of this chapter.
EPA identification number
means the number assigned by EPA to each generator, transporter, and treatment, storage, or disposal facility.
EPA region
means the states and territories found in any one of the following ten regions:
Region I—Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island.
Region II—New York, New Jersey, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Region III—Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
Region IV—Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida.
Region V—Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Indiana and Ohio.
Region VI—New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas.
Region VII—Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, and Iowa.
Region VIII—Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Colorado.
Region IX—California, Nevada, Arizona, Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Region X—Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Alaska.
Equivalent method
means any testing or analytical method approved by the Administrator under §§ 260.20 and 260.21.
Existing hazardous waste management (HWM) facility
or
existing facility
means a facility which was in operation or for which construction commenced on or before November 19, 1980. A facility has commenced construction if:
(1) The owner or operator has obtained the Federal, State and local approvals or permits necessary to begin physical construction; and either
(2)(i) A continuous on-site, physical construction program has begun; or
(ii) The owner or operator has entered into contractual obligations—which cannot be cancelled or modified without substantial loss—for physical construction of the facility to be completed within a reasonable time.
Existing portion
means that land surface area of an existing waste management unit, included in the original Part A permit application, on which wastes have been placed prior to the issuance of a permit.
Existing tank system
or
existing component
means a tank system or component that is used for the storage or treatment of hazardous waste and that is in operation, or for which installation has commenced on or prior to July 14, 1986. Installation will be considered to have commenced if the owner or operator has obtained all Federal, State, and local approvals or permits necessary to begin physical construction of the site or installation of the tank system and if either (1) a continuous on-site physical construction or installation program has begun, or (2) the owner or operator has entered into contractual obligations—which cannot be canceled or modified without substantial loss—for physical construction of the site or installation of the tank system to be completed within a reasonable time.
Explosives or munitions emergency
means a situation involving the suspected or detected presence of unexploded ordnance (UXO), damaged or deteriorated explosives or munitions, an improvised explosive device (IED), other potentially explosive material or device, or other potentially harmful military chemical munitions or device, that creates an actual or potential imminent threat to human health, including safety, or the environment, including property, as determined by an explosives or munitions emergency response specialist. Such situations may require immediate and
expeditious action by an explosives or munitions emergency response specialist to control, mitigate, or eliminate the threat.
Explosives or munitions emergency response
means all immediate response activities by an explosives and munitions emergency response specialist to control, mitigate, or eliminate the actual or potential threat encountered during an explosives or munitions emergency. An explosives or munitions emergency response may include in-place render-safe procedures, treatment or destruction of the explosives or munitions and/or transporting those items to another location to be rendered safe, treated, or destroyed. Any reasonable delay in the completion of an explosives or munitions emergency response caused by a necessary, unforeseen, or uncontrollable circumstance will not terminate the explosives or munitions emergency. Explosives and munitions emergency responses can occur on either public or private lands and are not limited to responses at RCRA facilities.
Explosives or munitions emergency response specialist
means an individual trained in chemical or conventional munitions or explosives handling, transportation, render-safe procedures, or destruction techniques. Explosives or munitions emergency response specialists include Department of Defense (DOD) emergency explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), technical escort unit (TEU), and DOD-certified civilian or contractor personnel; and other Federal, State, or local government, or civilian personnel similarly trained in explosives or munitions emergency responses.
Facility
means:
(1) All contiguous land, and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the land, used for treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, or for managing hazardous secondary materials prior to reclamation. A facility may consist of several treatment, storage, or disposal operational units (e.g., one or more landfills, surface impoundments, or combinations of them).
(2) For the purpose of implementing corrective action under 40 CFR 264.101 or 267.101, all contiguous property under the control of the owner or operator seeking a permit under Subtitle C of RCRA. This definition also applies to facilities implementing corrective action under RCRA Section 3008(h).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of this definition, a remediation waste management site is not a facility that is subject to 40 CFR 264.101, but is subject to corrective action requirements if the site is located within such a facility.
Federal agency
means any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government, any independent agency or establishment of ­­the Federal Government including any Government corporation, and the Government Printing Office.
Federal, State and local approvals or permits necessary to begin physical construction
means permits and approvals required under Federal, State or local hazardous waste control statutes, regulations or ordinances.
Final closure
means the closure of all hazardous waste management units at the facility in accordance with all applicable closure requirements so that hazardous waste management activities under parts 264 and 265 of this chapter are no longer conducted at the facility unless subject to the provisions in §§ 262.16 and 262.17.
Food-chain crops
means tobacco, crops grown for human consumption, and crops grown for feed for animals whose products are consumed by humans.
Free liquids
means liquids which readily separate from the solid portion of a waste under ambient temperature and pressure.
Freeboard
means the vertical distance between the top of a tank or surface impoundment dike, and the surface of the waste contained therein.
Generator
means any person, by site, whose act or process produces hazardous waste identified or listed in part 261 of this chapter or whose act first causes a hazardous waste to become subject to regulation.
Ground water
means water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
Hazardous secondary material
means a secondary material (e.g., spent material, by-product, or sludge) that, when
discarded, would be identified as hazardous waste under part 261 of this chapter.
Hazardous secondary material generator
means any person whose act or process produces hazardous secondary materials at the generating facility. For purposes of this paragraph, “generating facility” means all contiguous property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the hazardous secondary material generator. For the purposes of § 261.2(a)(2)(ii) and § 261.4(a)(23), a facility that collects hazardous secondary materials from other persons is not the hazardous secondary material generator.
Hazardous waste
means a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 of this chapter.
Hazardous waste constituent
means a constituent that caused the Administrator to list the hazardous waste in part 261, subpart D, of this chapter, or a constituent listed in table 1 of § 261.24 of this chapter.
Hazardous waste management unit
is a contiguous area of land on or in which hazardous waste is placed, or the largest area in which there is significant likelihood of mixing hazardous waste constituents in the same area. Examples of hazardous waste management units include a surface impoundment, a waste pile, a land treatment area, a landfill cell, an incinerator, a tank and its associated piping and underlying containment system and a container storage area. A container alone does not constitute a unit; the unit includes containers and the land or pad upon which they are placed.
In operation
refers to a facility which is treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste.
Inactive portion
means that portion of a facility which is not operated after the effective date of part 261 of this chapter. (See also “active portion” and “closed portion”.)
Incinerator
means any enclosed device that:
(1) Uses controlled flame combustion and neither meets the criteria for classification as a boiler, sludge dryer, or carbon regeneration unit, nor is listed as an industrial furnace; or
(2) Meets the definition of infrared incinerator or plasma arc incinerator.
Incompatible waste
means a hazardous waste which is unsuitable for:
(1) Placement in a particular device or facility because it may cause corrosion or decay of containment materials (e.g., container inner liners or tank walls); or
(2) Commingling with another waste or material under uncontrolled conditions because the commingling might produce heat or pressure, fire or explosion, violent reaction, toxic dusts, mists, fumes, or gases, or flammable fumes or gases.
(See appendix V of parts 264 and 265 of this chapter for examples.)
Individual generation site
means the contiguous site at or on which one or more hazardous wastes are generated. An individual generation site, such as a large manufacturing plant, may have one or more sources of hazardous waste but is considered a single or individual generation site if the site or property is contiguous.
Industrial furnace
means any of the following enclosed devices that are integral components of manufacturing processes and that use thermal treatment to accomplish recovery of materials or energy:
(1) Cement kilns
(2) Lime kilns
(3) Aggregate kilns
(4) Phosphate kilns
(5) Coke ovens
(6) Blast furnaces
(7) Smelting, melting and refining furnaces (including pyrometallurgical devices such as cupolas, reverberator furnaces, sintering machine, roasters, and foundry furnaces)
(8) Titanium dioxide chloride process oxidation reactors
(9) Methane reforming furnaces
(10) Pulping liquor recovery furnaces
(11) Combustion devices used in the recovery of sulfur values from spent sulfuric acid
(12) Halogen acid furnaces (HAFs) for the production of acid from halogenated hazardous waste generated by chemical production facilities where the furnace is located on the site of a chemical production facility, the acid product has a halogen acid content of at least 3%, the acid product is used in a manufacturing process, and, except for hazardous waste burned as fuel,
hazardous waste fed to the furnace has a minimum halogen content of 20% as-generated.
(13) Such other devices as the Administrator may, after notice and comment, add to this list on the basis of one or more of the following factors:
(i) The design and use of the device primarily to accomplish recovery of material products;
(ii) The use of the device to burn or reduce raw materials to make a material product;
(iii) The use of the device to burn or reduce secondary materials as effective substitutes for raw materials, in processes using raw materials as principal feedstocks;
(iv) The use of the device to burn or reduce secondary materials as ingredients in an industrial process to make a material product;
(v) The use of the device in common industrial practice to produce a material product; and
(vi) Other factors, as appropriate.
Infrared incinerator
means any enclosed device that uses electric powered resistance heaters as a source of radiant heat followed by an afterburner using controlled flame combustion and which is not listed as an industrial furnace.
Inground tank
means a device meeting the definition of “tank” in § 260.10 whereby a portion of the tank wall is situated to any degree within the ground, thereby preventing visual inspection of that external surface area of the tank that is in the ground.
Injection well
means a well into which fluids are injected. (See also “underground injection”.)
Inner liner
means a continuous layer of material placed inside a tank or container which protects the construction materials of the tank or container from the contained waste or reagents used to treat the waste.
Installation inspector
means a person who, by reason of his knowledge of the physical sciences and the principles of engineering, acquired by a professional education and related practical experience, is qualified to supervise the installation of tank systems.
Intermediate facility
means any facility that stores hazardous secondary materials for more than 10 days, other than a hazardous secondary material generator or reclaimer of such material.
International shipment
means the transportation of hazardous waste into or out of the jurisdiction of the United States.
Lamp,
also referred to as “universal waste lamp”, is defined as the bulb or tube portion of an electric lighting device. A lamp is specifically designed to produce radiant energy, most often in the ultraviolet, visible, and infra-red regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Examples of common universal waste electric lamps include, but are not limited to, fluorescent, high intensity discharge, neon, mercury vapor, high pressure sodium, and metal halide lamps.
Land-based unit
means an area where hazardous secondary materials are placed in or on the land before recycling. This definition does not include land-based production units.
Landfill
means a disposal facility or part of a facility where hazardous waste is placed in or on land and which is not a pile, a land treatment facility, a surface impoundment, an underground injection well, a salt dome formation, a salt bed formation, an underground mine, a cave, or a corrective action management unit.
Landfill cell
means a discrete volume of a hazardous waste landfill which uses a liner to provide isolation of wastes from adjacent cells or wastes. Examples of landfill cells are trenches and pits.
Land treatment facility
means a facility or part of a facility at which hazardous waste is applied onto or incorporated into the soil surface; such facilities are disposal facilities if the waste will remain after closure.
Large quantity generator
is a generator who generates any of the following amounts in a calendar month:
(1) Greater than or equal to 1,000 kilograms (2200 lbs) of non-acute hazardous waste; or
(2) Greater than 1 kilogram (2.2 lbs) of acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter; or
(3) Greater than 100 kilograms (220 lbs) of any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill, into or on
any land or water, of any acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter.
Leachate
means any liquid, including any suspended components in the liquid, that has percolated through or drained from hazardous waste.
Leak-detection system
means a system capable of detecting the failure of either the primary or secondary containment structure or the presence of a release of hazardous waste or accumulated liquid in the secondary containment structure. Such a system must employ operational controls (e.g., daily visual inspections for releases into the secondary containment system of aboveground tanks) or consist of an interstitial monitoring device designed to detect continuously and automatically the failure of the primary or secondary containment structure or the presence of a release of hazardous waste into the secondary containment structure.
Liner
means a continuous layer of natural or man-made materials, beneath or on the sides of a surface impoundment, landfill, or landfill cell, which restricts the downward or lateral escape of hazardous waste, hazardous waste constituents, or leachate.
Management
or
hazardous waste management
means the systematic control of the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, processing, treatment, recovery, and disposal of hazardous waste.
Manifest
means the shipping document EPA Form 8700-22 (including, if necessary, EPA Form 8700-22A), or the electronic manifest, originated and signed in accordance with the applicable requirements of parts 262 through 265 of this chapter.
Manifest tracking number
means: The alphanumeric identification number (
i.e.
, a unique three letter suffix preceded by nine numerical digits), which is pre-printed in Item 4 of the Manifest by a registered source.
Mercury-containing equipment
means a device or part of a device (including thermostats, but excluding batteries and lamps) that contains elemental mercury integral to its function.
Military munitions
means all ammunition products and components produced or used by or for the U.S. Department of Defense or the U.S. Armed Services for national defense and security, including military munitions under the control of the Department of Defense, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and National Guard personnel. The term military munitions includes: confined gaseous, liquid, and solid propellants, explosives, pyrotechnics, chemical and riot control agents, smokes, and incendiaries used by DOD components, including bulk explosives and chemical warfare agents, chemical munitions, rockets, guided and ballistic missiles, bombs, warheads, mortar rounds, artillery ammunition, small arms ammunition, grenades, mines, torpedoes, depth charges, cluster munitions and dispensers, demolition charges, and devices and components thereof. Military munitions do not include wholly inert items, improvised explosive devices, and nuclear weapons, nuclear devices, and nuclear components thereof. However, the term does include non-nuclear components of nuclear devices, managed under DOE's nuclear weapons program after all required sanitization operations under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, have been completed.
Mining overburden returned to the mine site
means any material overlying an economic mineral deposit which is removed to gain access to that deposit and is then used for reclamation of a surface mine.
Miscellaneous unit
means a hazardous waste management unit where hazardous waste is treated, stored, or disposed of and that is not a container, tank, surface impoundment, pile, land treatment unit, landfill, incinerator, boiler, industrial furnace, underground injection well with appropriate technical standards under part 146 of this chapter, containment building, corrective action management unit, unit eligible for a research, development, and demonstration permit under 40 CFR 270.65, or staging pile.
Movement
means that hazardous waste transported to a facility in an individual vehicle.
New hazardous waste management facility
or
new facility
means a facility which began operation, or for which
construction commenced after November 19, 1980. (See also “Existing hazardous waste management facility”.)
New tank system
or
new tank component
means a tank system or component that will be used for the storage or treatment of hazardous waste ­­and for which installation has commenced after July 14, 1986; except, however, for purposes of § 264.193(g)(2) and § 265.193(g)(2), a new tank system is one for which construction commences after July 14, 1986. (See also “existing tank system.”)
No free liquids,
as used in 40 CFR 261.4(a)(26) and 40 CFR 261.4(b)(18), means that solvent-contaminated wipes may not contain free liquids as determined by Method 9095B (Paint Filter Liquids Test), included in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods” (EPA Publication SW-846), which is incorporated by reference, and that there is no free liquid in the container holding the wipes. No free liquids may also be determined using another standard or test method as defined by an authorized state.
Non-acute hazardous waste
means all hazardous wastes that are not acute hazardous waste, as defined in this section.
On ground tank
means a device meeting the definition of “tank” in § 260.10 and that is situated in such a way that the bottom of the tank is on the same level as the adjacent surrounding surface so that the external tank bottom cannot be visually inspected.
On-site
means the same or geographically contiguous property which may be divided by public or private right-of-way, provided the entrance and exit between the properties is at a cross-roads intersection, and access is by crossing as opposed to going along, the right-of-way. Non-contiguous properties owned by the same person but connected by a right-of-way which he controls and to which the public does not have access, is also considered on-site property.
Open burning
means the combustion of any material without the following characteristics:
(1) Control of combustion air to maintain adequate temperature for efficient combustion,
(2) Containment of the combustion-reaction in an enclosed device to provide sufficient residence time and mixing for complete combustion, and
(3) Control of emission of the gaseous combustion products.
(See also “incineration” and “thermal treatment”.)
Operator
means the person responsible for the overall operation of a facility.
Owner
means the person who owns a facility or part of a facility.
Partial closure
means the closure of a hazardous waste management unit in accordance with the applicable closure requirements of parts 264 and 265 of this chapter at a facility that contains other active hazardous waste management units. For example, partial closure may include the closure of a tank (including its associated piping and underlying containment systems), landfill cell, surface impoundment, waste pile, or other hazardous waste management unit, while other units of the same facility continue to operate.
Person
means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, Federal Agency, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, association, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a State, or any interstate body.
Personnel
or
facility personnel
means all persons who work at, or oversee the operations of, a hazardous waste facility, and whose actions or failure to act may result in noncompliance with the requirements of part 264 or 265 of this chapter.
Pesticide
means any substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest, or intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, other than any article that:
(1) Is a new animal drug under FFDCA section 201(w), or
(2) Is an animal drug that has been determined by regulation of the Secretary of Health and Human Services not to be a new animal drug, or
(3) Is an animal feed under FFDCA section 201(x) that bears or contains any substances described by paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.
Pile
means any non-containerized accumulation of solid, nonflowing hazardous waste that is used for treatment or storage and that is not a containment building.
Plasma arc incinerator
means any enclosed device using a high intensity electrical discharge or arc as a source of heat followed by an afterburner using controlled flame combustion and which is not listed as an industrial furnace.
Point source
means any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including, but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows from irrigated agriculture.
Publicly owned treatment works
or
POTW
means any device or system used in the treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature which is owned by a “State” or “municipality” (as defined by section 502(4) of the CWA). This definition includes sewers, pipes, or other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW providing treatment.
Qualified Ground-Water Scientist
means a scientist or engineer who has received a baccalaureate or post-graduate degree in the natural sciences or engineering, and has sufficient training and experience in ground-water hydrology and related fields as may be demonstrated by state registration, professional certifications, or completion of accredited university courses that enable that individual to make sound professional judgements regarding ground-water monitoring and contaminant fate and transport.
Recognized trader
means a person domiciled in the United States, by site of business, who acts to arrange and facilitate transboundary movements of wastes destined for recovery or disposal operations, either by purchasing from and subsequently selling to United States and foreign facilities, or by acting under arrangements with a United States waste facility to arrange for the export or import of the wastes.
Regional Administrator
means the Regional Administrator for the EPA Region in which the facility is located, or his designee.
Remanufacturing
means processing a higher-value hazardous secondary material in order to manufacture a product that serves a similar functional purpose as the original commercial-grade material. For the purpose of this definition, a hazardous secondary material is considered higher-value if it was generated from the use of a commercial-grade material in a manufacturing process and can be remanufactured into a similar commercial-grade material.
Remediation waste
means all solid and hazardous wastes, and all media (including ground water, surface water, soils, and sediments) and debris, that are managed for implementing cleanup.
Remediation waste management site
means a facility where an owner or operator is or will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous remediation wastes. A remediation waste management site is not a facility that is subject to corrective action under 40 CFR 264.101, but is subject to corrective action requirements if the site is located in such a facility.
Replacement unit
means a landfill, surface impoundment, or waste pile unit (1) from which all or substantially all of the waste is removed, and (2) that is subsequently reused to treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste. “Replacement unit” does not apply to a unit from which waste is removed during closure, if the subsequent reuse solely involves the disposal of waste from that unit and other closing units or corrective action areas at the facility, in accordance with an approved closure plan or EPA or State approved corrective action.
Representative sample
means a sample of a universe or whole (e.g., waste pile, lagoon, ground water) which can be expected to exhibit the average properties of the universe or whole.
Run-off
means any rainwater, leachate, or other liquid that drains over land from any part of a facility.
Run-on
means any rainwater, leachate, or other liquid that drains over land onto any part of a facility.
Saturated zone
or
zone of saturation
means that part of the earth's crust in which all voids are filled with water.
Sludge
means any solid, semi-solid, ­­or liquid waste generated from a municipal, commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility exclusive of the treated effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
Sludge dryer
means any enclosed thermal treatment device that is used to dehydrate sludge and that has a maximum total thermal input, excluding the heating value of the sludge itself, of 2,500 Btu/lb of sludge treated on a wet-weight basis.
Small quantity generator
is a generator who generates the following amounts in a calendar month:
(1) Greater than 100 kilograms (220 lbs) but less than 1,000 kilograms (2200 lbs) of non-acute hazardous waste; and
(2) Less than or equal to 1 kilogram (2.2 lbs) of acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter; and
(3) Less than or equal to 100 kilograms (220 lbs) of any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill, into or on any land or water, of any acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter.
Solid waste
means a solid waste as defined in § 261.2 of this chapter.
Solvent-contaminated wipe
means—
(1) A wipe that, after use or after cleaning up a spill, either:
(i) Contains one or more of the F001 through F005 solvents listed in 40 CFR 261.31 or the corresponding P- or U- listed solvents found in 40 CFR 261.33;
(ii) Exhibits a hazardous characteristic found in 40 CFR part 261 subpart C when that characteristic results from a solvent listed in 40 CFR part 261; and/or
(iii) Exhibits only the hazardous waste characteristic of ignitability found in 40 CFR 261.21 due to the presence of one or more solvents that are not listed in 40 CFR part 261.
(2) Solvent-contaminated wipes that contain listed hazardous waste other than solvents, or exhibit the characteristic of toxicity, corrosivity, or reactivity due to contaminants other than solvents, are not eligible for the exclusions at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(26) and 40 CFR 261.4(b)(18).
Sorbent
means a material that is used to soak up free liquids by either adsorption or absorption, or both.
Sorb
means to either adsorb or absorb, or both.
Staging pile
means an accumulation of solid, non-flowing remediation waste (as defined in this section) that is not a containment building and that is used only during remedial operations for temporary storage at a facility. Staging piles must be designated by the Director according to the requirements of 40 CFR 264.554.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Storage
means the holding of hazardous waste for a temporary period, at the end of which the hazardous waste is treated, disposed of, or stored elsewhere.
Sump
means any pit or reservoir that meets the definition of tank and those troughs/trenches connected to it that serve to collect hazardous waste for transport to hazardous waste storage, treatment, or disposal facilities; except that as used in the landfill, surface impoundment, and waste pile rules, “sump” means any lined pit or reservoir that serves to collect liquids drained from a leachate collection and removal system or leak detection system for subsequent removal from the system.
Surface impoundment
or
impoundment
means a facility or part of a facility which is a natural topographic depression, man-made excavation, or diked area formed primarily of earthen materials (although it may be lined with man-made materials), which is designed to hold an accumulation of liquid wastes or wastes containing free liquids, and which is not an injection well. Examples of surface impoundments are holding, storage, settling, and aeration pits, ponds, and lagoons.
Tank
means a stationary device, designed to contain an accumulation of hazardous waste which is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials
(e.g., wood, concrete, steel, plastic) which provide structural support.
Tank system
means a hazardous waste storage or treatment tank and its associated ancillary equipment and containment system.
TEQ
means toxicity equivalence, the international method of relating the toxicity of various dioxin/furan congeners to the toxicity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.
Thermal treatment
means the treatment of hazardous waste in a device which uses elevated temperatures as the primary means to change the chemical, physical, or biological character or composition of the hazardous waste. Examples of thermal treatment processes are incineration, molten salt, pyrolysis, calcination, wet air oxidation, and microwave discharge. (See also “incinerator” and “open burning”.)
Thermostat
means a temperature control device that contains metallic mercury in an ampule attached to a bimetal sensing element, and mercury-containing ampules that have been removed from these temperature control devices in compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR 273.13(c)(2) or 273.33(c)(2).
Totally enclosed treatment facility
means a facility for the treatment of hazardous waste which is directly connected to an industrial production process and which is constructed and operated in a manner which prevents the release of any hazardous waste or any constituent thereof into the environment during treatment. An example is a pipe in which waste acid is neutralized.
Transfer facility
means any transportation-related facility, including loading docks, parking areas, storage areas and other similar areas where shipments of hazardous waste or hazardous secondary materials are held during the normal course of transportation.
Transport vehicle
means a motor vehicle or rail car used for the transportation of cargo by any mode. Each cargo-carrying body (trailer, railroad freight car, etc.) is a separate transport vehicle.
Transportation
means the movement of hazardous waste by air, rail, highway, or water.
Transporter
means a person engaged in the offsite transportation of hazardous waste by air, rail, highway, or water.
Treatability study
means a study in which a hazardous waste is subjected to a treatment process to determine: (1) Whether the waste is amenable to the treatment process, (2) what pretreatment (if any) is required, (3) the optimal process conditions needed to achieve the desired treatment, (4) the efficiency of a treatment process for a specific waste or wastes, or (5) the characteristics and volumes of residuals from a particular treatment process. Also included in this definition for the purpose of the § 261.4 (e) and (f) exemptions are liner compatibility, corrosion, and other material compatibility studies and toxicological and health effects studies. A “treatability study” is not a means to commercially treat or dispose of hazardous waste.
Treatment
means any method, technique, or process, including neutralization, designed to change the physical, chemical, or biological character or composition of any hazardous waste so as to neutralize such waste, or so as to recover energy or material resources from the waste, or so as to render such waste non-hazardous, or less hazardous; safer to transport, store, or dispose of; or amenable for recovery, amenable for storage, or reduced in volume.
Treatment zone
means a soil area of the unsaturated zone of a land treatment unit within which hazardous constituents are degraded, transformed, or immobilized.
Underground injection
means the subsurface emplacement of fluids through a bored, drilled or driven well; or through a dug well, where the depth of the dug well is greater than the largest surface dimension. (See also “injection well”.)
Underground tank
means a device meeting the definition of “tank” in § 260.10 whose entire surface area is totally below the surface of and covered by the ground.
Unfit-for use tank system
means a tank system that has been determined through an integrity assessment or other inspection to be no longer capable of storing or treating hazardous
waste without posing a threat of release of hazardous waste to the environment.
United States
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Universal waste
means any of the following hazardous wastes that are managed under the universal waste requirements of part 273 of this chapter:
(1) Batteries as described in § 273.2 of this chapter;
(2) Pesticides as described in § 273.3 of this chapter;
(3) Mercury-containing equipment as described in § 273.4 of this chapter;
(4) Lamps as described in § 273.5 of this chapter; and
(5) Aerosol cans as described in § 273.6 of this chapter.
Universal waste handler:
(1) Means:
(i) A generator (as defined in this section) of universal waste; or
(ii) The owner or operator of a facility, including all contiguous property, that receives universal waste from other universal waste handlers, accumulates universal waste, and sends universal waste to another universal waste handler, to a destination facility, or to a foreign destination.
(2) Does not mean:
(i) A person who treats (except under the provisions of 40 CFR 273.13(a) or (c), or 40 CFR 273.33(a) or (c)), disposes of, or recycles (except under the provisions of 40 CFR 273.13(e) or 40 CFR 273.33(e)) universal waste; or
(ii) A person engaged in the off-site transportation of universal waste by air, rail, highway, or water, including a universal waste transfer facility.
Universal waste transporter
means a person engaged in the off-site transportation of universal waste by air, rail, highway, or water.
Unsaturated zone
or
zone of aeration
means the zone between the land surface and the water table.
Uppermost aquifer
means the geologic formation nearest the natural ground surface that is an aquifer, as well as lower aquifers that are hydraulically interconnected with this aquifer within the facility's property boundary.
Used oil
means any oil that has been refined from crude oil, or any synthetic oil, that has been used and as a result of such use is contaminated by physical or chemical impurities.
User of the electronic manifest system
means a hazardous waste generator, a hazardous waste transporter, an owner or operator of a hazardous waste treatment, storage, recycling, or disposal facility, or any other person that:
(1) Is required to use a manifest to comply with:
(i) Any federal or state requirement to track the shipment, transportation, and receipt of hazardous waste or other waste material that is shipped from the site of generation to an off-site designated facility for treatment, storage, recycling, or disposal; or
(ii) Any federal or state requirement to track the shipment, transportation, and receipt of rejected wastes or regulated container residues that are shipped from a designated facility to an alternative facility, or returned to the generator; and
(2) Elects to use the system to obtain, complete and transmit an electronic manifest format supplied by the EPA electronic manifest system, or
(3) Elects to use the paper manifest form and submits to the system for data processing purposes a paper copy of the manifest (or data from such a paper copy), in accordance with § 264.71(a)(2)(v) or § 265.71(a)(2)(v) of this chapter. These paper copies are submitted for data exchange purposes only and are not the official copies of record for legal purposes.
Very small quantity generator
is a generator who generates less than or equal to the following amounts in a calendar month:
(1) 100 kilograms (220 lbs) of non-acute hazardous waste; and
(2) 1 kilogram (2.2 lbs) of acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter; and
(3) 100 kilograms (220 lbs) of any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill, into or on any land or water, of any acute hazardous waste listed in § 261.31 or § 261.33(e) of this chapter.
Vessel
includes every description of watercraft, used or capable of being
used as a means of transportation on the water.
Wastewater treatment unit
means a device which:
(1) Is part of a wastewater treatment facility that is subject to regulation under either section 402 or 307(b) of the Clean Water Act; and
(2) Receives and treats or stores an influent wastewater that is a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 of this chapter, or that generates and accumulates a wastewater treatment sludge that is a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 of this chapter, or treats or stores a wastewater treatment sludge which is a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 of this Chapter; and
(3) Meets the definition of tank or tank system in § 260.10 of this chapter.
Water (bulk shipment)
means the bulk transportation of hazardous waste which is loaded or carried on board a vessel without containers or labels.
Well
means any shaft or pit dug or bored into the earth, generally of a cylindrical form, and often walled with bricks or tubing to prevent the earth from caving in.
Well injection:
(See “underground injection”.)
Zone of engineering control
means an area under the control of the owner/operator that, upon detection of a hazardous waste release, can be readily cleaned up prior to the release of hazardous waste or hazardous constituents to ground water or surface water.
Wipe
means a woven or non-woven shop towel, rag, pad, or swab made of wood pulp, fabric, cotton, polyester blends, or other material.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 260.10, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 260.11
Incorporation by reference.
When used in parts 260 through 268 of this chapter, the following materials are incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved materials are available for inspection at the OLEM Docket in the Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), West William Jefferson Clinton Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading room is (202) 566-1744, and the telephone number for the OLEM Docket is (202) 566-0270. These approved materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
In addition, these materials are available from the following sources:
(a)
American Petroleum Institute (API).
1220 L Street Northwest, Washington, DC 20005, (855) 999-9870,
www.api.org.
(1) API Publication 2517, Third Edition, February 1989, “Evaporative Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks,” IBR approved for § 265.1084.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
ASTM International (ASTM).
100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, (877) 909-ASTM,
www.astm.org.
(1) ASTM D93-79, “Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester,” IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(2) ASTM D93-80, “Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester,” IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(3) ASTM D1946-82, “Standard Method for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography,” IBR approved for §§ 264.1033 and 265.1033.
(4) ASTM D2267-88, “Standard Test Method for Aromatics in Light Naphthas and Aviation Gasolines by Gas Chromatography,” IBR approved for § 264.1063.
(5) ASTM D2382-83, “Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter (High-Precision Method),” IBR approved for §§ 264.1033 and 265.1033.
(6) ASTM D2879-92, “Standard Test Method for Vapor Pressure—Temperature Relationship and Initial Decomposition Temperature of Liquids by
Isoteniscope,” IBR approved for § 265.1084.
(7) ASTM D3278-78, “Standard Test Methods for Flash Point for Liquids by Setaflash Closed Tester,” IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(8) ASTM D8174-18 “Standard Test Method for Finite Flash Point Determination of Liquid Wastes by Small Scale Closed Cup Tester.” Approved March 15, 2018, IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(9) ASTM D8175-18 “Standard Test Method for Finite Flash Point Determination of Liquid Wastes by Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester.” Approved March 15, 2018, IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(10) ASTM E168-88, “Standard Practices for General Techniques of Infrared Quantitative Analysis,” IBR approved for § 264.1063.
(11) ASTM E169-87, “Standard Practices for General Techniques of Ultraviolet-Visible Quantitative Analysis,” IBR approved for § 264.1063.
(12) ASTM E260-85, “Standard Practice for Packed Column Gas Chromatography,” IBR approved for § 264.1063.
(13) ASTM E681-85 “Standard Test Method for Concentration Limits of Flammability of Chemicals (Vapors and gases),” Approved November 14, 1985, IBR approved for § 261.21(a).
(c)
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Material cited in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) is available from: National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161; the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, (202) 512-1800; EPA's National Service Center for Environmental Publications at
https://www.epa.gov/nscep.
Material cited in paragraph (d)(4) of this section is available at
https://www.epa.gov/hw-sw846.
(1) “APTI Course 415: Control of Gaseous Emissions,” EPA Publication EPA-450/2-81-005, December 1981, IBR approved for §§ 264.1035 and 265.1035.
(2) Method 1664, n-Hexane Extractable Material (HEM; Oil and Grease) and Silica Gel Treated n-Hexane Extractable Material SGT-HEM; Non-polar Material) by Extraction and Gravimetry:
(i) Revision A, EPA-821-R-98-002, February 1999, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(ii) Revision B, EPA-821-R-10-001, February 2010, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(3) “Screening Procedures for Estimating the Air Quality Impact of Stationary Sources, Revised”, October 1992, EPA Publication No. EPA-450/R-92-019, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 266.
(4) The following methods as published in the test methods compendium known as “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, Third Edition.
(i) Method 0010, Modified Method 5 Sampling Train, Revision 1, dated August 2018, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(ii) Method 0011, Sampling for Selected Aldehyde and Ketone Emissions from Stationary Sources, Revision 1, dated August 2018, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261 and appendix IX to part 266
(iii) Method 0020, Source Assessment Sampling System (SASS), Revision 1, dated August 2018, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(iv) Method 0023A, Sampling Method for Polychlorinated Dibenzo-p-Dioxins and Polychlorinated Dibenzofuran Emissions from Stationary Sources, Revision 2, dated August 2018, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, § 266.104(e), and appendix IX to part 266.
(v) Method 0030, Volatile Organic Sampling Train, dated September 1986 and in the Basic Manual, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(vi) Method 0031, Sampling Method for Volatile Organic Compounds (SMVOC), dated December 1996 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(vii) Method 0040, Sampling of Principal Organic Hazardous Constituents from Combustion Sources Using Tedlar® Bags, dated December 1996 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(viii) Method 0050, Isokinetic HCl/Cl
2
Emission Sampling Train, dated December 1996 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, § 266.107, and appendix IX to part 266.
(ix) Method 0051, Midget Impinger HCl/Cl2 Emission Sampling Train, Revision 1, dated August 2018, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, § 266.107, and appendix IX to part 266.
(x) Method 0060, Determination of Metals in Stack Emissions, dated December 1996 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, § 266.106, and appendix IX to part 266.
(xi) Method 0061, Determination of Hexavalent Chromium Emissions from Stationary Sources, dated December 1996 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261 § 266.106, and appendix IX to part 266.
(xii) Method 1010B, Test Methods for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed-Cup Tester, dated December 2018, IBR approved for § 261.21 and appendix IX to part 261.
(xiii) Method 1020C, Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Setaflash (Small Scale) Closed-Cup Apparatus, dated December 2018, IBR approved for § 261.21 and appendix IX to part 261.
(xiv) Method 1110A, Corrosivity Toward Steel, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for § 261.22 and appendix IX to part 261.
(xv) Method 1310B, Extraction Procedure (EP) Toxicity Test Method and Structural Integrity Test, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xvi) Method 1311, Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, dated July 1992 and in Update I, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, and §§ 261.24, 268.7, 268.40.
(xvii) Method 1312, Synthetic Precipitation Leaching Procedure, dated September 1994 and in Update III, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xviii) Method 1320, Multiple Extraction Procedure, dated September 1986 and in the Basic Manual, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xix) Method 1330A, Extraction Procedure for Oily Wastes, dated July 1992 and in Update I, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xx) Method 9010C, Total and Amenable Cyanide: Distillation, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261 and §§ 268.40, 268.44, 268.48.
(xxi) Method 9012B, Total and Amenable Cyanide (Automated Colorimetric, with Off-Line Distillation), dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261 and §§ 268.40, 268.44, 268.48.
(xxii) Method 9040C, pH Electrometric Measurement, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261 and § 261.22.
(xxiii) Method 9045D, Soil and Waste pH, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xxiv) Method 9060A, Total Organic Carbon, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261, and §§ 264.1034, 264.1063, 265.1034, 265.1063.
(xxv) Method 9070A, n-Hexane Extractable material (HEM) for Aqueous Samples, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xxvi) Method 9071B, n-Hexane Extractable Material (HEM) for Sludge, Sediment, and Solid Samples, dated April 1998 and in Update IIIA, IBR approved for appendix IX to part 261.
(xxvii) Method 9095B, Paint Filter Liquids Test, dated November 2004 and in Update IIIB, IBR approved, appendix IX to part 261, and §§ 264.190, 264.314, 265.190, 265.314, 265.1081, 267.190(a), 268.32.
(d)
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9101, (800) 344-3555,
www.nfpa.org/.
(1) NFPA 30, “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code,” 1977 Edition, IBR approved for §§ 262.16(b), 264.198(b), 265.198(b), and 267.202(b).
(2) NFPA 30, “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code,” 1981 Edition, IBR approved for §§ 262.16(b), 264.198(b), 265.198(b), and 267.202(b).
(e)
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Economic Cooperation and Development, Environment Directorate, 2 rue André Pascal, F-75775 Paris Cedex 16, France, o
www.oecd-ilibrary.org/.
(1) Guidance Manual for the Control of Transboundary Movements of Recoverable Wastes, copyright 2009, Annex B: OECD Consolidated List of Wastes Subject to the Green Control Procedure and Annex C: OECD Consolidated List
of Wastes Subject to the Amber Control Procedure, IBR approved for §§ 262.82(a), 262.83(b), (d), and (g), and 262.84(b) and (d).
(2) [Reserved]
[85 FR 40606, July 7, 2020]

# Subpart C—Rulemaking Petitions
§ 260.20
General.
(a) Any person may petition the Administrator to modify or revoke any provision in parts 260 through 266, 268 and 273 of this chapter. This section sets forth general requirements which apply to all such petitions. Section 260.21 sets forth additional requirements for petitions to add a testing or analytical method to part 261, 264 or 265 of this chapter. Section 260.22 sets forth additional requirements for petitions to exclude a waste or waste-derived material at a particular facility from § 261.3 of this chapter or the lists of hazardous wastes in subpart D of part 261 of this chapter. Section 260.23 sets forth additional requirements for petitions to amend part 273 of this chapter to include additional hazardous wastes or categories of hazardous waste as universal waste.
(b) Each petition must be submitted to the Administrator by certified mail and must include:
(1) The petitioner's name and address;
(2) A statement of the petitioner's interest in the proposed action;
(3) A description of the proposed action, including (where appropriate) suggested regulatory language; and
(4) A statement of the need and justification for the proposed action, including any supporting tests, studies, or other information.
(c) The Administrator will make a tentative decision to grant or deny a petition and will publish notice of such tentative decision, either in the form of an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking, a proposed rule, or a tentative determination to deny the petition, in the
Federal Register
for written public comment.
(d) Upon the written request of any interested person, the Administrator may, at his discretion, hold an informal public hearing to consider oral comments on the tentative decision. A person requesting a hearing must state the issues to be raised and explain why written comments would not suffice to communicate the person's views. The Administrator may in any case decide on his own motion to hold an informal public hearing.
(e) After evaluating all public comments the Administrator will make a final decision by publishing in the
Federal Register
a regulatory amendment or a denial of the petition.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986; 57 FR 38564, Aug. 25, 1992; 60 FR 25540, May 11, 1995]
§ 260.21
Petitions for equivalent testing or analytical methods.
(a) Any person seeking to add a testing or analytical method to part 261, 264, or 265 of this chapter may petition for a regulatory amendment under this section and § 260.20. To be successful, the person must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the proposed method is equal to or superior to the corresponding method prescribed in part 261, 264, or 265 of this chapter, in terms of its sensitivity, accuracy, and precision (i.e., reproducibility).
(b) Each petition must include, in addition to the information required by § 260.20(b):
(1) A full description of the proposed method, including all procedural steps and equipment used in the method;
(2) A description of the types of wastes or waste matrices for which the proposed method may be used;
(3) Comparative results obtained from using the proposed method with those obtained from using the relevant or corresponding methods prescribed in part 261, 264, or 265 of this chapter;
(4) An assessment of any factors which may interfere with, or limit the use of, the proposed method; and
(5) A description of the quality control procedures necessary to ensure the sensitivity, accuracy and precision of the proposed method.
(c) After receiving a petition for an equivalent method, the Administrator may request any additional information on the proposed method which he may reasonably require to evaluate the method.
(d) If the Administrator amends the regulations to permit use of a new testing method, the method will be incorporated by reference in § 260.11 and added to “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, Washington, DC 20460.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 47391, Dec. 4, 1984; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005; 74 FR 30230, June 25, 2009]
§ 260.22
Petitions to amend part 261 to exclude a waste produced at a particular facility.
(a) Any person seeking to exclude a waste at a particular generating facility from the lists in subpart D of part 261 may petition for a regulatory amendment under this section and § 260.20. To be successful:
(1) The petitioner must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the waste produced by a particular generating facility does not meet any of the criteria under which the waste was listed as a hazardous or an acutely hazardous waste; and
(2) Based on a complete application, the Administrator must determine, where he has a reasonable basis to believe that factors (including additional constituents) other than those for which the waste was listed could cause the waste to be a hazardous waste, that such factors do not warrant retaining the waste as a hazardous waste. A waste which is so excluded, however, still may be a hazardous waste by operation of subpart C of part 261.
(b) The procedures in this Section and § 260.20 may also be used to petition the Administrator for a regulatory amendment to exclude from § 261.3(a)(2)(ii) or (c), a waste which is described in these Sections and is either a waste listed in subpart D, or is derived from a waste listed in subpart D. This exclusion may only be issued for a particular generating, storage, treatment, or disposal facility. The petitioner must make the same demonstration as required by paragraph (a) of this section. Where the waste is a mixture of solid waste and one or more listed hazardous wastes or is derived from one or more hazardous wastes, his demonstration must be made with respect to the waste mixture as a whole; analyses must be conducted for not only those constituents for which the listed waste contained in the mixture was listed as hazardous, but also for factors (including additional constituents) that could cause the waste mixture to be a hazardous waste. A waste which is so excluded may still be a hazardous waste by operation of subpart C of part 261.
(c) If the waste is listed with codes “I”, “C”, “R”, or “E”, in subpart D,
(1) The petitioner must show that the waste does not exhibit the relevant characteristic for which the waste was listed as defined in § 261.21, § 261.22, § 261.23, or § 261.24 using any applicable methods prescribed therein. The petitioner also must show that the waste does not exhibit any of the other characteristics defined in § 261.21, § 261.22, § 261.23, or § 261.24 using any applicable methods prescribed therein;
(2) Based on a complete application, the Administrator must determine, where he has a reasonable basis to believe that factors (including additional constituents) other than those for which the waste was listed could cause the waste to be hazardous waste, that such factors do not warrant retaining the waste as a hazardous waste. A waste which is so excluded, however, still may be a hazardous waste by operation of subpart C of part 261.
(d) If the waste is listed with code “T” in subpart D,
(1) The petitioner must demonstrate that the waste:
(i) Does not contain the constituent or constituents (as defined in appendix VII of part 261 of this chapter) that caused the Administrator to list the waste; or
(ii) Although containing one or more of the hazardous constituents (as defined in appendix VII of part 261) that caused the Administrator to list the waste, does not meet the criterion of § 261.11(a)(3) when considering the factors used by the Administrator in § 261.11(a)(3) (i) through (xi) under which the waste was listed as hazardous; and
(2) Based on a complete application, the Administrator must determine,
where he has a reasonable basis to believe that factors (including additional constituents) other than those for which the waste was listed could cause the waste to be a hazardous waste, that such factors do not warrant retaining the waste as a hazardous waste; and
(3) The petitioner must demonstrate that the waste does not exhibit any of the characteristics defined in § 261.21, § 261.22, § 261.23, and § 261.24 using any applicable methods prescribed therein;
(4) A waste which is so excluded, however, still may be a hazardous waste by operation of subpart C of part 261.
(e) If the waste is listed with the code “H” in subpart D,
(1) The petitioner must demonstrate that the waste does not meet the criterion of § 261.11(a)(2); and
(2) Based on a complete application, the Administrator must determine, where he has a reasonable basis to believe that additional factors (including additional constituents) other than those for which the waste was listed could cause the waste to be a hazardous waste, that such factors do not warrant retaining the waste as a hazardous waste; and
(3) The petitioner must demonstrate that the waste does not exhibit any of the characteristics defined in § 261.21, § 261.22, § 261.23, and § 261.24 using any applicable methods prescribed therein;
(4) A waste which is so excluded, however, still may be a hazardous waste by operation of subpart C of part 261.
(f) [Reserved for listing radioactive wastes.]
(g) [Reserved for listing infectious wastes.]
(h) Demonstration samples must consist of enough representative samples, but in no case less than four samples, taken over a period of time sufficient to represent the variability or the uniformity of the waste.
(i) Each petition must include, in addition to the information required by § 260.20(b):
(1) The name and address of the laboratory facility performing the sampling or tests of the waste;
(2) The names and qualifications of the persons sampling and testing the waste;
(3) The dates of sampling and testing;
(4) The location of the generating facility;
(5) A description of the manufacturing processes or other operations and feed materials producing the waste and an assessment of whether such processes, operations, or feed materials can or might produce a waste that is not covered by the demonstration;
(6) A description of the waste and an estimate of the average and maximum monthly and annual quantities of waste covered by the demonstration;
(7) Pertinent data on and discussion of the factors delineated in the respective criterion for listing a hazardous waste, where the demonstration is based on the factors in § 261.11(a)(3);
(8) A description of the methodologies and equipment used to obtain the representative samples;
(9) A description of the sample handling and preparation techniques, including techniques used for extraction, containerization and preservation of the samples;
(10) A description of the tests performed (including results);
(11) The names and model numbers of the instruments used in performing the tests; and
(12) The following statement signed by the generator of the waste or his authorized representative:
I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this demonstration and all attached documents, and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.
(j) After receiving a petition for an exclusion, the Administrator may request any additional information which he may reasonably require to evaluate the petition.
(k) An exclusion will only apply to the waste generated at the individual facility covered by the demonstration and will not apply to waste from any other facility.
(l) The Administrator may exclude only part of the waste for which the demonstration is submitted where he has reason to believe that variability
of the waste justifies a partial exclusion.
[45 FR 33073, May 19, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 28742, July 15, 1985; 54 FR 27116, June 27, 1989; 58 FR 46049, Aug. 31, 1994; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005; 71 FR 40258, July 14, 2006]
§ 260.23
Petitions to amend 40 CFR part 273 to include additional hazardous wastes.
(a) Any person seeking to add a hazardous waste or a category of hazardous waste to the universal waste regulations of part 273 of this chapter may petition for a regulatory amendment under this section, 40 CFR 260.20, and subpart G of 40 CFR part 273.
(b) To be successful, the petitioner must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that regulation under the universal waste regulations of 40 CFR part 273: Is appropriate for the waste or category of waste; will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste; and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program. The petition must include the information required by 40 CFR 260.20(b). The petition should also address as many of the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81 as are appropriate for the waste or category of waste addressed in the petition.
(c) The Administrator will grant or deny a petition using the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81. The decision will be based on the weight of evidence showing that regulation under 40 CFR part 273 is appropriate for the waste or category of waste, will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste, and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program.
(d) The Administrator may request additional information needed to evaluate the merits of the petition.
[60 FR 25540, May 11, 1995]
§ 260.30
Non-waste determinations and variances from classification as a solid waste.
In accordance with the standards and criteria in § 260.31 and § 260.34 and the procedures in § 260.33, the Administrator may determine on a case-by-case basis that the following recycled materials are not solid wastes:
(a) Materials that are ­accumulated speculatively without sufficient amounts being recycled (as defined in § 261.1(c)(8) of this chapter);
(b) Materials that are reclaimed and then reused within the original production process in which they were generated;
(c) Materials that have been reclaimed but must be reclaimed further before the materials are completely recovered.
(d) Hazardous secondary materials that are reclaimed in a continuous industrial process; and
(e) Hazardous secondary materials that are indistinguishable in all relevant aspects from a product or intermediate.
[50 FR 661, Jan. 4, 1985; 50 FR 14219, Apr. 11, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 48041, Sept. 19, 1994; 73 FR 64758, Oct. 30, 2008; 80 FR 1771, Jan. 13, 2015; 83 FR 24667, May 30, 2018]
§ 260.31
Standards and criteria for variances from classification as a solid waste.
(a) The Administrator may grant requests for a variance from classifying as a solid waste those materials that are accumulated speculatively without sufficient amounts being recycled if the applicant demonstrates that sufficient amounts of the material will be recycled or transferred for recycling in the following year. If a variance is granted, it is valid only for the following year, but can be renewed, on an annual basis, by filing a new application. The Administrator's decision will be based on the following criteria:
(1) The manner in which the material is expected to be recycled, when the material is expected to be recycled, and whether this expected disposition is likely to occur (for example, because of past practice, market factors, the nature of the material, or contractual arrangements for recycling);
(2) The reason that the applicant has accumulated the material for one or more years without recycling 75 percent of the volume accumulated at the beginning of the year;
(3) The quantity of material already accumulated and the quantity expected to be generated and accumulated before the material is recycled;
(4) The extent to which the material is handled to minimize loss;
(5) Other relevant factors.
(b) The Administrator may grant requests for a variance from classifying as a solid waste those materials that are reclaimed and then reused as feedstock within the original production process in which the materials were generated if the reclamation operation is an essential part of the production process. This determination will be based on the following criteria:
(1) How economically viable the production process would be if it were to use virgin materials, rather than reclaimed materials;
(2) The extent to which the material is handled before reclamation to minimize loss;
(3) The time periods between generating the material and its reclamation, and between reclamation and return to the original primary production process;
(4) The location of the reclamation operation in relation to the production process;
(5) Whether the reclaimed material is used for the purpose for which it was originally produced when it is returned to the original process, and whether it is returned to the process in substantially its original form;
(6) Whether the person who generates the material also reclaims it;
(7) Other relevant factors.
(c) The Administrator may grant requests for a variance from classifying as a solid waste those hazardous secondary materials that have been partially reclaimed, but must be reclaimed further before recovery is completed, if the partial reclamation has produced a commodity-like material. A determination that a partially-reclaimed material for which the variance is sought is commodity-like will be based on whether the hazardous secondary material is legitimately recycled as specified in § 260.43 of this part and on whether all of the following decision criteria are satisfied:
(1) Whether the degree of partial reclamation the material has undergone is substantial as demonstrated by using a partial reclamation process other than the process that generated the hazardous waste;
(2) Whether the partially-reclaimed material has sufficient economic value that it will be purchased for further reclamation;
(3) Whether the partially-reclaimed material is a viable substitute for a product or intermediate produced from virgin or raw materials which is used in subsequent production steps;
(4) Whether there is a market for the partially-reclaimed material as demonstrated by known customer(s) who are further reclaiming the material (
e.g.,
records of sales and/or contracts and evidence of subsequent use, such as bills of lading);
(5) Whether the partially-reclaimed material is handled to minimize loss.
[50 FR 662, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 48041, Sept. 19, 1994; 71 FR 16902, Apr. 4, 2006; 80 FR 1771, Jan. 13, 2015; 83 FR 24667, May 30, 2018]
§ 260.32
Variances to be classified as a boiler.
In accordance with the standards and criteria in § 260.10 (definition of “boiler”), and the procedures in § 260.33, the Administrator may determine on a case-by-case basis that certain enclosed devices using controlled flame combustion are boilers, even though they do not otherwise meet the definition of boiler contained in § 260.10, after considering the following criteria:
(a) The extent to which the unit has provisions for recovering and exporting thermal energy in the form of steam, heated fluids, or heated gases; and
(b) The extent to which the combustion chamber and energy recovery equipment are of integral design; and
(c) The efficiency of energy recovery, calculated in terms of the recovered energy compared with the thermal value of the fuel; and
(d) The extent to which exported energy is utilized; and
(e) The extent to which the device is in common and customary use as a “boiler” functioning primarily to produce steam, heated fluids, or heated gases; and
(f) Other factors, as appropriate.
[50 FR 662, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 48041, Sept. 19, 1994]
§ 260.33
Procedures for variances from classification as a solid waste, for variances to be classified as a boiler, or for non-waste determinations.
The Administrator will use the following procedures in evaluating applications for variances from classification as a solid waste, applications to classify particular enclosed controlled flame combustion devices as boilers, or applications for non-waste determinations.
(a) The applicant must apply to the Administrator for the variance or non-waste determination. The application must address the relevant criteria contained in § 260.31, § 260.32, or § 260.34, as applicable.
(b) The Administrator will evaluate the application and issue a draft notice tentatively granting or denying the application. Notification of this tentative decision will be provided by newspaper advertisement or radio broadcast in the locality where the recycler is located. The Administrator will accept comment on the tentative decision for 30 days, and may also hold a public hearing upon request or at his discretion. The Administrator will issue a final decision after receipt of comments and after the hearing (if any).
(c) In the event of a change in circumstances that affect how a hazardous secondary material meets the relevant criteria contained in § 260.31, § 260.32, or § 260.34 upon which a variance or non-waste determination has been based, the applicant must send a description of the change in circumstances to the Administrator. The Administrator may issue a determination that the hazardous secondary material continues to meet the relevant criteria of the variance or non-waste determination or may require the facility to re-apply for the variance or non-waste determination.
(d) Variances and non-waste determinations shall be effective for a fixed term not to exceed ten years. No later than six months prior to the end of this term, facilities must re-apply for a variance or non-waste determination. If a facility re-applies for a variance or non-waste determination within six months, the facility may continue to operate under an expired variance or non-waste determination until receiving a decision on their re-application from the Administrator.
(e) Facilities receiving a variance or non-waste determination must provide notification as required by § 260.42 of this chapter.
[59 FR 48041, Sept. 19, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 64758, Oct. 30, 2008; 80 FR 1772, Jan. 13, 2015]
§ 260.34
Standards and criteria for non-waste determinations.
(a) An applicant may apply to the Administrator for a formal determination that a hazardous secondary material is not discarded and therefore not a solid waste. The determinations will be based on the criteria contained in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable. If an application is denied, the hazardous secondary material might still be eligible for a solid waste variance or exclusion (for example, one of the solid waste variances under § 260.31). Determinations may also be granted by the State if the State is either authorized for this provision or if the following conditions are met:
(1) The State determines the hazardous secondary material meets the criteria in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable;
(2) The State requests that EPA review its determination; and
(3) EPA approves the State determination.
(b) The Administrator may grant a non-waste determination for hazardous secondary material which is reclaimed in a continuous industrial process if the applicant demonstrates that the hazardous secondary material is a part of the production process and is not discarded. The determination will be based on whether the hazardous secondary material is legitimately recycled as specified in § 260.43 and on the following criteria:
(1) The extent that the management of the hazardous secondary material is part of the continuous primary production process and is not waste treatment;
(2) Whether the capacity of the production process would use the hazardous secondary material in a reasonable time frame and ensure that the hazardous secondary material will not be abandoned (for example, based on
past practices, market factors, the nature of the hazardous secondary material, or any contractual arrangements);
(3) Whether the hazardous constituents in the hazardous secondary material are reclaimed rather than released to the air, water or land at significantly higher levels from either a statistical or from a health and environmental risk perspective than would otherwise be released by the production process; and
(4) Other relevant factors that demonstrate the hazardous secondary material is not discarded, including why the hazardous secondary material cannot meet, or should not have to meet, the conditions of an exclusion under § 261.2 or § 261.4 of this chapter.
(c) The Administrator may grant a non-waste determination for hazardous secondary material which is indistinguishable in all relevant aspects from a product or intermediate if the applicant demonstrates that the hazardous secondary material is comparable to a product or intermediate and is not discarded. The determination will be based on whether the hazardous secondary material is legitimately recycled as specified in § 260.43 and on the following criteria:
(1) Whether market participants treat the hazardous secondary material as a product or intermediate rather than a waste (for example, based on the current positive value of the hazardous secondary material, stability of demand, or any contractual arrangements);
(2) Whether the chemical and physical identity of the hazardous secondary material is comparable to commercial products or intermediates;
(3) Whether the capacity of the market would use the hazardous secondary material in a reasonable time frame and ensure that the hazardous secondary material will not be abandoned (for example, based on past practices, market factors, the nature of the hazardous secondary material, or any contractual arrangements);
(4) Whether the hazardous constituents in the hazardous secondary material are reclaimed rather than released to the air, water or land at significantly higher levels from either a statistical or from a health and environmental risk perspective than would otherwise be released by the production process; and
(5) Other relevant factors that demonstrate the hazardous secondary material is not discarded, including why the hazardous secondary material cannot meet, or should not have to meet, the conditions of an exclusion under § 261.2 or § 261.4 of this chapter.
[73 FR 64758, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 1772, Jan. 13, 2015]
§ 260.40
Additional regulation of certain hazardous waste recycling activities on a case-by-case basis.
(a) The Regional Administrator may decide on a case-by-case basis that persons accumulating or storing the ­­recyclable materials described in § 261.6(a)(2)(iii) of this chapter should be regulated under § 261.6 (b) and (c) of this chapter. The basis for this decision is that the materials are being accumulated or stored in a manner that does not protect human health and the environment because the materials or their toxic constituents have not been adequately contained, or because the materials being accumulated or stored together are incompatible. In making this decision, the Regional Administrator will consider the following factors:
(1) The types of materials accumulated or stored and the amounts accumulated or stored;
(2) The method of accumulation or storage;
(3) The length of time the materials have been accumulated or stored before being reclaimed;
(4) Whether any contaminants are being released into the environment, or are likely to be so released; and
(5) Other relevant factors.
(b) [Reserved]
The procedures for this decision are set forth in § 260.41 of this chapter.
[50 FR 662, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 40258, July 14, 2006]
§ 260.41
Procedures for case-by-case regulation of hazardous waste recycling activities.
The Regional Administrator will use the following procedures when determining whether to regulate hazardous waste recycling activities described in
§ 261.6(a)(2)(iii) under the provisions of § 261.6 (b) and (c), rather than under the provisions of subpart F of part 266 of this chapter.
(a) If a generator is accumulating the waste, the Regional Administrator will issue a notice setting forth the factual basis for the decision and stating that the person must comply with the applicable requirements of subparts A, C, D, and E of part 262 of this chapter. The notice will become final within 30 days, unless the person served requests a public hearing to challenge the decision. Upon receiving such a request, the Regional Administrator will hold a public hearing. The Regional Administrator will provide notice of the hearing to the public and allow public participation at the hearing. The Regional Administrator will issue a final order after the hearing stating whether or not compliance with part 262 is required. The order becomes effective 30 days after service of the decision unless the Regional Administrator specifies a later date or unless review by the Administrator is requested. The order may be appealed to the Administrator by any person who participated in the public hearing. The Administrator may choose to grant or to deny the appeal. Final Agency action occurs when a final order is issued and Agency review procedures are exhausted.
(b) If the person is accumulating the recyclable material as a storage facility, the notice will state that the person must obtain a permit in accordance with all applicable provisions of parts 270 and 124 of this chapter. The owner or operator of the facility must apply for a permit within no less than 60 days and no more than six months of notice, as specified in the notice. If the owner or operator of the facility wishes to challenge the Regional Administrator's decision, he may do so in his permit application, in a public hearing held on the draft permit, or in comments filed on the draft permit or on the notice of intent to deny the permit. The fact sheet accompanying the permit will specify the reasons for the Agency's determination. The question of whether the Regional Administrator's decision was proper will remain open for consideration during the public comment period discussed under § 124.11 of this chapter and in any subsequent hearing.
[50 FR 663, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 40258, July 14, 2006]
§ 260.42
Notification requirement for hazardous secondary materials.
(a) Facilities managing hazardous secondary materials under §§ 260.30, 261.4(a)(23), 261.4(a)(24), 261.4(a)(25), or 261.4(a)(27) must send a notification prior to operating under the regulatory provision and by March 1 of each even-numbered year thereafter to the Regional Administrator using EPA Form 8700-12 that includes the following information:
(1) The name, address, and EPA ID number (if applicable) of the facility;
(2) The name and telephone number of a contact person;
(3) The NAICS code of the facility;
(4) The regulation under which the hazardous secondary materials will be managed;
(5) For reclaimers and intermediate facilities managing hazardous secondary materials in accordance with § 261.4(a)(24) or (25), whether the reclaimer or intermediate facility has financial assurance (not applicable for persons managing hazardous secondary materials generated and reclaimed under the control of the generator);
(6) When the facility began or expects to begin managing the hazardous secondary materials in accordance with the regulation;
(7) A list of hazardous secondary materials that will be managed according to the regulation (reported as the EPA hazardous waste numbers that would apply if the hazardous secondary materials were managed as hazardous wastes);
(8) For each hazardous secondary material, whether the hazardous secondary material, or any portion thereof, will be managed in a land-based unit;
(9) The quantity of each hazardous secondary material to be managed annually; and
(10) The certification (included in EPA Form 8700-12) signed and dated by an authorized representative of the facility.
(b) If a facility managing hazardous secondary materials has submitted a
notification, but then subsequently stops managing hazardous secondary materials in accordance with the regulation(s) listed above, the facility must notify the Regional Administrator within thirty (30) days using EPA Form 8700-12. For purposes of this section, a facility has stopped managing hazardous secondary materials if the facility no longer generates, manages and/or reclaims hazardous secondary materials under the regulation(s) above and does not expect to manage any amount of hazardous secondary materials for at least 1 year.
[73 FR 64759, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 1772, Jan. 13, 2015; 83 FR 24667, May 30, 2018]
§ 260.43
Legitimate recycling of hazardous secondary materials.
(a) Recycling of hazardous secondary materials for the purpose of the exclusions or exemptions from the hazardous waste regulations must be legitimate. Hazardous secondary material that is not legitimately recycled is discarded material and is a solid waste. In determining if their recycling is legitimate, persons must address all the requirements of this paragraph and must consider the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Legitimate recycling must involve a hazardous secondary material that provides a useful contribution to the recycling process or to a product or intermediate of the recycling process. The hazardous secondary material provides a useful contribution if it:
(i) Contributes valuable ingredients to a product or intermediate; or
(ii) Replaces a catalyst or carrier in the recycling process; or
(iii) Is the source of a valuable constituent recovered in the recycling process; or
(iv) Is recovered or regenerated by the recycling process; or
(v) Is used as an effective substitute for a commercial product.
(2) The recycling process must produce a valuable product or intermediate. The product or intermediate is valuable if it is:
(i) Sold to a third party; or
(ii) Used by the recycler or the generator as an effective substitute for a commercial product or as an ingredient or intermediate in an industrial process.
(3) The generator and the recycler must manage the hazardous secondary material as a valuable commodity when it is under their control. Where there is an analogous raw material, the hazardous secondary material must be managed, at a minimum, in a manner consistent with the management of the raw material or in an equally protective manner. Where there is no analogous raw material, the hazardous secondary material must be contained. Hazardous secondary materials that are released to the environment and are not recovered immediately are discarded.
(b) The following factor must be considered in making a determination as to the overall legitimacy of a specific recycling activity.
(1) The product of the recycling process does not:
(i) Contain significant concentrations of any hazardous constituents found in appendix VIII of part 261 that are not found in analogous products; or
(ii) Contain concentrations of hazardous constituents found in appendix VIII of part 261 at levels that are significantly elevated from those found in analogous products, or
(iii) Exhibit a hazardous characteristic (as defined in part 261 subpart C) that analogous products do not exhibit.
(2) In making a determination that a hazardous secondary material is legitimately recycled, persons must evaluate all factors and consider legitimacy as a whole. If, after careful evaluation of these considerations, the factor in this paragraph is not met, then this fact may be an indication that the material is not legitimately recycled. However, the factor in this paragraph does not have to be met for the recycling to be considered legitimate. In evaluating the extent to which this factor is met and in determining whether a process that does not meet this factor is still legitimate, persons can consider exposure from toxics in the product, the bioavailability of the toxics in the product and other relevant considerations.
(c) [Reserved]
[73 FR 64759, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 1772, Jan. 13, 2015; 83 FR 24667, May 30, 2018]
Pt. 261

# PART 261—IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
261.1
Purpose and scope.
261.2
Definition of solid waste.
261.3
Definition of hazardous waste.
261.4
Exclusions.
261.5
[Reserved]
261.6
Requirements for recyclable materials.
261.7
Residues of hazardous waste in empty containers.
261.8
PCB wastes regulated under Toxic Substance Control Act.
261.9
Requirements for Universal Waste.

# Subpart B—Manifest Requirements Applicable to Small and Large Quantity Generators
261.10
Criteria for identifying the characteristics of hazardous waste.
261.11
Criteria for listing hazardous waste.

# Subpart C—Characteristics of Hazardous Waste
261.20
General.
261.21
Characteristic of ignitability.
261.22
Characteristic of corrosivity.
261.23
Characteristic of reactivity.
261.24
Toxicity characteristic.

# Subpart D—Lists of Hazardous Wastes
261.30
General.
261.31
Hazardous wastes from non-specific sources.
261.32
Hazardous wastes from specific sources.
261.33
Discarded commercial chemical products, off-specification species, container residues, and spill residues thereof.
261.35
Deletion of certain hazardous waste codes following equipment cleaning and replacement.

# Subpart E—Exclusions/Exemptions
261.38
[Reserved]
261.39
Conditional Exclusion for Used, Broken Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) and Processed CRT Glass Undergoing Recycling.
261.40
Conditional Exclusion for Used, Intact Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) Exported for Recycling.
261.41
Notification and Recordkeeping for Used, Intact Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) Exported for Reuse.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Financial Requirements for Management of Excluded Hazardous Secondary Materials
261.140
Applicability.
261.141
Definitions of terms as used in this subpart.
261.142
Cost estimate.
261.143
Financial assurance condition.
261.144-261.146
[Reserved]
261.147
Liability requirements.
261.148
Incapacity of owners or operators, guarantors, or financial institutions.
261.149
Use of State-required mechanisms.
261.150
State assumption of responsibility.
261.151
Wording of the instruments.

# Subpart I—Use and Management of Containers
261.170
Applicability.
261.171
Condition of containers.
261.172
Compatibility of hazardous secondary materials with containers.
261.173
Management of containers.
261.175
Containment.
261.176
Special requirements for ignitable or reactive hazardous secondary material.
261.177
Special requirements for incompatible materials.
261.179
Air emission standards.

# Subpart J—Tank Systems
261.190
Applicability.
261.191
Assessment of existing tank system's integrity.
261.192
[Reserved]
261.193
Containment and detection of releases.
261.194
General operating requirements.
261.195
[Reserved]
261.196
Response to leaks or spills and disposition of leaking or unfit-for-use tank systems.
261.197
Termination of remanufacturing exclusion.
261.198
Special requirements for ignitable or reactive materials.
261.199
Special requirements for incompatible materials.
261.200
Air emission standards.
Subparts K-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Emergency Preparedness and Response for Management of Excluded Hazardous Secondary Materials
261.400
Applicability.
261.410
Preparedness and prevention
261.411
Emergency procedures for facilities generating or accumulating of 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material.
261.420
Contingency planning and emergency procedures for facilities generating or accumulating more than 6,000 kg of hazardous secondary material or receiving ignitable spent refrigerants.
Subparts N-Z [Reserved]

# Subpart AA—Air Emission Standards for Process Vents
261.1030
Applicability.
261.1031
Definitions.
261.1032
Standards: Process vents.
261.1033
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
261.1034
Test methods and procedures.
261.1035
Recordkeeping requirements.
261.1036-261.1049
[Reserved]

# Subpart BB—Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks
261.1050
Applicability.
261.1051
Definitions.
261.1052
Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
261.1053
Standards: Compressors.
261.1054
Standards: Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.
261.1055
Standards: Sampling connection systems.
261.1056
Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.
261.1057
Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
261.1058
Standards: Pumps and valves in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and flanges and other connectors.
261.1059
Standards: Delay of repair.
261.1060
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
261.1061
Alternative standards for valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service: percentage of valves allowed to leak.
261.1062
Alternative standards for valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service: skip period leak detection and repair.
261.1063
Test methods and procedures.
261.1064
Recordkeeping requirements.
261.1065-261.1079
[Reserved]

# Subpart CC—Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
261.1080
Applicability.
261.1081
Definitions.
261.1082
Standards: General.
261.1083
Material determination procedures.
261.1084
Standards: Tanks.
261.1085
[Reserved]
261.1086
Standards: Containers.
261.1087
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
261.1088
Inspection and monitoring requirements.
261.1089
Recordkeeping requirements.
261.1090
[Reserved]
Appendix I to Part 261—Representative Sampling Methods
Appendixes II-III to Part 261 [Reserved]
Appendix IV to Part 261 [Reserved for Radioactive Waste Test Methods]
Appendix V to Part 261 [Reserved for Infectious Waste Treatment Specifications]
Appendix VI to Part 261 [Reserved for Etiologic Agents]
Appendix VII to Part 261—Basis for Listing Hazardous Waste
Appendix VIII to Part 261—Hazardous Constituents
Appendix IX to Part 261—Wastes Excluded Under §§ 260.20 and 260.22

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912(a), 6921, 6922, 6924(y) and 6938.

# Source:
45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 261.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part identifies those solid wastes which are subject to regulation as hazardous wastes under parts 262 through 265, 268, and parts 270, 271, and 124 of this chapter and which are subject to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA. In this part:
(1) Subpart A defines the terms “solid waste” and “hazardous waste”, identifies those wastes which are excluded from regulation under parts 262 through 266, 268, and 270 of this subchapter and establishes special management requirements for hazardous waste which is recycled.
(2) Subpart B sets forth the criteria used by EPA to identify characteristics of hazardous waste and to list particular hazardous wastes.
(3) Subpart C identifies characteristics of hazardous waste.
(4) Subpart D lists particular hazardous wastes.
(b)(1) The definition of solid waste contained in this part applies only to wastes that also are hazardous for purposes of the regulations implementing subtitle C of RCRA. For example, it does not apply to materials (such as non-hazardous scrap, paper, textiles, or
rubber) that are not otherwise hazardous wastes and that are recycled.
(2) This part identifies only some of the materials which are solid wastes and hazardous wastes under sections 3007, 3013, and 7003 of RCRA. A material which is not defined as a solid waste in this part, or is not a hazardous waste identified or listed in this part, is still a solid waste and a hazardous waste for purposes of these sections if:
(i) In the case of sections 3007 and 3013, EPA has reason to believe that the material may be a solid waste within the meaning of section 1004(27) of RCRA and a hazardous waste within the meaning of section 1004(5) of RCRA; or
(ii) In the case of section 7003, the statutory elements are established.
(c) For the purposes of §§ 261.2 and 261.6:
(1) A “spent material” is any material that has been used and as a result of contamination can no longer serve the purpose for which it was produced without processing;
(2) “Sludge” has the same meaning used in § 260.10 of this chapter;
(3) A “by-product” is a material that is not one of the primary products of a production process and is not solely or separately produced by the production process. Examples are process residues such as slags or distillation column bottoms. The term does not include a co-product that is produced for the general public's use and is ordinarily used in the form it is produced by the process.
(4) A material is “reclaimed” if it is processed to recover a usable product, or if it is regenerated. Examples are recovery of lead values from spent batteries and regeneration of spent solvents. In addition, for purposes of § 261.4(a)(23) and (24), smelting, melting, and refining furnaces are considered to be solely engaged in metals reclamation if the metal recovery from the hazardous secondary materials meets the same requirements as those specified for metals recovery from hazardous waste found in § 266.100(d)(1) through (3) of this chapter, and if the residuals meet the requirements specified in § 266.112 of this chapter.
(5) A material is “used or reused” if it is either:
(i) Employed as an ingredient (including use as an intermediate) in an industrial process to make a product (for example, distillation bottoms from one process used as feedstock in another process). However, a material will not satisfy this condition if distinct components of the material are recovered as separate end products (as when metals are recovered from metal-containing secondary materials); or
(ii) Employed in a particular function or application as an effective substitute for a commercial product (for example, spent pickle liquor used as phosphorous precipitant and sludge conditioner in wastewater treatment).
(6) “Scrap metal” is bits and pieces of metal parts (
e.g.,
bars, turnings, rods, sheets, wire) or metal pieces that may be combined together with bolts or soldering (
e.g.,
radiators, scrap automobiles, railroad box cars), which when worn or superfluous can be recycled.
(7) A material is “recycled” if it is used, reused, or reclaimed.
(8) A material is “accumulated speculatively” if it is accumulated before being recycled. A material is not accumulated speculatively, however, if the person accumulating it can show that the material is potentially recyclable and has a feasible means of being recycled; and that—during the calendar year (commencing on January 1)—the amount of material that is recycled, or transferred to a different site for recycling, equals at least 75 percent by weight or volume of the amount of that material accumulated at the beginning of the period. Materials must be placed in a storage unit with a label indicating the first date that the material began to be accumulated. If placing a label on the storage unit is not practicable, the accumulation period must be documented through an inventory log or other appropriate method. In calculating the percentage of turnover, the 75 percent requirement is to be applied to each material of the same type (
e.g.,
slags from a single smelting process) that is recycled in the same way (
i.e.,
from which the same material is recovered or that is used in the same way). Materials accumulating in units that would be exempt from regulation under § 261.4(c) are not to be included in making the calculation. Materials that
are already defined as solid wastes also are not to be included in making the calculation. Materials are no longer in this category once they are removed from accumulation for recycling, however.
(9) “Excluded scrap metal” is processed scrap metal, unprocessed home scrap metal, and unprocessed prompt scrap metal.
(10) “Processed scrap metal” is scrap metal which has been manually or physically altered to either separate it into distinct materials to enhance economic value or to improve the handling of materials. Processed scrap metal includes, but is not limited to scrap metal which has been baled, shredded, sheared, chopped, crushed, flattened, cut, melted, or separated by metal type (i.e., sorted), and, fines, drosses and related materials which have been agglomerated. (Note: shredded circuit boards being sent for recycling are not considered processed scrap metal. They are covered under the exclusion from the definition of solid waste for shredded circuit boards being recycled (§ 261.4(a)(14)).
(11) “Home scrap metal” is scrap metal as generated by steel mills, foundries, and refineries such as turnings, cuttings, punchings, and borings.
(12) “Prompt scrap metal” is scrap metal as generated by the metal working/fabrication industries and includes such scrap metal as turnings, cuttings, punchings, and borings. Prompt scrap is also known as industrial or new scrap metal.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983; 50 FR 663, Jan. 4, 1985; 51 FR 10174, Mar. 24, 1986; 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986; 62 FR 26018, May 12, 1997; 73 FR 64760, Oct. 30, 2008; 75 FR 13001, Mar. 18, 2010; 80 FR 1773, Jan. 13, 2015; 81 FR 85806, Nov. 28, 2016; 88 FR 54100, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.2
Definition of solid waste.
(a)(1) A
solid waste
is any discarded material that is not excluded under § 261.4(a) or that is not excluded by a variance granted under §§ 260.30 and 260.31 or that is not excluded by a non-waste determination under §§ 260.30 and 260.34.
(2)(i) A
discarded material
is any material which is:
(A) Abandoned, as explained in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(B) Recycled, as explained in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(C) Considered inherently waste-like, as explained in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(D) A military munition identified as a solid waste in § 266.202.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b) Materials are solid waste if they are
abandoned
by being:
(1) Disposed of; or
(2) Burned or incinerated; or
(3) Accumulated, stored, or treated (but not recycled) before or in lieu of being abandoned by being disposed of, burned or incinerated; or
(4) Sham recycled, as explained in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c) Materials are solid wastes if they are
recycled
—or accumulated, stored, or treated before recycling—as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1)
Used in a manner constituting disposal.
(i) Materials noted with a “*” in Column 1 of Table 1 are solid wastes when they are:
(A) Applied to or placed on the land in a manner that constitutes disposal; or
(B) Used to produce products that are applied to or placed on the land or are otherwise contained in products that are applied to or placed on the land (in which cases the product itself remains a solid waste).
(ii) However, commercial chemical products listed in § 261.33 are not solid wastes if they are applied to the land and that is their ordinary manner of use.
(2)
Burning for energy recovery.
(i) Materials noted with a “*” in column 2 of Table 1 are solid wastes when they are:
(A) Burned to recover energy;
(B) Used to produce a fuel or are otherwise contained in fuels (in which cases the fuel itself remains a solid waste).
(ii) However, commercial chemical products listed in § 261.33 are not solid wastes if they are themselves fuels.
(3)
Reclaimed.
Materials noted with a “-” in column 3 of Table 1 are not solid wastes when reclaimed. Materials noted with an “*” in column 3 of Table
1 are solid wastes when reclaimed unless they meet the requirements of §§ 261.4(a)(17), or 261.4(a)(23), 261.4(a)(24), or 261.4(a)(27).
(4)
Accumulated speculatively.
Materials noted with a “*” in column 4 of Table 1 are solid wastes when accumulated speculatively.
Table 1
Use
constituting
disposal (§ 261.2(c)(1))
Energy
recovery/fuel (§ 261.2(c)(2))
Reclamation (§ 261.2(c)(3)), except as
provided in §§ 261.4(a)(17), 261.4(a)(23), 261.4(a)(24) or 261.4(a)(27)
Speculative accumulation (§ 261.2(c)(4))
1
2
3
4
Spent Materials
(*)
(*)
(*)
(*)
Sludges (listed in 40 CFR Part 261.31 or 261.32)
(*)
(*)
(*)
(*)
Sludges exhibiting a characteristic of hazardous waste
(*)
(*)
-
(*)
By-products (listed in 40 CFR 261.31 or 261.32)
(*)
(*)
(*)
(*)
By-products exhibiting a characteristic of hazardous waste
(*)
(*)
-
(*)
Commercial chemical products listed in 40 CFR 261.33
(*)
(*)
-
-
Scrap metal that is not excluded under 40 CFR 261.4(a)(13)
(*)
(*)
(*)
(*)
Note:
The terms “spent materials,” “sludges,” “by-products,” and “scrap metal” and “processed scrap metal” are defined in § 261.1.
(d)
Inherently waste-like materials.
The following materials are solid wastes when they are recycled in any manner:
(1) Hazardous Waste Nos. F020, F021 (unless used as an ingredient to make a product at the site of generation), F022, F023, F026, and F028.
(2) Secondary materials fed to a halogen acid furnace that exhibit a characteristic of a hazardous waste or are listed as a hazardous waste as defined in subparts C or D of this part, except for brominated material that meets the following criteria:
(i) The material must contain a bromine concentration of at least 45%; and
(ii) The material must contain less than a total of 1% of toxic organic compounds listed in appendix VIII; and
(iii) The material is processed continually on-site in the halogen acid furnace via direct conveyance (hard piping).
(3) The Administrator will use the following criteria to add wastes to that list:
(i)(A) The materials are ordinarily disposed of, burned, or incinerated; or
(B) The materials contain toxic constituents listed in appendix VIII of part 261 and these constituents are not ordinarily found in raw materials or products for which the materials substitute (or are found in raw materials or products in smaller concentrations) and are not used or reused during the recycling process; and
(ii) The material may pose a substantial hazard to human health and the environment when recycled.
(e)
Materials that are not solid waste when recycled.
(1) Materials are not solid wastes when they can be shown to be recycled by being:
(i) Used or reused as ingredients in an industrial process to make a product, provided the materials are not being reclaimed; or
(ii) Used or reused as effective substitutes for commercial products; or
(iii) Returned to the original process from which they are generated, without first being reclaimed or land disposed. The material must be returned as a substitute for feedstock materials. In cases where the original process to which the material is returned is a secondary process, the materials must be managed such that there is no placement on the land. In cases where the materials are generated and reclaimed within the primary mineral processing industry, the conditions of the exclusion found at § 261.4(a)(17) apply rather than this paragraph.
(2) The following materials are solid wastes, even if the recycling involves use, reuse, or return to the original process (described in paragraphs (e)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section):
(i) Materials used in a manner constituting disposal, or used to produce products that are applied to the land; or
(ii) Materials burned for energy recovery, used to produce a fuel, or contained in fuels; or
(iii) Materials accumulated speculatively; or
(iv) Materials listed in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(f)
Documentation of claims that materials are not solid wastes or are conditionally exempt from regulation.
Respondents in actions to enforce regulations implementing subtitle C of RCRA who raise a claim that a certain material is not a solid waste, or is conditionally exempt from regulation, must demonstrate that there is a known market or disposition for the material, and that they meet the terms of the exclusion or exemption. In doing so, they must provide appropriate documentation (such as contracts showing that a second person uses the material as an ingredient in a production process) to demonstrate that the material is not a waste, or is exempt from regulation. In addition, owners or operators of facilities claiming that they actually are recycling materials must show that they have the necessary equipment to do so.
(g)
Sham recycling.
A hazardous secondary material found to be sham recycled is considered discarded and a solid waste. Sham recycling is recycling that is not legitimate recycling as defined in § 260.43.
[50 FR 664, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 33542, Aug. 20, 1985; 56 FR 7206, Feb. 21, 1991; 56 FR 32688, July 17, 1991; 56 FR 42512, Aug. 27, 1991; 57 FR 38564, Aug. 25, 1992; 59 FR 48042, Sept. 19, 1994; 62 FR 6651, Feb. 12, 1997; 62 FR 26019, May 12, 1997; 63 FR 28636, May 26, 1998; 64 FR 24513, May 11, 1999; 67 FR 11253, Mar. 13, 2002; 71 FR 40258, July 14, 2006; 73 FR 64760, Oct. 30, 2008; 75 FR 13001, Mar. 18, 2010; 80 FR 1774, Jan. 13, 2015]
§ 261.3
Definition of hazardous waste.
(a) A solid waste, as defined in § 261.2, is a hazardous waste if:
(1) It is not excluded from regulation as a hazardous waste under § 261.4(b); and
(2) It meets any of the following criteria:
(i) It exhibits any of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in subpart C of this part. However, any mixture of a waste from the extraction, beneficiation, and processing of ores and minerals excluded under § 261.4(b)(7) and any other solid waste exhibiting a characteristic of hazardous waste under subpart C is a hazardous waste only if it exhibits a characteristic that would not have been exhibited by the excluded waste alone if such mixture had not occurred, or if it continues to exhibit any of the characteristics exhibited by the non-excluded wastes prior to mixture. Further, for the purposes of applying the Toxicity Characteristic to such mixtures, the mixture is also a hazardous waste if it exceeds the maximum concentration for any contaminant listed in table 1 to § 261.24 that would not have been exceeded by the excluded waste alone if the mixture had not occurred or if it continues to exceed the maximum concentration for any contaminant exceeded by the nonexempt waste prior to mixture.
(ii) It is listed in subpart D of this part and has not been excluded from the lists in subpart D of this part under §§ 260.20 and 260.22 of this chapter.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) It is a mixture of solid waste and one or more hazardous wastes listed in subpart D of this part and has not been excluded from paragraph (a)(2) of this section under §§ 260.20 and 260.22, paragraph (g) of this section, or paragraph (h) of this section; however, the following mixtures of solid wastes and hazardous wastes listed in subpart D of this part are not hazardous wastes (except by application of paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section) if the generator can demonstrate that the mixture consists of wastewater the discharge of which is subject to regulation under either section 402 or section 307(b) of the Clean Water Act (including wastewater at facilities which have eliminated the discharge of wastewater) and;
(A) One or more of the following spent solvents listed in § 261.31—benzene, carbon tetrachloride, tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene or the scrubber waters derived-from the combustion of these spent solvents—
Provided,
That the maximum total weekly usage of these solvents
(other than the amounts that can be demonstrated not to be discharged to wastewater) divided by the average weekly flow of wastewater into the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment or pretreatment system does not exceed 1 part per million, OR the total measured concentration of these solvents entering the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system (at facilities subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, as amended, at 40 CFR parts 60, 61, or 63, or at facilities subject to an enforceable limit in a federal operating permit that minimizes fugitive emissions), does not exceed 1 part per million on an average weekly basis. Any facility that uses benzene as a solvent and claims this exemption must use an aerated biological wastewater treatment system and must use only lined surface impoundments or tanks prior to secondary clarification in the wastewater treatment system. Facilities that choose to measure concentration levels must file a copy of their sampling and analysis plan with the Regional Administrator, or State Director, as the context requires, or an authorized representative (“Director” as defined in 40 CFR 270.2). A facility must file a copy of a revised sampling and analysis plan only if the initial plan is rendered inaccurate by changes in the facility's operations. The sampling and analysis plan must include the monitoring point location (headworks), the sampling frequency and methodology, and a list of constituents to be monitored. A facility is eligible for the direct monitoring option once they receive confirmation that the sampling and analysis plan has been received by the Director. The Director may reject the sampling and analysis plan if he/she finds that, the sampling and analysis plan fails to include the above information; or the plan parameters would not enable the facility to calculate the weekly average concentration of these chemicals accurately. If the Director rejects the sampling and analysis plan or if the Director finds that the facility is not following the sampling and analysis plan, the Director shall notify the facility to cease the use of the direct monitoring option until such time as the bases for rejection are corrected; or
(B) One or more of the following spent solvents listed in § 261.31-methylene chloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, chlorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene, cresols, cresylic acid, nitrobenzene, toluene, methyl ethyl ketone, carbon disulfide, isobutanol, pyridine, spent chlorofluorocarbon solvents, 2-ethoxyethanol, or the scrubber waters derived-from the combustion of these spent solvents—
Provided
That the maximum total weekly usage of these solvents (other than the amounts that can be demonstrated not to be discharged to wastewater) divided by the average weekly flow of wastewater into the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment or pretreatment system does not exceed 25 parts per million, OR the total measured concentration of these solvents entering the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system (at facilities subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act as amended, at 40 CFR parts 60, 61, or 63, or at facilities subject to an enforceable limit in a federal operating permit that minimizes fugitive emissions), does not exceed 25 parts per million on an average weekly basis. Facilities that choose to measure concentration levels must file a copy of their sampling and analysis plan with the Regional Administrator, or State Director, as the context requires, or an authorized representative (“Director” as defined in 40 CFR 270.2). A facility must file a copy of a revised sampling and analysis plan only if the initial plan is rendered inaccurate by changes in the facility's operations. The sampling and analysis plan must include the monitoring point location (headworks), the sampling frequency and methodology, and a list of constituents to be monitored. A facility is eligible for the direct monitoring option once they receive confirmation that the sampling and analysis plan has been received by the Director. The Director may reject the sampling and analysis plan if he/she finds that, the sampling and analysis plan fails to include the above information; or the plan parameters would not enable the facility to calculate the weekly average concentration of these chemicals accurately. If the Director rejects the
sampling and analysis plan or if the Director finds that the facility is not following the sampling and analysis plan, the Director shall notify the facility to cease the use of the direct monitoring option until such time as the bases for rejection are corrected; or
(C) One of the following wastes listed in § 261.32, provided that the wastes are discharged to the refinery oil recovery sewer before primary oil/water/solids separation—heat exchanger bundle cleaning sludge from the petroleum refining industry (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K050), crude oil storage tank sediment from petroleum refining operations (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K169), clarified slurry oil tank sediment and/or in-line filter/separation solids from petroleum refining operations (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K170), spent hydrotreating catalyst (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K171), and spent hydrorefining catalyst (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K172); or
(D) A discarded hazardous waste, commercial chemical product, or chemical intermediate listed in §§ 261.31 through 261.33, arising from
de minimis
losses of these materials. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(D),
de minimis
losses are inadvertent releases to a wastewater treatment system, including those from normal material handling operations (e.g., spills from the unloading or transfer of materials from bins or other containers, leaks from pipes, valves or other devices used to transfer materials); minor leaks of process equipment, storage tanks or containers; leaks from well maintained pump packings and seals; sample purgings; relief device discharges; discharges from safety showers and rinsing and cleaning of personal safety equipment; and rinsate from empty containers or from containers that are rendered empty by that rinsing. Any manufacturing facility that claims an exemption for
de minimis
quantities of wastes listed in §§ 261.31 through 261.32, or any nonmanufacturing facility that claims an exemption for
de minimis
quantities of wastes listed in subpart D of this part must either have eliminated the discharge of wastewaters or have included in its Clean Water Act permit application or submission to its pretreatment control authority the constituents for which each waste was listed (in 40 CFR 261 appendix VII) of this part; and the constituents in the table “Treatment Standards for Hazardous Wastes” in 40 CFR 268.40 for which each waste has a treatment standard (
i.e.
, Land Disposal Restriction constituents). A facility is eligible to claim the exemption once the permit writer or control authority has been notified of possible
de minimis
releases via the Clean Water Act permit application or the pretreatment control authority submission. A copy of the Clean Water permit application or the submission to the pretreatment control authority must be placed in the facility's on-site files; or
(E) Wastewater resulting from laboratory operations containing toxic (T) wastes listed in subpart D of this part, Provided, That the annualized average flow of laboratory wastewater does not exceed one percent of total wastewater flow into the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment or pre-treatment system or provided the wastes, combined annualized average concentration does not exceed one part per million in the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment or pre-treatment facility. Toxic (T) wastes used in laboratories that are demonstrated not to be discharged to wastewater are not to be included in this calculation; or
(F) One or more of the following wastes listed in § 261.32—wastewaters from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K157)—
Provided
that the maximum weekly usage of formaldehyde, methyl chloride, methylene chloride, and triethylamine (including all amounts that cannot be demonstrated to be reacted in the process, destroyed through treatment, or is recovered,
i.e.
, what is discharged or volatilized) divided by the average weekly flow of process wastewater prior to any dilution into the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system does not exceed a total of 5 parts per million by weight OR the total measured concentration of these chemicals entering the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system (at facilities subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act as amended, at 40 CFR parts 60,
61, or 63, or at facilities subject to an enforceable limit in a federal operating permit that minimizes fugitive emissions), does not exceed 5 parts per million on an average weekly basis. Facilities that choose to measure concentration levels must file copy of their sampling and analysis plan with the Regional Administrator, or State Director, as the context requires, or an authorized representative (“Director” as defined in 40 CFR 270.2). A facility must file a copy of a revised sampling and analysis plan only if the initial plan is rendered inaccurate by changes in the facility's operations. The sampling and analysis plan must include the monitoring point location (headworks), the sampling frequency and methodology, and a list of constituents to be monitored. A facility is eligible for the direct monitoring option once they receive confirmation that the sampling and analysis plan has been received by the Director. The Director may reject the sampling and analysis plan if he/she finds that, the sampling and analysis plan fails to include the above information; or the plan parameters would not enable the facility to calculate the weekly average concentration of these chemicals accurately. If the Director rejects the sampling and analysis plan or if the Director finds that the facility is not following the sampling and analysis plan, the Director shall notify the facility to cease the use of the direct monitoring option until such time as the bases for rejection are corrected; or
(G) Wastewaters derived-from the treatment of one or more of the following wastes listed in § 261.32—organic waste (including heavy ends, still bottoms, light ends, spent solvents, filtrates, and decantates) from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K156).—
Provided,
that the maximum concentration of formaldehyde, methyl chloride, methylene chloride, and triethylamine prior to any dilutions into the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system does not exceed a total of 5 milligrams per liter OR the total measured concentration of these chemicals entering the headworks of the facility's wastewater treatment system (at facilities subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act as amended, at 40 CFR parts 60, 61, or 63, or at facilities subject to an enforceable limit in a federal operating permit that minimizes fugitive emissions), does not exceed 5 milligrams per liter on an average weekly basis. Facilities that choose to measure concentration levels must file copy of their sampling and analysis plan with the Regional Administrator, or State Director, as the context requires, or an authorized representative (“Director” as defined in 40 CFR 270.2). A facility must file a copy of a revised sampling and analysis plan only if the initial plan is rendered inaccurate by changes in the facility's operations. The sampling and analysis plan must include the monitoring point location (headworks), the sampling frequency and methodology, and a list of constituents to be monitored. A facility is eligible for the direct monitoring option once they receive confirmation that the sampling and analysis plan has been received by the Director. The Director may reject the sampling and analysis plan if he/she finds that, the sampling and analysis plan fails to include the above information; or the plan parameters would not enable the facility to calculate the weekly average concentration of these chemicals accurately. If the Director rejects the sampling and analysis plan or if the Director finds that the facility is not following the sampling and analysis plan, the Director shall notify the facility to cease the use of the direct monitoring option until such time as the bases for rejection are corrected.
(v)
Rebuttable presumption for used oil.
Used oil containing more than 1000 ppm total halogens is presumed to be a hazardous waste because it has been mixed with halogenated hazardous waste listed in subpart D of part 261 of this chapter. Persons may rebut this presumption by demonstrating that the used oil does not contain hazardous waste (for example, to show that the used oil does not contain significant concentrations of halogenated hazardous constituents listed in appendix VIII of part 261 of this chapter).
(A) The rebuttable presumption does not apply to metalworking oils/fluids containing chlorinated paraffins, if
they are processed, through a tolling agreement, to reclaim metalworking oils/fluids. The presumption does apply to metalworking oils/fluids if such oils/fluids are recycled in any other manner, or disposed.
(B) The rebuttable presumption does not apply to used oils contaminated with chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) removed from refrigeration units where the CFCs are destined for reclamation. The rebuttable presumption does apply to used oils contaminated with CFCs that have been mixed with used oil from sources other than refrigeration units.
(b) A solid waste which is not excluded from regulation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section becomes a hazardous waste when any of the following events occur:
(1) In the case of a waste listed in subpart D of this part, when the waste first meets the listing description set forth in subpart D of this part.
(2) In the case of a mixture of solid waste and one or more listed hazardous wastes, when a hazardous waste listed in subpart D is first added to the solid waste.
(3) In the case of any other waste (including a waste mixture), when the waste exhibits any of the characteristics identified in subpart C of this part.
(c) Unless and until it meets the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section:
(1) A hazardous waste will remain a hazardous waste.
(2)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii), (g) or (h) of this section, any solid waste generated from the treatment, storage, or disposal of a hazardous waste, including any sludge, spill residue, ash emission control dust, or leachate (but not including precipitation run-off) is a hazardous waste. (However, materials that are reclaimed from solid wastes and that are used beneficially are not solid wastes and hence are not hazardous wastes under this provision unless the reclaimed material is burned for energy recovery or used in a manner constituting disposal.)
(ii) The following solid wastes are not hazardous even though they are generated from the treatment, storage, or disposal of a hazardous waste, unless they exhibit one or more of the characteristics of hazardous waste:
(A) Waste pickle liquor sludge generated by lime stabilization of spent pickle liquor from the iron and steel industry (SIC Codes 331 and 332).
(B) Waste from burning any of the materials exempted from regulation by § 261.6(a)(3)(iii) and (iv).
(C)(
1
) Nonwastewater residues, such as slag, resulting from high temperature metals recovery (HTMR) processing of K061, K062 or F006 waste, in units identified as rotary kilns, flame reactors, electric furnaces, plasma arc furnaces, slag reactors, rotary hearth furnace/electric furnace combinations or industrial furnaces (as defined in paragraphs (6), (7), and (13) of the definition for “Industrial furnace” in 40 CFR 260.10), that are disposed in subtitle D units, provided that these residues meet the generic exclusion levels identified in the tables in this paragraph for all constituents, and exhibit no characteristics of hazardous waste. Testing requirements must be incorporated in a facility's waste analysis plan or a generator's self-implementing waste analysis plan; at a minimum, composite samples of residues must be collected and analyzed quarterly and/or when the process or operation generating the waste changes. Persons claiming this exclusion in an enforcement action will have the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the material meets all of the exclusion requirements.
Constituent
Maximum for any single composite sample—TCLP (mg/l)
Generic exclusion levels for K061 and K062 nonwastewater HTMR residues
Antimony
0.10
Arsenic
0.50
Barium
7.6
Beryllium
0.010
Cadmium
0.050
Chromium (total)
0.33
Lead
0.15
Mercury
0.009
Nickel
1.0
Selenium
0.16
Silver
0.30
Thallium
0.020
Zinc
70
Generic exclusion levels for F006 nonwastewater HTMR residues
Antimony
0.10
Arsenic
0.50
Barium
7.6
Beryllium
0.010
Cadmium
0.050
Chromium (total)
0.33
Cyanide (total) (mg/kg)
1.8
Lead
0.15
Mercury
0.009
Nickel
1.0
Selenium
0.16
Silver
0.30
Thallium
0.020
Zinc
70
(
2
) A one-time notification and certification must be placed in the facility's files and sent to the EPA region or authorized state for K061, K062 or F006 HTMR residues that meet the generic exclusion levels for all constituents and do not exhibit any characteristics that are sent to subtitle D units. The notification and certification that is placed in the generators or treaters files must be updated if the process or operation generating the waste changes and/or if the subtitle D unit receiving the waste changes. However, the generator or treater need only notify the EPA region or an authorized state on an annual basis if such changes occur. Such notification and certification should be sent to the EPA region or authorized state by the end of the calendar year, but no later than December 31. The notification must include the following information: The name and address of the subtitle D unit receiving the waste shipments; the EPA Hazardous Waste Number(s) and treatability group(s) at the initial point of generation; and, the treatment standards applicable to the waste at the initial point of generation. The certification must be signed by an authorized representative and must state as follows: “I certify under penalty of law that the generic exclusion levels for all constituents have been met without impermissible dilution and that no characteristic of hazardous waste is exhibited. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”
(D) Biological treatment sludge from the treatment of one of the following wastes listed in § 261.32—organic waste (including heavy ends, still bottoms, light ends, spent solvents, filtrates, and decantates) from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K156), and wastewaters from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K157).
(E) Catalyst inert support media separated from one of the following wastes listed in § 261.32—Spent hydrotreating catalyst (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K171), and Spent hydrorefining catalyst (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K172).
(d) Any solid waste described in paragraph (c) of this section is not a hazardous waste if it meets the following criteria:
(1) In the case of any solid waste, it does not exhibit any of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in subpart C of this part. (However, wastes that exhibit a characteristic at the point of generation may still be subject to the requirements of part 268, even if they no longer exhibit a characteristic at the point of land disposal.)
(2) In the case of a waste which is a listed waste under subpart D of this part, contains a waste listed under subpart D of this part or is derived from a waste listed in subpart D of this part, it also has been excluded from paragraph (c) of this section under §§ 260.20 and 260.22 of this chapter.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and provided the debris as defined in part 268 of this chapter does not exhibit a characteristic identified at subpart C of this part, the following materials are not subject to regulation under 40 CFR parts 260, 261 to 266, 268, or 270:
(1) Hazardous debris as defined in part 268 of this chapter that has been treated using one of the required extraction or destruction technologies specified in Table 1 of § 268.45 of this chapter; persons claiming this exclusion in an enforcement action will have the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the material meets all of the exclusion requirements; or
(2) Debris as defined in part 268 of this chapter that the Regional Administrator, considering the extent of contamination, has determined is no
longer contaminated with hazardous waste.
(g)(1) A hazardous waste that is listed in subpart D of this part solely because it exhibits one or more characteristics of ignitability as defined under § 261.21, corrosivity as defined under § 261.22, or reactivity as defined under § 261.23 is not a hazardous waste, if the waste no longer exhibits any characteristic of hazardous waste identified in subpart C of this part.
(2) The exclusion described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section also pertains to:
(i) Any mixture of a solid waste and a hazardous waste listed in subpart D of this part solely because it exhibits the characteristics of ignitability, corrosivity, or reactivity as regulated under paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section; and
(ii) Any solid waste generated from treating, storing, or disposing of a hazardous waste listed in subpart D of this part solely because it exhibits the characteristics of ignitability, corrosivity, or reactivity as regulated under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Wastes excluded under this section are subject to part 268 of this chapter (as applicable), even if they no longer exhibit a characteristic at the point of land disposal.
(4) Any mixture of a solid waste excluded from regulation under § 261.4(b)(7) and a hazardous waste listed in subpart D of this part solely because it exhibits one or more of the characteristics of ignitability, corrosivity, or reactivity as regulated under paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section is not a hazardous waste, if the mixture no longer exhibits any characteristic of hazardous waste identified in subpart C of this part for which the hazardous waste listed in subpart D of this part was listed.
(h)(1) Hazardous waste containing radioactive waste is no longer a hazardous waste when it meets the eligibility criteria and conditions of 40 CFR part 266, Subpart N (“eligible radioactive mixed waste”).
(2) The exemption described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section also pertains to:
(i) Any mixture of a solid waste and an eligible radioactive mixed waste; and
(ii) Any solid waste generated from treating, storing, or disposing of an eligible radioactive mixed waste.
(3) Waste exempted under this section must meet the eligibility criteria and specified conditions in 40 CFR 266.225 and 40 CFR 266.230 (for storage and treatment) and in 40 CFR 266.310 and 40 CFR 266.315 (for transportation and disposal). Waste that fails to satisfy these eligibility criteria and conditions is regulated as hazardous waste.
[57 FR 7632, Mar. 3, 1992; 57 FR 23063, June 1, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 37263, Aug. 18, 1992; 57 FR 41611, Sept. 10, 1992; 57 FR 49279, Oct. 30, 1992; 59 FR 38545, July 28, 1994; 60 FR 7848, Feb. 9, 1995; 63 FR 28637, May 26, 1998; 63 FR 42184, Aug. 6, 1998; 66 FR 27297, May 16, 2001; 66 FR 50333, Oct. 3, 2001; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005; 70 FR 57784, Oct. 4, 2005; 71 FR 40258, July 14, 2006]
§ 261.4
Exclusions.
(a)
Materials which are not solid wastes.
The following materials are not solid wastes for the purpose of this part:
(1)(i) Domestic sewage; and
(ii) Any mixture of domestic sewage and other wastes that passes through a sewer system to a publicly-owned treatment works for treatment, except as prohibited by § 266.505 and Clean Water Act requirements at 40 CFR 403.5(b). “Domestic sewage” means untreated sanitary wastes that pass through a sewer system.
(2) Industrial wastewater discharges that are point source discharges subject to regulation under section 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended.
[
Comment:
This exclusion applies only to the actual point source discharge. It does not exclude industrial wastewaters while they are being collected, stored or treated before discharge, nor does it exclude sludges that are generated by industrial wastewater treatment.]
(3) Irrigation return flows.
(4) Source, special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
(5) Materials subjected to in-situ mining techniques which are not removed from the ground as part of the extraction process.
(6) Pulping liquors (
i.e.,
black liquor) that are reclaimed in a pulping liquor recovery furnace and then reused in the pulping process, unless it is accumulated speculatively as defined in § 261.1(c) of this chapter.
(7) Spent sulfuric acid used to produce virgin sulfuric acid provided it is not accumulated speculatively as defined in § 261.1(c) of this chapter.
(8) Secondary materials that are reclaimed and returned to the original process or processes in which they were generated where they are reused in the production process provided:
(i) Only tank storage is involved, and the entire process through completion of reclamation is closed by being entirely connected with pipes or other comparable enclosed means of conveyance;
(ii) Reclamation does not involve controlled flame combustion (such as occurs in boilers, industrial furnaces, or incinerators);
(iii) The secondary materials are never accumulated in such tanks for over twelve months without being reclaimed; and
(iv) The reclaimed material is not used to produce a fuel, or used to produce products that are used in a manner constituting disposal.
(9)(i) Spent wood preserving solutions that have been reclaimed and are reused for their original intended purpose; and
(ii) Wastewaters from the wood preserving process that have been reclaimed and are reused to treat wood.
(iii) Prior to reuse, the wood preserving wastewaters and spent wood preserving solutions described in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (a)(9)(ii) of this section, so long as they meet all of the following conditions:
(A) The wood preserving wastewaters and spent wood preserving solutions are reused on-site at water borne plants in the production process for their original intended purpose;
(B) Prior to reuse, the wastewaters and spent wood preserving solutions are managed to prevent release to either land or groundwater or both;
(C) Any unit used to manage wastewaters and/or spent wood preserving solutions prior to reuse can be visually or otherwise determined to prevent such releases;
(D) Any drip pad used to manage the wastewaters and/or spent wood preserving solutions prior to reuse complies with the standards in part 265, subpart W of this chapter, regardless of whether the plant generates a total of less than 100 kg/month of hazardous waste; and
(E) Prior to operating pursuant to this exclusion, the plant owner or operator prepares a one-time notification stating that the plant intends to claim the exclusion, giving the date on which the plant intends to begin operating under the exclusion, and containing the following language: “I have read the applicable regulation establishing an exclusion for wood preserving wastewaters and spent wood preserving solutions and understand it requires me to comply at all times with the conditions set out in the regulation.” The plant must maintain a copy of that document in its on-site records until closure of the facility. The exclusion applies so long as the plant meets all of the conditions. If the plant goes out of compliance with any condition, it may apply to the appropriate Regional Administrator or state Director for reinstatement. The Regional Administrator or state Director may reinstate the exclusion upon finding that the plant has returned to compliance with all conditions and that the violations are not likely to recur.
(10) EPA Hazardous Waste Nos. K060, K087, K141, K142, K143, K144, K145, K147, and K148, and any wastes from the coke by-products processes that are hazardous only because they exhibit the Toxicity Characteristic (TC) specified in section 261.24 of this part when, subsequent to generation, these materials are recycled to coke ovens, to the tar recovery process as a feedstock to produce coal tar, or mixed with coal tar prior to the tar's sale or refining. This exclusion is conditioned on there being no land disposal of the wastes from the point they are generated to the point they are recycled to coke ovens or tar recovery or refining processes, or mixed with coal tar.
(11) Nonwastewater splash condenser dross residue from the treatment of K061 in high temperature metals recovery units, provided it is shipped in drums (if shipped) and not land disposed before recovery.
(12)(i) Oil-bearing hazardous secondary materials (
i.e.
, sludges, byproducts, or spent materials) that are generated at a petroleum refinery (SIC code 2911) and are inserted into the petroleum refining process (SIC code 2911—including, but not limited to, distillation, catalytic cracking, fractionation, or thermal cracking units (
i.e.
, cokers)) unless the material is placed on the land, or speculatively accumulated before being so recycled. Materials inserted into thermal cracking units are excluded under this paragraph, provided that the coke product also does not exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste. Oil-bearing hazardous secondary materials may be inserted into the same petroleum refinery where they are generated, or sent directly to another petroleum refinery and still be excluded under this provision. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(12)(ii) of this section, oil-bearing hazardous secondary materials generated elsewhere in the petroleum industry (
i.e.
, from sources other than petroleum refineries) are not excluded under this section. Residuals generated from processing or recycling materials excluded under this paragraph (a)(12)(i), where such materials as generated would have otherwise met a listing under subpart D of this part, are designated as F037 listed wastes when disposed of or intended for disposal.
(ii) Recovered oil that is recycled in the same manner and with the same conditions as described in paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section. Recovered oil is oil that has been reclaimed from secondary materials (including wastewater) generated from normal petroleum industry practices, including refining, exploration and production, bulk storage, and transportation incident thereto (SIC codes 1311, 1321, 1381, 1382, 1389, 2911, 4612, 4613, 4922, 4923, 4789, 5171, and 5172.) Recovered oil does not include oil-bearing hazardous wastes listed in subpart D of this part; however, oil recovered from such wastes may be considered recovered oil. Recovered oil does not include used oil as defined in 40 CFR 279.1.
(13) Excluded scrap metal (processed scrap metal, unprocessed home scrap metal, and unprocessed prompt scrap metal) being recycled.
(14) Shredded circuit boards being recycled provided that they are:
(i) Stored in containers sufficient to prevent a release to the environment prior to recovery; and
(ii) Free of mercury switches, mercury relays and nickel-cadmium batteries and lithium batteries.
(15) Condensates derived from the overhead gases from kraft mill steam strippers that are used to comply with 40 CFR 63.446(e). The exemption applies only to combustion at the mill generating the condensates.
(16) [Reserved]
(17) Spent materials (as defined in § 261.1) (other than hazardous wastes listed in subpart D of this part) generated within the primary mineral processing industry from which minerals, acids, cyanide, water, or other values are recovered by mineral processing or by beneficiation, provided that:
(i) The spent material is legitimately recycled to recover minerals, acids, cyanide, water or other values;
(ii) The spent material is not accumulated speculatively;
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(17)(iv) of this section, the spent material is stored in tanks, containers, or buildings meeting the following minimum integrity standards: a building must be an engineered structure with a floor, walls, and a roof all of which are made of non-earthen materials providing structural support (except smelter buildings may have partially earthen floors provided the secondary material is stored on the non-earthen portion), and have a roof suitable for diverting rainwater away from the foundation; a tank must be free standing, not be a surface impoundment (as defined in 40 CFR 260.10), and be manufactured of a material suitable for containment of its contents; a container must be free standing and be manufactured of a material suitable for containment of its contents. If tanks or containers contain any particulate
which may be subject to wind dispersal, the owner/operator must operate these units in a manner which controls fugitive dust. Tanks, containers, and buildings must be designed, constructed and operated to prevent significant releases to the environment of these materials.
(iv) The Regional Administrator or State Director may make a site-specific determination, after public review and comment, that only solid mineral processing spent material may be placed on pads rather than tanks containers, or buildings. Solid mineral processing spent materials do not contain any free liquid. The decision-maker must affirm that pads are designed, constructed and operated to prevent significant releases of the secondary material into the environment. Pads must provide the same degree of containment afforded by the non-RCRA tanks, containers and buildings eligible for exclusion.
(A) The decision-maker must also consider if storage on pads poses the potential for significant releases via groundwater, surface water, and air exposure pathways. Factors to be considered for assessing the groundwater, surface water, air exposure pathways are: The volume and physical and chemical properties of the secondary material, including its potential for migration off the pad; the potential for human or environmental exposure to hazardous constituents migrating from the pad via each exposure pathway, and the possibility and extent of harm to human and environmental receptors via each exposure pathway.
(B) Pads must meet the following minimum standards: Be designed of non-earthen material that is compatible with the chemical nature of the mineral processing spent material, capable of withstanding physical stresses associated with placement and removal, have run on/runoff controls, be operated in a manner which controls fugitive dust, and have integrity assurance through inspections and maintenance programs.
(C) Before making a determination under this paragraph, the Regional Administrator or State Director must provide notice and the opportunity for comment to all persons potentially interested in the determination. This can be accomplished by placing notice of this action in major local newspapers, or broadcasting notice over local radio stations.
(v) The owner or operator provides notice to the Regional Administrator or State Director providing the following information: The types of materials to be recycled; the type and location of the storage units and recycling processes; and the annual quantities expected to be placed in land-based units. This notification must be updated when there is a change in the type of materials recycled or the location of the recycling process.
(vi) For purposes of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, mineral processing spent materials must be the result of mineral processing and may not include any listed hazardous wastes. Listed hazardous wastes and characteristic hazardous wastes generated by non-mineral processing industries are not eligible for the conditional exclusion from the definition of solid waste.
(18) Petrochemical recovered oil from an associated organic chemical manufacturing facility, where the oil is to be inserted into the petroleum refining process (SIC code 2911) along with normal petroleum refinery process streams, provided:
(i) The oil is hazardous only because it exhibits the characteristic of ignitability (as defined in § 261.21) and/or toxicity for benzene (§ 261.24, waste code D018); and
(ii) The oil generated by the organic chemical manufacturing facility is not placed on the land, or speculatively accumulated before being recycled into the petroleum refining process. An “associated organic chemical manufacturing facility” is a facility where the primary SIC code is 2869, but where operations may also include SIC codes 2821, 2822, and 2865; and is physically co-located with a petroleum refinery; and where the petroleum refinery to which the oil being recycled is returned also provides hydrocarbon feedstocks to the organic chemical manufacturing facility. “Petrochemical recovered oil” is oil that has been reclaimed from secondary materials (i.e., sludges, byproducts, or spent materials, including
wastewater) from normal organic chemical manufacturing operations, as well as oil recovered from organic chemical manufacturing processes.
(19) Spent caustic solutions from petroleum refining liquid treating processes used as a feedstock to produce cresylic or naphthenic acid unless the material is placed on the land, or accumulated speculatively as defined in § 261.1(c).
(20) Hazardous secondary materials used to make zinc fertilizers, provided that the following conditions specified are satisfied:
(i) Hazardous secondary materials used to make zinc micronutrient fertilizers must not be accumulated speculatively, as defined in § 261.1 (c)(8).
(ii) Generators and intermediate handlers of zinc-bearing hazardous secondary materials that are to be incorporated into zinc fertilizers must:
(A) Submit a one-time notice to the Regional Administrator or State Director in whose jurisdiction the exclusion is being claimed, which contains the name, address and EPA ID number of the generator or intermediate handler facility, provides a brief description of the secondary material that will be subject to the exclusion, and identifies when the manufacturer intends to begin managing excluded, zinc-bearing hazardous secondary materials under the conditions specified in this paragraph (a)(20).
(B) Store the excluded secondary material in tanks, containers, or buildings that are constructed and maintained in a way that prevents releases of the secondary materials into the environment. At a minimum, any building used for this purpose must be an engineered structure made of non-earthen materials that provide structural support, and must have a floor, walls and a roof that prevent wind dispersal and contact with rainwater. Tanks used for this purpose must be structurally sound and, if outdoors, must have roofs or covers that prevent contact with wind and rain. Containers used for this purpose must be kept closed except when it is necessary to add or remove material, and must be in sound condition. Containers that are stored outdoors must be managed within storage areas that:
(
1
) Have containment structures or systems sufficiently impervious to contain leaks, spills and accumulated precipitation; and
(
2
) Provide for effective drainage and removal of leaks, spills and accumulated precipitation; and
(
3
) Prevent run-on into the containment system.
(C) With each off-site shipment of excluded hazardous secondary materials, provide written notice to the receiving facility that the material is subject to the conditions of this paragraph (a)(20).
(D) Maintain at the generator's or intermediate handlers's facility for no less than three years records of all shipments of excluded hazardous secondary materials. For each shipment these records must at a minimum contain the following information:
(
1
) Name of the transporter and date of the shipment;
(
2
) Name and address of the facility that received the excluded material, and documentation confirming receipt of the shipment; and
(
3
) Type and quantity of excluded secondary material in each shipment.
(iii) Manufacturers of zinc fertilizers or zinc fertilizer ingredients made from excluded hazardous secondary materials must:
(A) Store excluded hazardous secondary materials in accordance with the storage requirements for generators and intermediate handlers, as specified in paragraph (a)(20)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B) Submit a one-time notification to the Regional Administrator or State Director that, at a minimum, specifies the name, address and EPA ID number of the manufacturing facility, and identifies when the manufacturer intends to begin managing excluded, zinc-bearing hazardous secondary materials under the conditions specified in this paragraph (a)(20).
(C) Maintain for a minimum of three years records of all shipments of excluded hazardous secondary materials received by the manufacturer, which must at a minimum identify for each shipment the name and address of the generating facility, name of transporter and date the materials were received, the quantity received, and a
brief description of the industrial process that generated the material.
(D) Submit to the Regional Administrator or State Director an annual report that identifies the total quantities of all excluded hazardous secondary materials that were used to manufacture zinc fertilizers or zinc fertilizer ingredients in the previous year, the name and address of each generating facility, and the industrial process(s) from which they were generated.
(iv) Nothing in this section preempts, overrides or otherwise negates the provision in § 262.11 of this chapter, which requires any person who generates a solid waste to determine if that waste is a hazardous waste.
(v) Interim status and permitted storage units that have been used to store only zinc-bearing hazardous wastes prior to the submission of the one-time notice described in paragraph (a)(20)(ii)(A) of this section, and that afterward will be used only to store hazardous secondary materials excluded under this paragraph, are not subject to the closure requirements of 40 CFR Parts 264 and 265.
(21) Zinc fertilizers made from hazardous wastes, or hazardous secondary materials that are excluded under paragraph (a)(20) of this section, provided that:
(i) The fertilizers meet the following contaminant limits:
(A) For metal contaminants:
Constituent
Maximum Allowable Total Concentration in Fertilizer, per Unit (1%) of Zinc (ppm)
Arsenic
0.3
Cadmium
1.4
Chromium
0.6
Lead
2.8
Mercury
0.3
(B) For dioxin contaminants the fertilizer must contain no more than eight (8) parts per trillion of dioxin, measured as toxic equivalent (TEQ).
(ii) The manufacturer performs sampling and analysis of the fertilizer product to determine compliance with the contaminant limits for metals no less than every six months, and for dioxins no less than every twelve months. Testing must also be performed whenever changes occur to manufacturing processes or ingredients that could significantly affect the amounts of contaminants in the fertilizer product. The manufacturer may use any reliable analytical method to demonstrate that no constituent of concern is present in the product at concentrations above the applicable limits. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to ensure that the sampling and analysis are unbiased, precise, and representative of the product(s) introduced into commerce.
(iii) The manufacturer maintains for no less than three years records of all sampling and analyses performed for purposes of determining compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(21)(ii) of this section. Such records must at a minimum include:
(A) The dates and times product samples were taken, and the dates the samples were analyzed;
(B) The names and qualifications of the person(s) taking the samples;
(C) A description of the methods and equipment used to take the samples;
(D) The name and address of the laboratory facility at which analyses of the samples were performed;
(E) A description of the analytical methods used, including any cleanup and sample preparation methods; and
(F) All laboratory analytical results used to determine compliance with the contaminant limits specified in this paragraph (a)(21).
(22) Used cathode ray tubes (CRTs)
(i) Used, intact CRTs as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter are not solid wastes within the United States unless they are disposed, or unless they are speculatively accumulated as defined in § 261.1(c)(8) by CRT collectors or glass processors.
(ii) Used, intact CRTs as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter are not solid wastes when exported for recycling provided that they meet the requirements of § 261.40.
(iii) Used, broken CRTs as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter are not solid wastes provided that they meet the requirements of § 261.39.
(iv) Glass removed from CRTs is not a solid waste provided that it meets the requirements of § 261.39(c).
(23) Hazardous secondary material generated and legitimately reclaimed within the United States or its territories and under the control of the generator, provided that the material complies with paragraphs (a)(23)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i)(A) The hazardous secondary material is generated and reclaimed at the generating facility (for purposes of this definition, generating facility means all contiguous property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the hazardous secondary material generator); or
(B) The hazardous secondary material is generated and reclaimed at different facilities, if the reclaiming facility is controlled by the generator or if both the generating facility and the reclaiming facility are controlled by a person as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter, and if the generator provides one of the following certifications: “on behalf of [insert generator facility name], I certify that this facility will send the indicated hazardous secondary material to [insert reclaimer facility name], which is controlled by [insert generator facility name] and that [insert name of either facility] has acknowledged full responsibility for the safe management of the hazardous secondary material,” or “on behalf of [insert generator facility name], I certify that this facility will send the indicated hazardous secondary material to [insert reclaimer facility name], that both facilities are under common control, and that [insert name of either facility] has acknowledged full responsibility for the safe management of the hazardous secondary material.” For purposes of this paragraph, “control” means the power to direct the policies of the facility, whether by the ownership of stock, voting rights, or otherwise, except that contractors who operate facilities on behalf of a different person as defined in § 260.10 shall not be deemed to “control” such facilities. The generating and receiving facilities must both maintain at their facilities for no less than three years records of hazardous secondary materials sent or received under this exclusion. In both cases, the records must contain the name of the transporter, the date of the shipment, and the type and quantity of the hazardous secondary material shipped or received under the exclusion. These requirements may be satisfied by routine business records (
e.g.,
financial records, bills of lading, copies of DOT shipping papers, or electronic confirmations); or
(C) The hazardous secondary material is generated pursuant to a written contract between a tolling contractor and a toll manufacturer and is reclaimed by the tolling contractor, if the tolling contractor certifies the following: “On behalf of [insert tolling contractor name], I certify that [insert tolling contractor name] has a written contract with [insert toll manufacturer name] to manufacture [insert name of product or intermediate] which is made from specified unused materials, and that [insert tolling contractor name] will reclaim the hazardous secondary materials generated during this manufacture. On behalf of [insert tolling contractor name], I also certify that [insert tolling contractor name] retains ownership of, and responsibility for, the hazardous secondary materials that are generated during the course of the manufacture, including any releases of hazardous secondary materials that occur during the manufacturing process”. The tolling contractor must maintain at its facility for no less than three years records of hazardous secondary materials received pursuant to its written contract with the tolling manufacturer, and the tolling manufacturer must maintain at its facility for no less than three years records of hazardous secondary materials shipped pursuant to its written contract with the tolling contractor. In both cases, the records must contain the name of the transporter, the date of the shipment, and the type and quantity of the hazardous secondary material shipped or received pursuant to the written contract. These requirements may be satisfied by routine business records (
e.g.,
financial records, bills of lading, copies of DOT shipping papers, or electronic confirmations). For purposes of this paragraph, tolling contractor means a person who arranges for the production of a product or intermediate made from specified unused materials through a written contract with a toll manufacturer. Toll
manufacturer means a person who produces a product or intermediate made from specified unused materials pursuant to a written contract with a tolling contractor.
(ii)(A) The hazardous secondary material is contained as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter. A hazardous secondary material released to the environment is discarded and a solid waste unless it is immediately recovered for the purpose of reclamation. Hazardous secondary material managed in a unit with leaks or other continuing or intermittent unpermitted releases is discarded and a solid waste.
(B) The hazardous secondary material is not speculatively accumulated, as defined in § 261.1(c)(8).
(C) Notice is provided as required by § 260.42 of this chapter.
(D) The material is not otherwise subject to material-specific management conditions under paragraph (a) of this section when reclaimed, and it is not a spent lead-acid battery (see §§ 266.80 and 273.2 of this chapter).
(E) Persons performing the recycling of hazardous secondary materials under this exclusion must maintain documentation of their legitimacy determination on-site. Documentation must be a written description of how the recycling meets all three factors in § 260.43(a) and how the factor in § 260.43(b) was considered. Documentation must be maintained for three years after the recycling operation has ceased.
(F) The emergency preparedness and response requirements found in subpart M of this part are met.
(24) Hazardous secondary material that is generated and then transferred to another person for the purpose of reclamation is not a solid waste, provided that:
(i) The material is not speculatively accumulated, as defined in § 261.1(c)(8);
(ii) The material is not handled by any person or facility other than the hazardous secondary material generator, the transporter, an intermediate facility or a reclaimer, and, while in transport, is not stored for more than 10 days at a transfer facility, as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter, and is packaged according to applicable Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR parts 173, 178, and 179 while in transport;
(iii) The material is not otherwise subject to material-specific management conditions under paragraph (a) of this section when reclaimed, and it is not a spent lead-acid battery (see §§ 266.80 and 273.2 of this chapter);
(iv) The reclamation of the material is legitimate, as specified under § 260.43 of this chapter;
(v) The hazardous secondary material generator satisfies all of the following conditions:
(A) The material must be contained as defined in § 260.10. A hazardous secondary material released to the environment is discarded and a solid waste unless it is immediately recovered for the purpose of recycling. Hazardous secondary material managed in a unit with leaks or other continuing releases is discarded and a solid waste.
(B) Prior to arranging for transport of hazardous secondary materials to a reclamation facility (or facilities) where the management of the hazardous secondary materials is not addressed under a RCRA part B permit or interim status standards, the hazardous secondary material generator must make reasonable efforts to ensure that each reclaimer intends to properly and legitimately reclaim the hazardous secondary material and not discard it, and that each reclaimer will manage the hazardous secondary material in a manner that is protective of human health and the environment. If the hazardous secondary material will be passing through an intermediate facility where the management of the hazardous secondary materials is not addressed under a RCRA part B permit or interim status standards, the hazardous secondary material generator must make contractual arrangements with the intermediate facility to ensure that the hazardous secondary material is sent to the reclamation facility identified by the hazardous secondary material generator, and the hazardous secondary material generator must perform reasonable efforts to ensure that the intermediate facility will manage the hazardous secondary material in a manner that is protective of human health and the environment. Reasonable efforts must be repeated at
a minimum of every three years for the hazardous secondary material generator to claim the exclusion and to send the hazardous secondary materials to each reclaimer and any intermediate facility. In making these reasonable efforts, the generator may use any credible evidence available, including information gathered by the hazardous secondary material generator, provided by the reclaimer or intermediate facility, and/or provided by a third party. The hazardous secondary material generator must affirmatively answer all of the following questions for each reclamation facility and any intermediate facility:
(
1
) Does the available information indicate that the reclamation process is legitimate pursuant to § 260.43 of this chapter? In answering this question, the hazardous secondary material generator can rely on their existing knowledge of the physical and chemical properties of the hazardous secondary material, as well as information from other sources (
e.g.,
the reclamation facility, audit reports, etc.) about the reclamation process.
(
2
) Does the publicly available information indicate that the reclamation facility and any intermediate facility that is used by the hazardous secondary material generator notified the appropriate authorities of hazardous secondary materials reclamation activities pursuant to § 260.42 of this chapter and have they notified the appropriate authorities that the financial assurance condition is satisfied per paragraph (a)(24)(vi)(F) of this section? In answering these questions, the hazardous secondary material generator can rely on the available information documenting the reclamation facility's and any intermediate facility's compliance with the notification requirements per § 260.42 of this chapter, including the requirement in § 260.42(a)(5) to notify EPA whether the reclaimer or intermediate facility has financial assurance.
(
3
) Does publicly available information indicate that the reclamation facility or any intermediate facility that is used by the hazardous secondary material generator has not had any formal enforcement actions taken against the facility in the previous three years for violations of the RCRA hazardous waste regulations and has not been classified as a significant non-complier with RCRA Subtitle C? In answering this question, the hazardous secondary material generator can rely on the publicly available information from EPA or the state. If the reclamation facility or any intermediate facility that is used by the hazardous secondary material generator has had a formal enforcement action taken against the facility in the previous three years for violations of the RCRA hazardous waste regulations and has been classified as a significant non-complier with RCRA Subtitle C, does the hazardous secondary material generator have credible evidence that the facilities will manage the hazardous secondary materials properly? In answering this question, the hazardous secondary material generator can obtain additional information from EPA, the state, or the facility itself that the facility has addressed the violations, taken remedial steps to address the violations and prevent future violations, or that the violations are not relevant to the proper management of the hazardous secondary materials.
(
4
) Does the available information indicate that the reclamation facility and any intermediate facility that is used by the hazardous secondary material generator have the equipment and trained personnel to safely recycle the hazardous secondary material? In answering this question, the generator may rely on a description by the reclamation facility or by an independent third party of the equipment and trained personnel to be used to recycle the generator's hazardous secondary material.
(
5
) If residuals are generated from the reclamation of the excluded hazardous secondary materials, does the reclamation facility have the permits required (if any) to manage the residuals? If not, does the reclamation facility have a contract with an appropriately permitted facility to dispose of the residuals? If not, does the hazardous secondary material generator have credible evidence that the residuals will be managed in a manner that is protective of human health and the environment?
In answering these questions, the hazardous secondary material generator can rely on publicly available information from EPA or the state, or information provided by the facility itself.
(C) The hazardous secondary material generator must maintain for a minimum of three years documentation and certification that reasonable efforts were made for each reclamation facility and, if applicable, intermediate facility where the management of the hazardous secondary materials is not addressed under a RCRA part B permit or interim status standards prior to transferring hazardous secondary material. Documentation and certification must be made available upon request by a regulatory authority within 72 hours, or within a longer period of time as specified by the regulatory authority. The certification statement must:
(
1
) Include the printed name and official title of an authorized representative of the hazardous secondary material generator company, the authorized representative's signature, and the date signed;
(
2
) Incorporate the following language: “I hereby certify in good faith and to the best of my knowledge that, prior to arranging for transport of excluded hazardous secondary materials to [insert name(s) of reclamation facility and any intermediate facility], reasonable efforts were made in accordance with § 261.4(a)(24)(v)(B) to ensure that the hazardous secondary materials would be recycled legitimately, and otherwise managed in a manner that is protective of human health and the environment, and that such efforts were based on current and accurate information.”
(D) The hazardous secondary material generator must maintain at the generating facility for no less than three (3) years records of all off-site shipments of hazardous secondary materials. For each shipment, these records must, at a minimum, contain the following information:
(
1
) Name of the transporter and date of the shipment;
(
2
) Name and address of each reclaimer and, if applicable, the name and address of each intermediate facility to which the hazardous secondary material was sent;
(
3
) The type and quantity of hazardous secondary material in the shipment.
(E) The hazardous secondary material generator must maintain at the generating facility for no less than three (3) years confirmations of receipt from each reclaimer and, if applicable, each intermediate facility for all off-site shipments of hazardous secondary materials. Confirmations of receipt must include the name and address of the reclaimer (or intermediate facility), the type and quantity of the hazardous secondary materials received and the date which the hazardous secondary materials were received. This requirement may be satisfied by routine business records (
e.g.,
financial records, bills of lading, copies of DOT shipping papers, or electronic confirmations of receipt);
(F) The hazardous secondary material generator must comply with the emergency preparedness and response conditions in subpart M of this part.
(vi) Reclaimers of hazardous secondary material excluded from regulation under this exclusion and intermediate facilities as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter satisfy all of the following conditions:
(A) The reclaimer and intermediate facility must maintain at its facility for no less than three (3) years records of all shipments of hazardous secondary material that were received at the facility and, if applicable, for all shipments of hazardous secondary materials that were received and subsequently sent off-site from the facility for further reclamation. For each shipment, these records must at a minimum contain the following information:
(
1
) Name of the transporter and date of the shipment;
(
2
) Name and address of the hazardous secondary material generator and, if applicable, the name and address of the reclaimer or intermediate facility which the hazardous secondary materials were received from;
(
3
) The type and quantity of hazardous secondary material in the shipment; and
(
4
) For hazardous secondary materials that, after being received by the reclaimer or intermediate facility, were subsequently transferred off-site for further reclamation, the name and address of the (subsequent) reclaimer and, if applicable, the name and address of each intermediate facility to which the hazardous secondary material was sent.
(B) The intermediate facility must send the hazardous secondary material to the reclaimer(s) designated by the hazardous secondary materials generator.
(C) The reclaimer and intermediate facility must send to the hazardous secondary material generator confirmations of receipt for all off-site shipments of hazardous secondary materials. Confirmations of receipt must include the name and address of the reclaimer (or intermediate facility), the type and quantity of the hazardous secondary materials received and the date which the hazardous secondary materials were received. This requirement may be satisfied by routine business records (
e.g.,
financial records, bills of lading, copies of DOT shipping papers, or electronic confirmations of receipt).
(D) The reclaimer and intermediate facility must manage the hazardous secondary material in a manner that is at least as protective as that employed for analogous raw material and must be contained. An “analogous raw material” is a raw material for which a hazardous secondary material is a substitute and serves the same function and has similar physical and chemical properties as the hazardous secondary material.
(E) Any residuals that are generated from reclamation processes will be managed in a manner that is protective of human health and the environment. If any residuals exhibit a hazardous characteristic according to subpart C of 40 CFR part 261, or if they themselves are specifically listed in subpart D of 40 CFR part 261, such residuals are hazardous wastes and must be managed in accordance with the applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272.
(F) The reclaimer and intermediate facility have financial assurance as required under subpart H of 40 CFR part 261,
(vii) In addition, all persons claiming the exclusion under this paragraph (a)(24) of this section must provide notification as required under § 260.42 of this chapter.
(25) Hazardous secondary material that is exported from the United States and reclaimed at a reclamation facility located in a foreign country is not a solid waste, provided that the hazardous secondary material generator complies with the applicable requirements of paragraph (a)(24)(i)-(v) of this section (excepting paragraph (a)(24)(v)(B)(
2
) of this section for foreign reclaimers and foreign intermediate facilities), and that the hazardous secondary material generator also complies with the following requirements:
(i) Notify EPA of an intended export before the hazardous secondary material is scheduled to leave the United States. A complete notification must be submitted at least sixty (60) days before the initial shipment is intended to be shipped off-site. This notification may cover export activities extending over a twelve (12) month or lesser period. The notification must be in writing, signed by the hazardous secondary material generator, and include the following information:
(A) Name, site address, telephone number and EPA ID number (if applicable) of the hazardous secondary material generator;
(B) A description of the hazardous secondary material and the EPA hazardous waste number that would apply if the hazardous secondary material was managed as hazardous waste and the U.S. DOT proper shipping name, hazard class and ID number (UN/NA) for each hazardous secondary material as identified in 49 CFR parts 171 through 177;
(C) The estimated frequency or rate at which the hazardous secondary material is to be exported and the period of time over which the hazardous secondary material is to be exported;
(D) The estimated total quantity of hazardous secondary material;
(E) All points of entry to and departure from each foreign country through
which the hazardous secondary material will pass;
(F) A description of the means by which each shipment of the hazardous secondary material will be transported (
e.g.,
mode of transportation vehicle (air, highway, rail, water, etc.), type(s) of container (drums, boxes, tanks, etc.));
(G) A description of the manner in which the hazardous secondary material will be reclaimed in the country of import;
(H) The name and site address of the reclaimer, any intermediate facility and any alternate reclaimer and intermediate facilities; and
(I) The name of any countries of transit through which the hazardous secondary material will be sent and a description of the approximate length of time it will remain in such countries and the nature of its handling while there (for purposes of this section, the terms “EPA Acknowledgment of Consent”, “country of import” and “country of transit” are used as defined in 40 CFR 262.81 with the exception that the terms in this section refer to hazardous secondary materials, rather than hazardous waste):
(ii) Notifications must be submitted electronically using EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system.
(iii) Except for changes to the telephone number in paragraph (a)(25)(i)(A) of this section and decreases in the quantity of hazardous secondary material indicated pursuant to paragraph (a)(25)(i)(D) of this section, when the conditions specified on the original notification change (including any exceedance of the estimate of the quantity of hazardous secondary material specified in the original notification), the hazardous secondary material generator must provide EPA with a written renotification of the change. The shipment cannot take place until consent of the country of import to the changes (except for changes to paragraph (a)(25)(i)(I) of this section and in the ports of entry to and departure from countries of transit pursuant to paragraphs (a)(25)(i)(E) of this section) has been obtained and the hazardous secondary material generator receives from EPA an EPA Acknowledgment of Consent reflecting the country of import's consent to the changes.
(iv) Upon request by EPA, the hazardous secondary material generator shall furnish to EPA any additional information which a country of import requests in order to respond to a notification.
(v) The EPA will provide a complete notification to the country of import and any countries of transit. A notification is complete when EPA receives a notification which EPA determines satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a)(25)(i) of this section.
(vi) The export of hazardous secondary material under this paragraph (a)(25) is prohibited unless the hazardous secondary material generator receives from EPA an EPA Acknowledgment of Consent documenting the consent of the country of import to the receipt of the hazardous secondary material. Where the country of import objects to receipt of the hazardous secondary material or withdraws a prior consent, EPA will notify the hazardous secondary material generator in writing. EPA will also notify the hazardous secondary material generator of any responses from countries of transit.
(vii) Prior to each shipment, the hazardous secondary material generator or a U.S. authorized agent must:
(A) Submit Electronic Export Information (EEI) for each shipment to the Automated Export System (AES) or its successor system, under the International Trade Data System (ITDS) platform, in accordance with 15 CFR 30.4(b).
(B) Include the following items in the EEI, along with the other information required under 15 CFR 30.6:
(
1
) EPA license code;
(
2
) Commodity classification code per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(12);
(
3
) EPA consent number;
(
4
) Country of ultimate destination per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(5);
(
5
) Date of export per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(2);
(
6
) Quantity of waste in shipment and units for reported quantity, if required reporting units established by value for the reported commodity classification number are in units of weight or volume per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(15); or
(
7
) EPA net quantity reported in units of kilograms, if required reporting units established by value for the reported commodity classification number are not in units of weight or volume.
(viii) A copy of the EPA Acknowledgment of Consent must accompany the shipment. The shipment must conform to the terms of the EPA Acknowledgment of Consent.
(ix) If a shipment cannot be delivered for any reason to the reclaimer, intermediate facility or the alternate reclaimer or alternate intermediate facility, the hazardous secondary material generator must re-notify EPA of a change in the conditions of the original notification to allow shipment to a new reclaimer in accordance with paragraph (iii) of this section and obtain another EPA Acknowledgment of Consent.
(x) Hazardous secondary material generators must keep a copy of each notification of intent to export and each EPA Acknowledgment of Consent for a period of three years following receipt of the EPA Acknowledgment of Consent. They may satisfy this recordkeeping requirement by retaining electronically submitted notifications or electronically generated Acknowledgements in their account on EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system, provided that such copies are readily available for viewing and production if requested by any EPA or authorized state inspector. No hazardous secondary material generator may be held liable for the inability to produce a notification or Acknowledgement for inspection under this section if they can demonstrate that the inability to produce such copies are due exclusively to technical difficulty with EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system for which the hazardous secondary material generator bears no responsibility.
(xi) Hazardous secondary material generators must file with the Administrator no later than March 1 of each year, a report summarizing the types, quantities, frequency and ultimate destination of all hazardous secondary materials exported during the previous calendar year. Annual reports must be submitted electronically using EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system. Such reports must include the following information:
(A) Name, mailing and site address, and EPA ID number (if applicable) of the hazardous secondary material generator;
(B) The calendar year covered by the report;
(C) The name and site address of each reclaimer and intermediate facility;
(D) By reclaimer and intermediate facility, for each hazardous secondary material exported, a description of the hazardous secondary material and the EPA hazardous waste number that would apply if the hazardous secondary material was managed as hazardous waste, the DOT hazard class, the name and U.S. EPA ID number (where applicable) for each transporter used, the consent number(s) under which the hazardous secondary material was shipped and for each consent number, the total amount of hazardous secondary material shipped and the number of shipments exported during the calendar year covered by the report;
(E) A certification signed by the hazardous secondary material generator which states: “I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this and all attached documents, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”
(xii) All persons claiming an exclusion under this paragraph (a)(25) must provide notification as required by § 260.42 of this chapter.
(26) Solvent-contaminated wipes that are sent for cleaning and reuse are not solid wastes from the point of generation, provided that
(i) The solvent-contaminated wipes, when accumulated, stored, and transported, are contained in non-leaking, closed containers that are labeled “Excluded Solvent-Contaminated Wipes.” The containers must be able to contain
free liquids, should free liquids occur. During accumulation, a container is considered closed when there is complete contact between the fitted lid and the rim, except when it is necessary to add or remove solvent-contaminated wipes. When the container is full, or when the solvent-contaminated wipes are no longer being accumulated, or when the container is being transported, the container must be sealed with all lids properly and securely affixed to the container and all openings tightly bound or closed sufficiently to prevent leaks and emissions;
(ii) The solvent-contaminated wipes may be accumulated by the generator for up to 180 days from the start date of accumulation for each container prior to being sent for cleaning;
(iii) At the point of being sent for cleaning on-site or at the point of being transported off-site for cleaning, the solvent-contaminated wipes must contain no free liquids as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter.
(iv) Free liquids removed from the solvent-contaminated wipes or from the container holding the wipes must be managed according to the applicable regulations found in 40 CFR parts 260 through 273;
(v) Generators must maintain at their site the following documentation:
(A) Name and address of the laundry or dry cleaner that is receiving the solvent-contaminated wipes;
(B) Documentation that the 180-day accumulation time limit in 40 CFR 261.4(a)(26)(ii) is being met;
(C) Description of the process the generator is using to ensure the solvent-contaminated wipes contain no free liquids at the point of being laundered or dry cleaned on-site or at the point of being transported off-site for laundering or dry cleaning;
(vi) The solvent-contaminated wipes are sent to a laundry or dry cleaner whose discharge, if any, is regulated under sections 301 and 402 or section 307 of the Clean Water Act.
(27) Hazardous secondary material that is generated and then transferred to another person for the purpose of remanufacturing is not a solid waste, provided that:
(i) The hazardous secondary material consists of one or more of the following spent solvents: Toluene, xylenes, ethylbenzene, 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, chlorobenzene, n-hexane, cyclohexane, methyl tert-butyl ether, acetonitrile, chloroform, chloromethane, dichloromethane, methyl isobutyl ketone, NN-dimethylformamide, tetrahydrofuran, n-butyl alcohol, ethanol, and/or methanol;
(ii) The hazardous secondary material originated from using one or more of the solvents listed in paragraph (a)(27)(i) of this section in a commercial grade for reacting, extracting, purifying, or blending chemicals (or for rinsing out the process lines associated with these functions) in the pharmaceutical manufacturing (NAICS 325412), basic organic chemical manufacturing (NAICS 325199), plastics and resins manufacturing (NAICS 325211), and/or the paints and coatings manufacturing sectors (NAICS 325510).
(iii) The hazardous secondary material generator sends the hazardous secondary material spent solvents listed in paragraph (a)(27)(i) of this section to a remanufacturer in the pharmaceutical manufacturing (NAICS 325412), basic organic chemical manufacturing (NAICS 325199), plastics and resins manufacturing (NAICS 325211), and/or the paints and coatings manufacturing sectors (NAICS 325510).
(iv) After remanufacturing one or more of the solvents listed in paragraph (a)(27)(i) of this section, the use of the remanufactured solvent shall be limited to reacting, extracting, purifying, or blending chemicals (or for rinsing out the process lines associated with these functions) in the pharmaceutical manufacturing (NAICS 325412), basic organic chemical manufacturing (NAICS 325199), plastics and resins manufacturing (NAICS 325211), and the paints and coatings manufacturing sectors (NAICS 325510) or to using them as ingredients in a product. These allowed uses correspond to chemical functional uses enumerated under the Chemical Data Reporting Rule of the Toxic Substances Control Act (40 CFR parts 704, 710-711), including Industrial Function Codes U015 (solvents consumed in a reaction to produce other chemicals) and U030 (solvents become part of the mixture);
(v) After remanufacturing one or more of the solvents listed in paragraph (a)(27)(i) of this section, the use of the remanufactured solvent does not involve cleaning or degreasing oil, grease, or similar material from textiles, glassware, metal surfaces, or other articles. (These disallowed continuing uses correspond to chemical functional uses in Industrial Function Code U029 under the Chemical Data Reporting Rule of the Toxics Substances Control Act.); and
(vi) Both the hazardous secondary material generator and the remanufacturer must:
(A) Notify EPA or the State Director, if the state is authorized for the program, and update the notification every two years per 40 CFR 260.42;
(B) Develop and maintain an up-to-date remanufacturing plan which identifies:
(
1
) The name, address and EPA ID number of the generator(s) and the remanufacturer(s),
(
2
) The types and estimated annual volumes of spent solvents to be remanufactured,
(
3
) The processes and industry sectors that generate the spent solvents,
(
4
) The specific uses and industry sectors for the remanufactured solvents, and
(
5
) A certification from the remanufacturer stating “on behalf of [insert remanufacturer facility name], I certify that this facility is a remanufacturer under pharmaceutical manufacturing (NAICS 325412), basic organic chemical manufacturing (NAICS 325199), plastics and resins manufacturing (NAICS 325211), and/or the paints and coatings manufacturing sectors (NAICS 325510), and will accept the spent solvent(s) for the sole purpose of remanufacturing into commercial-grade solvent(s) that will be used for reacting, extracting, purifying, or blending chemicals (or for rinsing out the process lines associated with these functions) or for use as product ingredient(s). I also certify that the remanufacturing equipment, vents, and tanks are equipped with and are operating air emission controls in compliance with the appropriate Clean Air Act regulations under 40 CFR part 60, part 61 or part 63, or, absent such Clean Air Act standards for the particular operation or piece of equipment covered by the remanufacturing exclusion, are in compliance with the appropriate standards in 40 CFR part 261, subparts AA (vents), BB (equipment) and CC (tank storage),”;
(C) Maintain records of shipments and confirmations of receipts for a period of three years from the dates of the shipments;
(D) Prior to remanufacturing, store the hazardous spent solvents in tanks or containers that meet technical standards found in subparts I and J of 40 CFR part 261, with the tanks and containers being labeled or otherwise having an immediately available record of the material being stored;
(E) During remanufacturing, and during storage of the hazardous secondary materials prior to remanufacturing, the remanufacturer certifies that the remanufacturing equipment, vents, and tanks are equipped with and are operating air emission controls in compliance with the appropriate Clean Air Act regulations under 40 CFR part 60, part 61 or part 63; or, absent such Clean Air Act standards for the particular operation or piece of equipment covered by the remanufacturing exclusion, are in compliance with the appropriate standards in 40 CFR part 261 subparts AA (vents), BB (equipment) and CC (tank storage); and
(F) Meet the requirements prohibiting speculative accumulation per 40 CFR 261.1(c)(8).
(b)
Solid wastes which are not hazardous wastes.
The following solid wastes are not hazardous wastes:
(1) Household waste, including household waste that has been collected, transported, stored, treated, disposed, recovered (e.g., refuse-derived fuel) or reused. “Household waste” means any material (including garbage, trash and sanitary wastes in septic tanks) derived from households (including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day-use recreation areas). A resource recovery facility managing municipal solid waste shall not be
deemed to be treating, storing, disposing of, or otherwise managing hazardous wastes for the purposes of regulation under this subtitle, if such facility:
(i) Receives and burns only
(A) Household waste (from single and multiple dwellings, hotels, motels, and other residential sources) and
(B) Solid waste from commercial or industrial sources that does not contain hazardous waste; and
(ii) Such facility does not accept hazardous wastes and the owner or operator of such facility has established contractual requirements or other appropriate notification or inspection procedures to assure that hazardous wastes are not received at or burned in such facility.
(2) Solid wastes generated by any of the following and which are returned to the soils as fertilizers:
(i) The growing and harvesting of agricultural crops.
(ii) The raising of animals, including animal manures.
(3) Mining overburden returned to the mine site.
(4)(i) Fly ash waste, bottom ash waste, slag waste, and flue gas emission control waste generated primarily from the combustion of coal or other fossil fuels, except as provided by § 266.112 of this chapter for facilities that burn or process hazardous waste.
(ii) The following wastes generated primarily from processes that support the combustion of coal or other fossil fuels that are co-disposed with the wastes in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, except as provided by § 266.112 of this chapter for facilities that burn or process hazardous waste:
(A)
Coal pile run-off.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, coal pile run-off means any precipitation that drains off coal piles.
(B)
Boiler cleaning solutions.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, boiler cleaning solutions means water solutions and chemical solutions used to clean the fire-side and water-side of the boiler.
(C)
Boiler blowdown.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, boiler blowdown means water purged from boilers used to generate steam.
(D)
Process water treatment and demineralizer regeneration wastes.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, process water treatment and demineralizer regeneration wastes means sludges, rinses, and spent resins generated from processes to remove dissolved gases, suspended solids, and dissolved chemical salts from combustion system process water.
(E)
Cooling tower blowdown.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, cooling tower blowdown means water purged from a closed cycle cooling system. Closed cycle cooling systems include cooling towers, cooling ponds, or spray canals.
(F)
Air heater and precipitator washes.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, air heater and precipitator washes means wastes from cleaning air preheaters and electrostatic precipitators.
(G)
Effluents from floor and yard drains and sumps.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, effluents from floor and yard drains and sumps means wastewaters, such as wash water, collected by or from floor drains, equipment drains, and sumps located inside the power plant building; and wastewaters, such as rain runoff, collected by yard drains and sumps located outside the power plant building.
(H)
Wastewater treatment sludges.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, wastewater treatment sludges refers to sludges generated from the treatment of wastewaters specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.
(5) Drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy.
(6)(i) Wastes which fail the test for the Toxicity Characteristic because chromium is present or are listed in subpart D due to the presence of chromium, which do not fail the test for the Toxicity Characteristic for any other constituent or are not listed due to the presence of any other constituent, and which do not fail the test for any other characteristic, if it is shown by a waste generator or by waste generators that:
(A) The chromium in the waste is exclusively (or nearly exclusively) trivalent chromium; and
(B) The waste is generated from an industrial process which uses trivalent chromium exclusively (or nearly exclusively) and the process does not generate hexavalent chromium; and
(C) The waste is typically and frequently managed in non-oxidizing environments.
(ii) Specific wastes which meet the standard in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) (A), (B), and (C) (so long as they do not fail the test for the toxicity characteristic for any other constituent, and do not exhibit any other characteristic) are:
(A) Chrome (blue) trimmings generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry; hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; retan/wet finish; no beamhouse; through-the-blue; and shearling.
(B) Chrome (blue) shavings generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry: Hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; retan/wet finish; no beamhouse; through-the-blue; and shearling.
(C) Buffing dust generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry; hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; retan/wet finish; no beamhouse; through-the-blue.
(D) Sewer screenings generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry: Hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; retan/wet finish; no beamhouse; through-the-blue; and shearling.
(E) Wastewater treatment sludges generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry: Hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; retan/wet finish; no beamhouse; through-the-blue; and shearling.
(F) Wastewater treatment sludges generated by the following subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing industry: Hair pulp/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; hair save/chrome tan/retan/wet finish; and through-the-blue.
(G) Waste scrap leather from the leather tanning industry, the shoe manufacturing industry, and other leather product manufacturing industries.
(H) Wastewater treatment sludges from the production of TiO
2
pigment using chromium-bearing ores by the chloride process.
(7) Solid waste from the extraction, beneficiation, and processing of ores and minerals (including coal, phosphate rock, and overburden from the mining of uranium ore), except as provided by § 266.112 of this chapter for facilities that burn or process hazardous waste.
(i) For purposes of § 261.4(b)(7) beneficiation of ores and minerals is restricted to the following activities; crushing; grinding; washing; dissolution; crystallization; filtration; sorting; sizing; drying; sintering; pelletizing; briquetting; calcining to remove water and/or carbon dioxide; roasting, autoclaving, and/or chlorination in preparation for leaching (except where the roasting (and/or autoclaving and/or chlorination)/leaching sequence produces a final or intermediate product that does not undergo further beneficiation or processing); gravity concentration; magnetic separation; electrostatic separation; flotation; ion exchange; solvent extraction; electrowinning; precipitation; amalgamation; and heap, dump, vat, tank, and in situ leaching.
(ii) For the purposes of § 261.4(b)(7), solid waste from the processing of ores and minerals includes only the following wastes as generated:
(A) Slag from primary copper processing;
(B) Slag from primary lead processing;
(C) Red and brown muds from bauxite refining;
(D) Phosphogypsum from phosphoric acid production;
(E) Slag from elemental phosphorus production;
(F) Gasifier ash from coal gasification;
(G) Process wastewater from coal gasification;
(H) Calcium sulfate wastewater treatment plant sludge from primary copper processing;
(I) Slag tailings from primary copper processing;
(J) Fluorogypsum from hydrofluoric acid production;
(K) Process wastewater from hydrofluoric acid production;
(L) Air pollution control dust/sludge from iron blast furnaces;
(M) Iron blast furnace slag;
(N) Treated residue from roasting/leaching of chrome ore;
(O) Process wastewater from primary magnesium processing by the anhydrous process;
(P) Process wastewater from phosphoric acid production;
(Q) Basic oxygen furnace and open hearth furnace air pollution control dust/sludge from carbon steel production;
(R) Basic oxygen furnace and open hearth furnace slag from carbon steel production;
(S) Chloride process waste solids from titanium tetrachloride production;
(T) Slag from primary zinc processing.
(iii) A residue derived from co-processing mineral processing secondary materials with normal beneficiation raw materials or with normal mineral processing raw materials remains excluded under paragraph (b) of this section if the owner or operator:
(A) Processes at least 50 percent by weight normal beneficiation raw materials or normal mineral processing raw materials; and,
(B) Legitimately reclaims the secondary mineral processing materials.
(8) Cement kiln dust waste, except as provided by § 266.112 of this chapter for facilities that burn or process hazardous waste.
(9) Solid waste which consists of discarded arsenical-treated wood or wood products which fails the test for the Toxicity Characteristic for Hazardous Waste Codes D004 through D017 and which is not a hazardous waste for any other reason if the waste is generated by persons who utilize the arsenical-treated wood and wood products for these materials' intended end use.
(10) Petroleum-contaminated media and debris that fail the test for the Toxicity Characteristic of § 261.24 (Hazardous Waste Codes D018 through D043 only) and are subject to the corrective action regulations under part 280 of this chapter.
(11) Injected groundwater that is hazardous only because it exhibits the Toxicity Characteristic (Hazardous Waste Codes D018 through D043 only) in § 261.24 of this part that is reinjected through an underground injection well pursuant to free phase hydrocarbon recovery operations undertaken at petroleum refineries, petroleum marketing terminals, petroleum bulk plants, petroleum pipelines, and petroleum transportation spill sites until January 25, 1993. This extension applies to recovery operations in existence, or for which contracts have been issued, on or before March 25, 1991. For groundwater returned through infiltration galleries from such operations at petroleum refineries, marketing terminals, and bulk plants, until [insert date six months after publication]. New operations involving injection wells (beginning after March 25, 1991) will qualify for this compliance date extension (until January 25, 1993) only if:
(i) Operations are performed pursuant to a written state agreement that includes a provision to assess the groundwater and the need for further remediation once the free phase recovery is completed; and
(ii) A copy of the written agreement has been submitted to: Waste Identification Branch (5304), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.
(12) Used chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants from totally enclosed heat transfer equipment, including mobile air conditioning systems, mobile refrigeration, and commercial and industrial air conditioning and refrigeration systems that use chlorofluorocarbons as the heat transfer fluid in a refrigeration cycle, provided the refrigerant is reclaimed for further use.
(13) Non-terne plated used oil filters that are not mixed with wastes listed in subpart D of this part if these oil filters have been gravity hot-drained using one of the following methods:
(i) Puncturing the filter anti-drain back valve or the filter dome end and hot-draining;
(ii) Hot-draining and crushing;
(iii) Dismantling and hot-draining; or
(iv) Any other equivalent hot-draining method that will remove used oil.
(14) Used oil re-refining distillation bottoms that are used as feedstock to manufacture asphalt products.
(15) Leachate or gas condensate collected from landfills where certain solid wastes have been disposed, provided that:
(i) The solid wastes disposed would meet one or more of the listing descriptions for Hazardous Waste Codes K169, K170, K171, K172, K174, K175, K176, K177, K178 and K181 if these wastes had been generated after the effective date of the listing;
(ii) The solid wastes described in paragraph (b)(15)(i) of this section were disposed prior to the effective date of the listing;
(iii) The leachate or gas condensate do not exhibit any characteristic of hazardous waste nor are derived from any other listed hazardous waste;
(iv) Discharge of the leachate or gas condensate, including leachate or gas condensate transferred from the landfill to a POTW by truck, rail, or dedicated pipe, is subject to regulation under sections 307(b) or 402 of the Clean Water Act.
(v) As of February 13, 2001, leachate or gas condensate derived from K169-K172 is no longer exempt if it is stored or managed in a surface impoundment prior to discharge. As of November 21, 2003, leachate or gas condensate derived from K176, K177, and K178 is no longer exempt if it is stored or managed in a surface impoundment prior to discharge. After February 26, 2007, leachate or gas condensate derived from K181 will no longer be exempt if it is stored or managed in a surface impoundment prior to discharge. There is one exception: if the surface impoundment is used to temporarily store leachate or gas condensate in response to an emergency situation (e.g., shutdown of wastewater treatment system), provided the impoundment has a double liner, and provided the leachate or gas condensate is removed from the impoundment and continues to be managed in compliance with the conditions of this paragraph (b)(15)(v) after the emergency ends.
(16) [Reserved]
(17) Solid waste that would otherwise meet the definition of low-level mixed wastes (LLMW) pursuant to § 266.210 of this chapter that is generated at the Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. (OMP Spring House) research and development facility in Spring House, Pennsylvania and treated on-site using a bench-scale high temperature catalytic oxidation unit is not a hazardous waste provided that:
(i) The total volume of LLMW generated and treated is no greater than 50 liters/year, (ii) OMP Spring House submits a written report to the EPA Region III office once every six months beginning six months after June 27, 2005, that must contain the following:
(A) Analysis demonstrating the destruction and removal efficiency of the treatment technology for all organic components of the wastestream,
(B) Analysis demonstrating the capture efficiencies of the treatment technology for all radioactive components of the wastestream and an estimate of the amount of radioactivity released during the reporting period,
(C) Analysis (including concentrations of constituents, including inorganic constituents, present and radioactivity) of the wastestream prior to and after treatment,
(D) Volume of the wastestream being treated per batch, as well as a total for the duration of the reporting period, and
(E) Final disposition of the radioactive residuals from the treatment of the wastestream.
(iii) OMP Spring House makes no significant changes to the design or operation of the high temperature catalytic oxidation unit or the wastestream.
(iv) This exclusion will remain in affect for 5 years from June 27, 2005.
(18) Solvent-contaminated wipes, except for wipes that are hazardous waste due to the presence of trichloroethylene, that are sent for disposal are not hazardous wastes from the point of generation provided that
(i) The solvent-contaminated wipes, when accumulated, stored, and transported, are contained in non-leaking, closed containers that are labeled “Excluded Solvent-Contaminated Wipes.” The containers must be able to contain free liquids, should free liquids occur.
During accumulation, a container is considered closed when there is complete contact between the fitted lid and the rim, except when it is necessary to add or remove solvent-contaminated wipes. When the container is full, or when the solvent-contaminated wipes are no longer being accumulated, or when the container is being transported, the container must be sealed with all lids properly and securely affixed to the container and all openings tightly bound or closed sufficiently to prevent leaks and emissions;
(ii) The solvent-contaminated wipes may be accumulated by the generator for up to 180 days from the start date of accumulation for each container prior to being sent for disposal;
(iii) At the point of being transported for disposal, the solvent-contaminated wipes must contain no free liquids as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter.
(iv) Free liquids removed from the solvent-contaminated wipes or from the container holding the wipes must be managed according to the applicable regulations found in 40 CFR parts 260 through 273;
(v) Generators must maintain at their site the following documentation:
(A) Name and address of the landfill or combustor that is receiving the solvent-contaminated wipes;
(B) Documentation that the 180 day accumulation time limit in 40 CFR 261.4(b)(18)(ii) is being met;
(C) Description of the process the generator is using to ensure solvent-contaminated wipes contain no free liquids at the point of being transported for disposal;
(vi) The solvent-contaminated wipes are sent for disposal
(A) To a municipal solid waste landfill regulated under 40 CFR part 258, including 40 CFR 258.40, or to a hazardous waste landfill regulated under 40 CFR parts 264 or 265; or
(B) To a municipal waste combustor or other combustion facility regulated under section 129 of the Clean Air Act or to a hazardous waste combustor, boiler, or industrial furnace regulated under 40 CFR parts 264, 265, or 266 subpart H.
(c) Hazardous wastes which are exempted from certain regulations. A hazardous waste which is generated in a product or raw material storage tank, a product or raw material transport vehicle or vessel, a product or raw material pipeline, or in a manufacturing process unit or an associated non-waste-treatment-manufacturing unit, is not subject to regulation under parts 262 through 265, 268, 270, 271 and 124 of this chapter or to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA until it exits the unit in which it was generated, unless the unit is a surface impoundment, or unless the hazardous waste remains in the unit more than 90 days after the unit ceases to be operated for manufacturing, or for storage or transportation of product or raw materials.
(d)
Samples.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (4) of this section, a sample of solid waste or a sample of water, soil, or air, which is collected for the sole purpose of testing to determine its characteristics or composition, is not subject to any requirements of this part or parts 262 through 268 or part 270 or part 124 of this chapter or to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA, when:
(i) The sample is being transported to a laboratory for the purpose of testing; or
(ii) The sample is being transported back to the sample collector after testing; or
(iii) The sample is being stored by the sample collector before transport to a laboratory for testing; or
(iv) The sample is being stored in a laboratory before testing; or
(v) The sample is being stored in a laboratory after testing but before it is returned to the sample collector; or
(vi) The sample is being stored temporarily in the laboratory after testing for a specific purpose (for example, until conclusion of a court case or enforcement action where further testing of the sample may be necessary).
(2) In order to qualify for the exemption in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, a sample collector shipping samples to a laboratory and a laboratory returning samples to a sample collector must:
(i) Comply with U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), U.S. Postal Service (USPS), or any other applicable shipping requirements; or
(ii) Comply with the following requirements if the sample collector determines that DOT, USPS, or other shipping requirements do not apply to the shipment of the sample:
(A) Assure that the following information accompanies the sample:
(
1
) The sample collector's name, mailing address, and telephone number;
(
2
) The laboratory's name, mailing address, and telephone number;
(
3
) The quantity of the sample;
(
4
) The date of shipment; and
(
5
) A description of the sample.
(B) Package the sample so that it does not leak, spill, or vaporize from its packaging.
(3) This exemption does not apply if the laboratory determines that the waste is hazardous but the laboratory is no longer meeting any of the conditions stated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(4) In order to qualify for the exemption in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the mass of a sample that will be exported to a foreign laboratory or that will be imported to a U.S. laboratory from a foreign source must additionally not exceed 25 kg.
(e)
Treatability Study Samples.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (4) of this section, persons who generate or collect samples for the purpose of conducting treatability studies as defined in 40 CFR 260.10, are not subject to any requirement of this part, 40 CFR parts 262 and 263, or to the notification requirements of Section 3010 of RCRA, nor are such samples included in the quantity determinations of 40 CFR 262.13 and the accumulation limits in 40 CFR 262.14(a)(3), 40 CFR 262.14(a)(4), and 40 CFR 262.16(b)(1) when:
(i) The sample is being collected and prepared for transportation by the generator or sample collector; or
(ii) The sample is being accumulated or stored by the generator or sample collector prior to transportation to a laboratory or testing facility; or
(iii) The sample is being transported to the laboratory or testing facility for the purpose of conducting a treatability study.
(2) The exemption in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is applicable to samples of hazardous waste being collected and shipped for the purpose of conducting treatability studies provided that:
(i) The generator or sample collector uses (in “treatability studies”) no more than 10,000 kg of media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 1000 kg of non-acute hazardous waste other than contaminated media, 1 kg of acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste for each process being evaluated for each generated waste stream; and
(ii) The mass of each sample shipment does not exceed 10,000 kg; the 10,000 kg quantity may be all media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, or may include 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste, 1000 kg of hazardous waste, and 1 kg of acute hazardous waste; and
(iii) The sample must be packaged so that it will not leak, spill, or vaporize from its packaging during shipment and the requirements of paragraph A or B of this subparagraph are met.
(A) The transportation of each sample shipment complies with U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), U.S. Postal Service (USPS), or any other applicable shipping requirements; or
(B) If the DOT, USPS, or other shipping requirements do not apply to the shipment of the sample, the following information must accompany the sample:
(
1
) The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the originator of the sample;
(
2
) The name, address, and telephone number of the facility that will perform the treatability study;
(
3
) The quantity of the sample;
(
4
) The date of shipment; and
(
5
) A description of the sample, including its EPA Hazardous Waste Number.
(iv) The sample is shipped to a laboratory or testing facility which is exempt under § 261.4(f) or has an appropriate RCRA permit or interim status.
(v) The generator or sample collector maintains the following records for a period ending 3 years after completion of the treatability study:
(A) Copies of the shipping documents;
(B) A copy of the contract with the facility conducting the treatability study;
(C) Documentation showing:
(
1
) The amount of waste shipped under this exemption;
(
2
) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the laboratory or testing facility that received the waste;
(
3
) The date the shipment was made; and
(
4
) Whether or not unused samples and residues were returned to the generator.
(vi) The generator reports the information required under paragraph (e)(2)(v)(C) of this section in its biennial report.
(3) The Regional Administrator may grant requests on a case-by-case basis for up to an additional two years for treatability studies involving bioremediation. The Regional Administrator may grant requests on a case-by-case basis for quantity limits in excess of those specified in paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (ii) and (f)(4) of this section, for up to an additional 5000 kg of media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 500 kg of non-acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste and 1 kg of acute hazardous waste:
(i) In response to requests for authorization to ship, store and conduct treatability studies on additional quantities in advance of commencing treatability studies. Factors to be considered in reviewing such requests include the nature of the technology, the type of process (e.g., batch versus continuous), size of the unit undergoing testing (particularly in relation to scale-up considerations), the time/quantity of material required to reach steady state operating conditions, or test design considerations such as mass balance calculations.
(ii) In response to requests for authorization to ship, store and conduct treatability studies on additional quantities after initiation or completion of initial treatability studies, when: There has been an equipment or mechanical failure during the conduct of a treatability study; there is a need to verify the results of a previously conducted treatability study; there is a need to study and analyze alternative techniques within a previously evaluated treatment process; or there is a need to do further evaluation of an ongoing treatability study to determine final specifications for treatment.
(iii) The additional quantities and timeframes allowed in paragraph (e)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section are subject to all the provisions in paragraphs (e) (1) and (e)(2) (iii) through (vi) of this section. The generator or sample collector must apply to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the sample is collected and provide in writing the following information:
(A) The reason why the generator or sample collector requires additional time or quantity of sample for treatability study evaluation and the additional time or quantity needed;
(B) Documentation accounting for all samples of hazardous waste from the waste stream which have been sent for or undergone treatability studies including the date each previous sample from the waste stream was shipped, the quantity of each previous shipment, the laboratory or testing facility to which it was shipped, what treatability study processes were conducted on each sample shipped, and the available results on each treatability study;
(C) A description of the technical modifications or change in specifications which will be evaluated and the expected results;
(D) If such further study is being required due to equipment or mechanical failure, the applicant must include information regarding the reason for the failure or breakdown and also include what procedures or equipment improvements have been made to protect against further breakdowns; and
(E) Such other information that the Regional Administrator considers necessary.
(4) In order to qualify for the exemption in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the mass of a sample that will be exported to a foreign laboratory or testing facility, or that will be imported to a U.S. laboratory or testing facility from a foreign source must additionally not exceed 25 kg.
(f)
Samples Undergoing Treatability Studies at Laboratories and Testing Facilities.
Samples undergoing treatability studies and the laboratory or testing facility conducting such treatability studies (to the extent such facilities are not otherwise subject to RCRA requirements) are not subject to any requirement of this part, part 124, parts 262-266, 268, and 270, or to the notification requirements of Section 3010 of RCRA provided that the conditions of paragraphs (f) (1) through (11) of this section are met. A mobile treatment unit (MTU) may qualify as a testing facility subject to paragraphs (f) (1) through (11) of this section. Where a group of MTUs are located at the same site, the limitations specified in (f) (1) through (11) of this section apply to the entire group of MTUs collectively as if the group were one MTU.
(1) No less than 45 days before conducting treatability studies, the facility notifies the Regional Administrator, or State Director (if located in an authorized State), in writing that it intends to conduct treatability studies under this paragraph.
(2) The laboratory or testing facility conducting the treatability study has an EPA identification number.
(3) No more than a total of 10,000 kg of “as received” media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste or 250 kg of other “as received” hazardous waste is subject to initiation of treatment in all treatability studies in any single day. “As received” waste refers to the waste as received in the shipment from the generator or sample collector.
(4) The quantity of “as received” hazardous waste stored at the facility for the purpose of evaluation in treatability studies does not exceed 10,000 kg, the total of which can include 10,000 kg of media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste, 1000 kg of non-acute hazardous wastes other than contaminated media, and 1 kg of acute hazardous waste. This quantity limitation does not include treatment materials (including nonhazardous solid waste) added to “as received” hazardous waste.
(5) No more than 90 days have elapsed since the treatability study for the sample was completed, or no more than one year (two years for treatability studies involving bioremediation) have elapsed since the generator or sample collector shipped the sample to the laboratory or testing facility, whichever date first occurs. Up to 500 kg of treated material from a particular waste stream from treatability studies may be archived for future evaluation up to five years from the date of initial receipt. Quantities of materials archived are counted against the total storage limit for the facility.
(6) The treatability study does not involve the placement of hazardous waste on the land or open burning of hazardous waste.
(7) The facility maintains records for 3 years following completion of each study that show compliance with the treatment rate limits and the storage time and quantity limits. The following specific information must be included for each treatability study conducted:
(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the generator or sample collector of each waste sample;
(ii) The date the shipment was received;
(iii) The quantity of waste accepted;
(iv) The quantity of “as received” waste in storage each day;
(v) The date the treatment study was initiated and the amount of “as received” waste introduced to treatment each day;
(vi) The date the treatability study was concluded;
(vii) The date any unused sample or residues generated from the treatability study were returned to the generator or sample collector or, if sent to a designated facility, the name of the facility and the EPA identification number.
(8) The facility keeps, on-site, a copy of the treatability study contract and all shipping papers associated with the transport of treatability study samples to and from the facility for a period ending 3 years from the completion date of each treatability study.
(9) The facility prepares and submits a report to the Regional Administrator, or state Director (if located in
an authorized state), by March 15 of each year, that includes the following information for the previous calendar year:
(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the facility conducting the treatability studies;
(ii) The types (by process) of treatability studies conducted;
(iii) The names and addresses of persons for whom studies have been conducted (including their EPA identification numbers);
(iv) The total quantity of waste in storage each day;
(v) The quantity and types of waste subjected to treatability studies;
(vi) When each treatability study was conducted;
(vii) The final disposition of residues and unused sample from each treatability study.
(10) The facility determines whether any unused sample or residues generated by the treatability study are hazardous waste under § 261.3 and, if so, are subject to parts 261 through 268, and part 270 of this chapter, unless the residues and unused samples are returned to the sample originator under the § 261.4(e) exemption.
(11) The facility notifies the Regional Administrator, or State Director (if located in an authorized State), by letter when the facility is no longer planning to conduct any treatability studies at the site.
(g)
Dredged material that is not a hazardous waste.
Dredged material that is subject to the requirements of a permit that has been issued under 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.1344) or section 103 of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1413) is not a hazardous waste. For this paragraph (g), the following definitions apply:
(1) The term
dredged material
has the same meaning as defined in 40 CFR 232.2;
(2) The term
permit
means:
(i) A permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) or an approved State under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344);
(ii) A permit issued by the Corps under section 103 of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1413); or
(iii) In the case of Corps civil works projects, the administrative equivalent of the permits referred to in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, as provided for in Corps regulations (for example, see 33 CFR 336.1, 336.2, and 337.6).
(h)
Carbon dioxide stream injected for geologic sequestration.
Carbon dioxide streams that are captured and transported for purposes of injection into an underground injection well subject to the requirements for Class VI Underground Injection Control wells, including the requirements in 40 CFR Parts 144 and 146 of the Underground Injection Control Program of the Safe Drinking Water Act, are not a hazardous waste, provided the following conditions are met:
(1) Transportation of the carbon dioxide stream must be in compliance with U.S. Department of Transportation requirements, including the pipeline safety laws (49 U.S.C. 60101 et seq.) and regulations (49 CFR Parts 190-199) of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and pipeline safety regulations adopted and administered by a state authority pursuant to a certification under 49 U.S.C. 60105, as applicable.
(2) Injection of the carbon dioxide stream must be in compliance with the applicable requirements for Class VI Underground Injection Control wells, including the applicable requirements in 40 CFR Parts 144 and 146;
(3) No hazardous wastes shall be mixed with, or otherwise co-injected with, the carbon dioxide stream; and
(4)(i) Any generator of a carbon dioxide stream, who claims that a carbon dioxide stream is excluded under this paragraph (h), must have an authorized representative (as defined in 40 CFR 260.10) sign a certification statement worded as follows:
I certify under penalty of law that the carbon dioxide stream that I am claiming to be excluded under 40 CFR 261.4(h) has not been mixed with hazardous wastes, and I have transported the carbon dioxide stream in compliance with (or have contracted with a pipeline operator or transporter to transport the carbon dioxide stream in compliance with) Department of Transportation requirements, including the pipeline safety laws (49 U.S.C. 60101 et seq.) and regulations (49 CFR
Parts 190-199) of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and the pipeline safety regulations adopted and administered by a state authority pursuant to a certification under 49 U.S.C. 60105, as applicable, for injection into a well subject to the requirements for the Class VI Underground Injection Control Program of the Safe Drinking Water Act.
(ii) Any Class VI Underground Injection Control well owner or operator, who claims that a carbon dioxide stream is excluded under paragraph (h) of this section, must have an authorized representative (as defined in 40 CFR 260.10) sign a certification statement worded as follows:
I certify under penalty of law that the carbon dioxide stream that I am claiming to be excluded under 40 CFR 261.4(h) has not been mixed with, or otherwise co-injected with, hazardous waste at the Underground Injection Control (UIC) Class VI permitted facility, and that injection of the carbon dioxide stream is in compliance with the applicable requirements for UIC Class VI wells, including the applicable requirements in 40 CFR Parts 144 and 146.
(iii) The signed certification statement must be kept on-site for no less than three years, and must be made available within 72 hours of a written request from the Administrator, Regional Administrator, or state Director (if located in an authorized state), or their designee. The signed certification statement must be renewed every year that the exclusion is claimed, by having an authorized representative (as defined in 40 CFR 260.10) annually prepare and sign a new copy of the certification statement within one year of the date of the previous statement. The signed certification statement must also be readily accessible on the facility's publicly-available Web site (if such Web site exists) as a public notification with the title of “Carbon Dioxide Stream Certification” at the time the exclusion is claimed.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Airbag waste.
(1) Airbag waste at the airbag waste handler or during transport to an airbag waste collection facility or designated facility is not subject to regulation under parts 262 through 268, part 270, or part 124 of this chapter, and is not subject to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA provided that:
(i) The airbag waste is accumulated in a quantity of no more than 250 airbag modules or airbag inflators, for no longer than 180 days;
(ii) The airbag waste is packaged in a container designed to address the risk posed by the airbag waste and labeled “Airbag Waste-Do Not Reuse”;
(iii) The airbag waste is sent directly to either:
(A) An airbag waste collection facility in the United States under the control of a vehicle manufacturer or their authorized representative, or under the control of an authorized party administering a remedy program in response to a recall under the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
(B) A designated facility as defined in 40 CFR 260.10;
(iv) The transport of the airbag waste complies with all applicable U.S. Department of Transportation regulations in 49 CFR part 171 through 180 during transit;
(v) The airbag waste handler maintains at the handler facility for no less than three (3) years records of all off-site shipments of airbag waste and all confirmations of receipt from the receiving facility. For each shipment, these records must, at a minimum, contain the name of the transporter and date of the shipment; name and address of receiving facility; and the type and quantity of airbag waste (
i.e.,
airbag modules or airbag inflators) in the shipment. Confirmations of receipt must include the name and address of the receiving facility; the type and quantity of the airbag waste (
i.e.,
airbag modules and airbag inflators) received; and the date which it was received. Shipping records and confirmations of receipt must be made available for inspection and may be satisfied by routine business records (
e.g.,
electronic or paper financial records, bills of lading, copies of DOT shipping papers, or electronic confirmations of receipt).
(2) Once the airbag waste arrives at an airbag waste collection facility or designated facility, it becomes subject to all applicable hazardous waste regulations, and the facility receiving airbag waste is considered the hazardous waste generator for the purposes of the hazardous waste regulations and must
comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 262.
(3) Reuse in vehicles of defective airbag modules or defective airbag inflators subject to a recall under the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is considered sham recycling and prohibited under 40 CFR 261.2(g).
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 261.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 261.5
[Reserved]
§ 261.6
Requirements for recyclable materials.
(a)(1) Hazardous wastes that are recycled are subject to the requirements for generators, transporters, and storage facilities of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, except for the materials listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section. Hazardous wastes that are recycled will be known as “recyclable materials.”
(2) The following recyclable materials are not subject to the requirements of this section but are regulated under subparts C through Q of part 266 of this chapter and all applicable provisions in parts 268, 270, and 124 of this chapter.
(i) Recyclable materials used in a manner constituting disposal (40 CFR part 266, subpart C);
(ii) Hazardous wastes burned (as defined in section 266.100(a)) in boilers and industrial furnaces that are not regulated under subpart O of part 264 or 265 of this chapter (40 CFR part 266, subpart H);
(iii) Recyclable materials from which precious metals are reclaimed (40 CFR part 266, subpart F);
(iv) Spent lead-acid batteries that are being reclaimed (40 CFR part 266, subpart G).
(v) Ignitable spent refrigerants recycled for reuse (40 CFR part 266, subpart Q).
(3) The following recyclable materials are not subject to regulation under parts 262 through parts 268, 270 or 124 of this chapter, and are not subject to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA:
(i) Industrial ethyl alcohol that is reclaimed except that exports and imports of such recyclable materials must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 262, subpart H.
(A) The person initiating a shipment for reclamation in a foreign country, and any intermediary arranging for the shipment, must comply with the requirements applicable to an exporter in § 262.83 of this chapter with the exception of § 262.83(c);
(B) Transporters transporting a shipment for export or import must comply with the movement document requirements listed in § 263.20(a)(2) and (c) of this chapter.
(ii) Scrap metal that is not excluded under § 261.4(a)(13);
(iii) Fuels produced from the refining of oil-bearing hazardous waste along with normal process streams at a petroleum refining facility if such wastes result from normal petroleum refining, production, and transportation practices (this exemption does not apply to fuels produced from oil recovered from oil-bearing hazardous waste, where such recovered oil is already excluded under § 261.4(a)(12);
(iv)(A) Hazardous waste fuel produced from oil-bearing hazardous wastes from petroleum refining, production, or transportation practices, or produced from oil reclaimed from such hazardous wastes, where such hazardous wastes are reintroduced into a process that does not use distillation or does not produce products from crude oil so long as the resulting fuel meets the used oil specification under § 279.11 of this chapter and so long as no other hazardous wastes are used to produce the hazardous waste fuel;
(B) Hazardous waste fuel produced from oil-bearing hazardous waste from petroleum refining production, and transportation practices, where such hazardous wastes are reintroduced into a refining process after a point at which contaminants are removed, so long as the fuel meets the used oil fuel specification under § 279.11 of this chapter; and
(C) Oil reclaimed from oil-bearing hazardous wastes from petroleum refining, production, and transportation practices, which reclaimed oil is burned as a fuel without reintroduction
to a refining process, so long as the reclaimed oil meets the used oil fuel specification under § 279.11 of this chapter.
(4) Used oil that is recycled and is also a hazardous waste solely because it exhibits a hazardous characteristic is not subject to the requirements of parts 260 through 268 of this chapter, but is regulated under part 279 of this chapter. Used oil that is recycled includes any used oil which is reused, following its original use, for any purpose (including the purpose for which the oil was originally used). Such term includes, but is not limited to, oil which is re-refined, reclaimed, burned for energy recovery, or reprocessed.
(5) Hazardous waste that is exported or imported for purpose of recovery is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 262, subpart H.
(b) Generators and transporters of recyclable materials are subject to the applicable requirements of parts 262 and 263 of this chapter and the notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) Owners and operators of facilities that store recyclable materials before they are recycled are regulated under all applicable provisions of subparts A though L and AA through DD of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, and under 40 CFR parts 124, 266, 267, 268, and 270 and the notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. (The recycling process itself is exempt from regulation except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.)
(2) Owners or operators of facilities that recycle recyclable materials without storing them before they are recycled are subject to the following requirements, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA;
(ii) Sections 265.71 and 265.72 (dealing with the use of the manifest and manifest discrepancies) of this chapter.
(iii) Section 261.6(d) of this chapter.
(iv) Section 265.75 of this chapter (biennial reporting requirements).
(d) Owners or operators of facilities subject to RCRA permitting requirements with hazardous waste management units that recycle hazardous wastes are subject to the requirements of subparts AA and BB of part 264, 265 or 267 of this chapter.
[50 FR 49203, Nov. 29, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 261.6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 261.7
Residues of hazardous waste in empty containers.
(a)(1) Any hazardous waste remaining in either: an empty container; or an inner liner removed from an empty container, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, is not subject to regulation under parts 261 through 268, 270, or 124 this chapter or to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA.
(2) Any hazardous waste in either a container that is not empty or an inner liner removed from a container that is not empty, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, is subject to regulation under parts 261 through 268, 270 and 124 of this chapter and to the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA.
(b)(1) A container or an inner liner removed from a container that has held any hazardous waste, except a waste that is a compressed gas or that is identified as an acute hazardous waste listed in §§ 261.31 or 261.33(e) of this chapter is empty if:
(i) All wastes have been removed that can be removed using the practices commonly employed to remove materials from that type of container, e.g., pouring, pumping, and aspirating,
and
(ii) No more than 2.5 centimeters (one inch) of residue remain on the bottom of the container or inner liner,
or
(iii)(A) No more than 3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the container or inner liner if the container is less than or equal to 119 gallons in size; or
(B) No more than 0.3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the container or inner liner if the container is greater than 119 gallons in size.
(2) A container that has held a hazardous waste that is a compressed gas is empty when the pressure in the container approaches atmospheric.
(3) A container or an inner liner removed from a container that has held an acute hazardous waste listed in §§ 261.31 or 261.33(e) is empty if:
(i) The container or inner liner has been triple rinsed using a solvent capable of removing the commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate;
(ii) The container or inner liner has been cleaned by another method that has been shown in the scientific literature, or by tests conducted by the generator, to achieve equivalent removal; or
(iii) In the case of a container, the inner liner that prevented contact of the commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate with the container, has been removed.
(c) Containers of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals are subject to § 266.507 for determining when they are considered empty, in lieu of this section, except as provided by § 266.507(c) and (d).
[45 FR 78529, Nov. 25, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 36097, Aug. 18, 1982; 48 FR 14294, Apr. 1, 1983; 50 FR 1999, Jan. 14, 1985; 51 FR 40637, Nov. 7, 1986; 70 FR 10815, Mar. 4, 2005; 70 FR 53453, Sept. 8, 2005; 75 FR 13002, Mar. 18, 2010; 84 FR 5939, Feb. 22, 2019]
§ 261.8
PCB wastes regulated under Toxic Substance Control Act.
The disposal of PCB-containing dielectric fluid and electric equipment containing such fluid authorized for use and regulated under part 761 of this chapter and that are hazardous only because they fail the test for the Toxicity Characteristic (Hazardous Waste Codes D018 through D043 only) are exempt from regulation under parts 261 through 265, and parts 268, 270, and 124 of this chapter, and the notification requirements of section 3010 of RCRA.
[55 FR 11862, Mar. 29, 1990]
§ 261.9
Requirements for Universal Waste.
The wastes listed in this section are exempt from regulation under parts 262 through 270 of this chapter except as specified in part 273 of this chapter and, therefore are not fully regulated as hazardous waste. The wastes listed in this section are subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 273:
(a) Batteries as described in 40 CFR 273.2;
(b) Pesticides as described in § 273.3 of this chapter;
(c) Mercury-containing equipment as described in § 273.4 of this chapter;
(d) Lamps as described in § 273.5 of this chapter; and
(e) Aerosol cans as described in § 273.6 of this chapter.
[60 FR 25541, May 11, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 36487, July 6, 1999; 70 FR 45520, Aug. 5, 2005; 84 FR 67217, Dec. 9, 2019]

# Subpart B—Criteria for Identifying the Characteristics of Hazardous Waste and for Listing Hazardous Waste
§ 261.10
Criteria for identifying the characteristics of hazardous waste.
(a) The Administrator shall identify and define a characteristic of hazardous waste in subpart C only upon determining that:
(1) A solid waste that exhibits the characteristic may:
(i) Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
(ii) Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when it is improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed; and
(2) The characteristic can be:
(i) Measured by an available standardized test method which is reasonably within the capability of generators of solid waste or private sector laboratories that are available to serve generators of solid waste; or
(ii) Reasonably detected by generators of solid waste through their knowledge of their waste.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 261.11
Criteria for listing hazardous waste.
(a) The Administrator shall list a solid waste as a hazardous waste only upon determining that the solid waste meets one of the following criteria:
(1) It exhibits any of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in subpart C.
(2) It has been found to be fatal to humans in low doses or, in the absence
of data on human toxicity, it has been shown in studies to have an oral LD 50 toxicity (rat) of less than 50 milligrams per kilogram, an inhalation LC 50 toxicity (rat) of less than 2 milligrams per liter, or a dermal LD 50 toxicity (rabbit) of less than 200 milligrams per kilogram or is otherwise capable of causing or significantly contributing to an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness. (Waste listed in accordance with these criteria will be designated Acute Hazardous Waste.)
(3) It contains any of the toxic constituents listed in appendix VIII and, after considering the following factors, the Administrator concludes that the waste is capable of posing a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed:
(i) The nature of the toxicity presented by the constituent.
(ii) The concentration of the constituent in the waste.
(iii) The potential of the constituent or any toxic degradation product of the constituent to migrate from the waste into the environment under the types of improper management considered in paragraph (a)(3)(vii) of this section.
(iv) The persistence of the constituent or any toxic degradation product of the constituent.
(v) The potential for the constituent or any toxic degradation product of the constituent to degrade into non-harmful constituents and the rate of degradation.
(vi) The degree to which the constituent or any degradation product of the constituent bioaccumulates in ecosystems.
(vii) The plausible types of improper management to which the waste could be subjected.
(viii) The quantities of the waste generated at individual generation sites or on a regional or national basis.
(ix) The nature and severity of the human health and environmental damage that has occurred as a result of the improper management of wastes containing the constituent.
(x) Action taken by other governmental agencies or regulatory programs based on the health or environmental hazard posed by the waste or waste constituent.
(xi) Such other factors as may be appropriate.
Substances will be listed on appendix VIII only if they have been shown in scientific studies to have toxic, carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic effects on humans or other life forms.
(Wastes listed in accordance with these criteria will be designated Toxic wastes.)
(b) The Administrator may list classes or types of solid waste as hazardous waste if he has reason to believe that individual wastes, within the class or type of waste, typically or frequently are hazardous under the definition of hazardous waste found in section 1004(5) of the Act.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 18726, May 4, 1990; 57 FR 14, Jan. 2, 1992; 88 FR 54100, Aug. 9, 2023]

# Subpart C—Characteristics of Hazardous Waste
§ 261.20
General.
(a) A solid waste, as defined in § 261.2, which is not excluded from regulation as a hazardous waste under § 261.4(b), is a hazardous waste if it exhibits any of the characteristics identified in this subpart.
[
Comment:
§ 262.11 of this chapter sets forth the generator's responsibility to determine whether his waste exhibits one or more of the characteristics identified in this subpart]
(b) A hazardous waste which is identified by a characteristic in this subpart is assigned every EPA Hazardous Waste Number that is applicable as set forth in this subpart. This number must be used in complying with the notification requirements of section 3010 of the Act and all applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements under parts 262 through 265, 268, and 270 of this chapter.
(c) For purposes of this subpart, the Administrator will consider a sample obtained using any of the applicable sampling methods specified in appendix I to be a representative sample within the meaning of part 260 of this chapter.
[
Comment:
Since the appendix I sampling methods are not being formally adopted by the Administrator, a person who desires to
employ an alternative sampling method is not required to demonstrate the equivalency of his method under the procedures set forth in §§ 260.20 and 260.21.]
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986; 55 FR 22684, June 1, 1990; 56 FR 3876, Jan. 31, 1991]
§ 261.21
Characteristic of ignitability.
(a) A solid waste exhibits the characteristic of ignitability if a representative sample of the waste has any of the following properties:
(1) It is a liquid, other than a solution containing less than 24 percent alcohol by volume and at least 50 percent water by weight, that has a flash point less than 60 °C (140 °F), as determined by using one of the following ASTM standards: ASTM D93-79, D93-80, D3278-78, D8174-18, or D8175-18 as specified in SW-846 Test Methods 1010B or 1020C (all incorporated by reference, see § 260.11 of this subchapter).
(2) It is not a liquid and is capable, under standard temperature and pressure, of causing fire through friction, absorption of moisture or spontaneous chemical changes and, when ignited, burns so vigorously and persistently that it creates a hazard.
(3) It is an ignitable compressed gas.
(i) The term “compressed gas” shall designate any material or mixture having in the container an absolute pressure exceeding 40 p.s.i. at 70 °F or, regardless of the pressure at 70 °F, having an absolute pressure exceeding 104 p.s.i. at 130 °F; or any liquid flammable material having a vapor pressure exceeding 40 p.s.i. absolute at 100 °F as determined by ASTM Test D-323.
(ii) A compressed gas shall be characterized as ignitable if any one of the following occurs:
(A) Either a mixture of 13 percent or less (by volume) with air forms a flammable mixture or the flammable range with air is wider than 12 percent regardless of the lower limit. These limits shall be determined at atmospheric temperature and pressure. The method of sampling and test procedure shall be the ASTM E 681-85 (incorporated by reference, see § 260.11 of this subchapter), or other equivalent methods approved by the Associate Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation.
(B) It is determined to be flammable or extremely flammable using 49 CFR 173.115(l).
(4) It is an oxidizer. An oxidizer for the purpose of this subchapter is a substance such as a chlorate, permanganate, inorganic peroxide, or a nitrate, that yields oxygen readily to stimulate the combustion of organic matter.
(i) An organic compound containing the bivalent -O-O- structure and which may be considered a derivative of hydrogen peroxide where one or more of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by organic radicals must be classed as an organic peroxide unless:
(A) The material meets the definition of a Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 explosive, as defined in § 261.23(a)(8), in which case it must be classed as an explosive,
(B) The material is forbidden to be offered for transportation according to 49 CFR 172.101 and 49 CFR 173.21,
(C) It is determined that the predominant hazard of the material containing an organic peroxide is other than that of an organic peroxide, or
(D) According to data on file with the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration in the U.S. Department of Transportation, it has been determined that the material does not present a hazard in transportation.
(b) A solid waste that exhibits the characteristic of ignitability has the EPA Hazardous Waste Number of D001.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 35247, July 7, 1981; 55 FR 22684, June 1, 1990; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005; 71 FR 40259, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 40608, July 7, 2020]
§ 261.22
Characteristic of corrosivity.
(a) A solid waste exhibits the characteristic of corrosivity if a representative sample of the waste has either of the following properties:
(1) It is aqueous and has a pH less than or equal to 2 or greater than or equal to 12.5, as determined by a pH meter using Method 9040C in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter.
(2) It is a liquid and corrodes steel (SAE 1020) at a rate greater than 6.35
mm (0.250 inch) per year at a test temperature of 55 °C (130 °F) as determined by Method 1110A in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, and as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter.
(b) A solid waste that exhibits the characteristic of corrosivity has the EPA Hazardous Waste Number of D002.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 35247, July 7, 1981; 55 FR 22684, June 1, 1990; 58 FR 46049, Aug. 31, 1993; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005]
§ 261.23
Characteristic of reactivity.
(a) A solid waste exhibits the characteristic of reactivity if a representative sample of the waste has
any
of the following properties:
(1) It is normally unstable and readily undergoes violent change without detonating.
(2) It reacts violently with water.
(3) It forms potentially explosive mixtures with water.
(4) When mixed with water, it generates toxic gases, vapors or fumes in a quantity sufficient to present a danger to human health or the environment.
(5) It is a cyanide or sulfide bearing waste which, when exposed to pH conditions between 2 and 12.5, can generate toxic gases, vapors or fumes in a quantity sufficient to present a danger to human health or the environment.
(6) It is capable of detonation or explosive reaction if it is subjected to a strong initiating source or if heated under confinement.
(7) It is readily capable of detonation or explosive decomposition or reaction at standard temperature and pressure.
(8) It is a forbidden explosive as defined in 49 CFR 173.54, or is a Division 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3 explosive as defined in 49 CFR 173.50 and 173.53.
(b) A solid waste that exhibits the characteristic of reactivity has the EPA Hazardous Waste Number of D003.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 22684, June 1, 1990; 75 FR 13002, Mar. 18, 2010]
§ 261.24
Toxicity characteristic.
(a) A solid waste (except manufactured gas plant waste) exhibits the characteristic of toxicity if, using the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, test Method 1311 in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter, the extract from a representative sample of the waste contains any of the contaminants listed in table 1 at the concentration equal to or greater than the respective value given in that table. Where the waste contains less than 0.5 percent filterable solids, the waste itself, after filtering using the methodology outlined in Method 1311, is considered to be the extract for the purpose of this section.
(b) A solid waste that exhibits the characteristic of toxicity has the EPA Hazardous Waste Number specified in Table 1 which corresponds to the toxic contaminant causing it to be hazardous.
Table
1
—Maximum Concentration of Contaminants for the Toxicity Characteristic
EPA HW No.
1
Contaminant
CAS No.
2
Regulatory Level (mg/L)
D004
Arsenic
7440-38-2
5.0
D005
Barium
7440-39-3
100.0
D018
Benzene
71-43-2
0.5
D006
Cadmium
7440-43-9
1.0
D019
Carbon tetrachloride
56-23-5
0.5
D020
Chlordane
57-74-9
0.03
D021
Chlorobenzene
108-90-7
100.0
D022
Chloroform
67-66-3
6.0
D007
Chromium
7440-47-3
5.0
D023
o-Cresol
95-48-7
4
200.0
D024
m-Cresol
108-39-4
4
200.0
D025
p-Cresol
106-44-5
4
200.0
D026
Cresol
4
200.0
D016
2,4-D
94-75-7
10.0
D027
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
106-46-7
7.5
D028
1,2-Dichloroethane
107-06-2
0.5
D029
1,1-Dichloroethylene
75-35-4
0.7
D030
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
121-14-2
3
0.13
D012
Endrin
72-20-8
0.02
D031
Heptachlor (and its epoxide)
76-44-8
0.008
D032
Hexachlorobenzene
118-74-1
3
0.13
D033
Hexachlorobutadiene
87-68-3
0.5
D034
Hexachloroethane
67-72-1
3.0
D008
Lead
7439-92-1
5.0
D013
Lindane
58-89-9
0.4
D009
Mercury
7439-97-6
0.2
D014
Methoxychlor
72-43-5
10.0
D035
Methyl ethyl ketone
78-93-3
200.0
D036
Nitrobenzene
98-95-3
2.0
D037
Pentachlorophenol
87-86-5
100.0
D038
Pyridine
110-86-1
3
5.0
D010
Selenium
7782-49-2
1.0
D011
Silver
7440-22-4
5.0
D039
Tetrachloroethyl­ene
127-18-4
0.7
D015
Toxaphene
8001-35-2
0.5
D040
Trichloroethyl­ene
79-01-6
0.5
D041
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
95-95-4
400.0
D042
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
88-06-2
2.0
D017
2,4,5-TP (Silvex)
93-72-1
1.0
D043
Vinyl chloride
75-01-4
0.2
1
Hazardous waste number.
2
Chemical abstracts service number.
3
Quantitation limit is greater than the calculated regulatory level. The quantitation limit therefore becomes the regulatory level.
4
If o-, m-, and p-Cresol concentrations cannot be differentiated, the total cresol (D026) concentration is used. The regulatory level of total cresol is 200 mg/l.
[55 FR 11862, Mar. 29, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 22684, June 1, 1990; 55 FR 26987, June 29, 1990; 58 FR 46049, Aug. 31, 1993; 67 FR 11254, Mar. 13, 2002; 71 FR 40259, July 14, 2006]

# Subpart D—Lists of Hazardous Wastes
§ 261.30
General.
(a) A solid waste is a hazardous waste if it is listed in this subpart, unless it has been excluded from this list under §§ 260.20 and 260.22.
(b) The Administrator will indicate his basis for listing the classes or types of wastes listed in this subpart by employing one or more of the following Hazard Codes:
Ignitable Waste
(I)
Corrosive Waste
(C)
Reactive Waste
(R)
Toxicity Characteristic Waste
(E)
Acute Hazardous Waste
(H)
Toxic Waste
(T)
Appendix VII identifies the constituent which caused the Administrator to list the waste as a Toxicity Characteristic Waste (E) or Toxic Waste (T) in §§ 261.31 and 261.32.
(c) Each hazardous waste listed in this subpart is assigned an EPA Hazardous Waste Number which precedes the name of the waste. This number must be used in complying with the notification requirements of Section 3010 of the Act and certain recordkeeping and reporting requirements under parts 262 through 265, 267, 268, and 270 of this chapter.
(d) The following hazardous wastes listed in § 261.31 are subject to the generator category limits for acutely hazardous wastes established in table 1 of § 262.13 of this subchapter: EPA Hazardous Wastes Nos. F020, F021, F022, F023, F026 and F027.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 14294, Apr. 1, 1983; 50 FR 2000, Jan. 14, 1985; 51 FR 40636, Nov. 7, 1986; 55 FR 11863, Mar. 29, 1990; 75 FR 13002, Mar. 18, 2010; 88 FR 54100, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.31
Hazardous wastes from non-specific sources.
(a) The following solid wastes are listed hazardous wastes from non-specific sources unless they are excluded under §§ 260.20 and 260.22 and listed in appendix IX.
Industry and EPA hazardous waste No.
Hazardous waste
Hazard code
Generic:
F001
The following spent halogenated solvents used in degreasing: Tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene, methylene chloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride, and chlorinated fluorocarbons; all spent solvent mixtures/blends used in degreasing containing, before use, a total of ten percent or more (by volume) of one or more of the above halogenated solvents or those solvents listed in F002, F004, and F005; and still bottoms from the recovery of these spent solvents and spent solvent mixtures
(T)
F002
The following spent halogenated solvents: Tetrachloroethylene, methylene chloride, trichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, chlorobenzene, 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane, ortho-dichlorobenzene, trichlorofluoromethane, and 1,1,2-trichloroethane; all spent solvent mixtures/blends containing, before use, a total of ten percent or more (by volume) of one or more of the above halogenated solvents or those listed in F001, F004, or F005; and still bottoms from the recovery of these spent solvents and spent solvent mixtures
(T)
F003
The following spent non-halogenated solvents: Xylene, acetone, ethyl acetate, ethyl benzene, ethyl ether, methyl isobutyl ketone, n-butyl alcohol, cyclohexanone, and methanol; all spent solvent mixtures/blends containing, before use, only the above spent non-halogenated solvents; and all spent solvent mixtures/blends containing, before use, one or more of the above non-halogenated solvents, and, a total of ten percent or more (by volume) of one or more of those solvents listed in F001, F002, F004, and F005; and still bottoms from the recovery of these spent solvents and spent solvent mixtures
(I)*
F004
The following spent non-halogenated solvents: Cresols and cresylic acid, and nitrobenzene; all spent solvent mixtures/blends containing, before use, a total of ten percent or more (by volume) of one or more of the above non-halogenated solvents or those solvents listed in F001, F002, and F005; and still bottoms from the recovery of these spent solvents and spent solvent mixtures
(T)
F005
The following spent non-halogenated solvents: Toluene, methyl ethyl ketone, carbon disulfide, isobutanol, pyridine, benzene, 2-ethoxyethanol, and 2-nitropropane; all spent solvent mixtures/blends containing, before use, a total of ten percent or more (by volume) of one or more of the above non-halogenated solvents or those solvents listed in F001, F002, or F004; and still bottoms from the recovery of these spent solvents and spent solvent mixtures
(I,T)
F006
Wastewater treatment sludges from electroplating operations except from the following processes: (1) Sulfuric acid anodizing of aluminum; (2) tin plating on carbon steel; (3) zinc plating (segregated basis) on carbon steel; (4) aluminum or zinc-aluminum plating on carbon steel; (5) cleaning/stripping associated with tin, zinc and aluminum plating on carbon steel; and (6) chemical etching and milling of aluminum
(T)
F007
Spent cyanide plating bath solutions from electroplating operations
(R, T)
F008
Plating bath residues from the bottom of plating baths from electroplating operations where cyanides are used in the process
(R, T)
F009
Spent stripping and cleaning bath solutions from electroplating operations where cyanides are used in the process
(R, T)
F010
Quenching bath residues from oil baths from metal heat treating operations where cyanides are used in the process
(R, T)
F011
Spent cyanide solutions from salt bath pot cleaning from metal heat treating operations
(R, T)
F012
Quenching waste water treatment sludges from metal heat treating operations where cyanides are used in the process
(T)
F019
Wastewater treatment sludges from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum except from zirconium phosphating in aluminum can washing when such phosphating is an exclusive conversion coating process. Wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing of motor vehicles using a zinc phosphating process will not be subject to this listing at the point of generation if the wastes are not placed outside on the land prior to shipment to a landfill for disposal and are either: disposed in a Subtitle D municipal or industrial landfill unit that is equipped with a single clay liner and is permitted, licensed or otherwise authorized by the state; or disposed in a landfill unit subject to, or otherwise meeting, the landfill requirements in § 258.40, § 264.301 or § 265.301. For the purposes of this listing, motor vehicle manufacturing is defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section and (b)(4)(ii) of this section describes the recordkeeping requirements for motor vehicle manufacturing facilities
(T)
F020
Wastes (except wastewater and spent carbon from hydrogen chloride purification) from the production or manufacturing use (as a reactant, chemical intermediate, or component in a formulating process) of tri- or tetrachlorophenol, or of intermediates used to produce their pesticide derivatives. (This listing does not include wastes from the production of Hexachlorophene from highly purified 2,4,5-trichlorophenol.)
(H)
F021
Wastes (except wastewater and spent carbon from hydrogen chloride purification) from the production or manufacturing use (as a reactant, chemical intermediate, or component in a formulating process) of pentachlorophenol, or of intermediates used to produce its derivatives
(H)
F022
Wastes (except wastewater and spent carbon from hydrogen chloride purification) from the manufacturing use (as a reactant, chemical intermediate, or component in a formulating process) of tetra-, penta-, or hexachlorobenzenes under alkaline conditions
(H)
F023
Wastes (except wastewater and spent carbon from hydrogen chloride purification) from the production of materials on equipment previously used for the production or manufacturing use (as a reactant, chemical intermediate, or component in a formulating process) of tri- and tetrachlorophenols. (This listing does not include wastes from equipment used only for the production or use of Hexachlorophene from highly purified 2,4,5-trichlorophenol.)
(H)
F024
Process wastes, including but not limited to, distillation residues, heavy ends, tars, and reactor clean-out wastes, from the production of certain chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons by free radical catalyzed processes. These chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons are those having carbon chain lengths ranging from one to and including five, with varying amounts and positions of chlorine substitution. (This listing does not include wastewaters, wastewater treatment sludges, spent catalysts, and wastes listed in § 261.31 or § 261.32.)
(T)
F025
Condensed light ends, spent filters and filter aids, and spent desiccant wastes from the production of certain chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons, by free radical catalyzed processes. These chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons are those having carbon chain lengths ranging from one to and including five, with varying amounts and positions of chlorine substitution
(T)
F026
Wastes (except wastewater and spent carbon from hydrogen chloride purification) from the production of materials on equipment previously used for the manufacturing use (as a reactant, chemical intermediate, or component in a formulating process) of tetra-, penta-, or hexachlorobenzene under alkaline conditions
(H)
F027
Discarded unused formulations containing tri-, tetra-, or pentachlorophenol or discarded unused formulations containing compounds derived from these chlorophenols. (This listing does not include formulations containing Hexachlorophene sythesized from prepurified 2,4,5-trichlorophenol as the sole component.)
(H)
F028
Residues resulting from the incineration or thermal treatment of soil contaminated with EPA Hazardous Waste Nos. F020, F021, F022, F023, F026, and F027
(T)
F032
Wastewaters (except those that have not come into contact with process contaminants), process residuals, preservative drippage, and spent formulations from wood preserving processes generated at plants that currently use or have previously used chlorophenolic formulations (except potentially cross-contaminated wastes that have had the F032 waste code deleted in accordance with § 261.35 of this chapter or potentially cross-contaminated wastes that are otherwise currently regulated as hazardous wastes (i.e., F034 or F035), and where the generator does not resume or initiate use of chlorophenolic formulations). This listing does not include K001 bottom sediment sludge from the treatment of wastewater from wood preserving processes that use creosote and/or pentachlorophenol
(T)
F034
Wastewaters (except those that have not come into contact with process contaminants), process residuals, preservative drippage, and spent formulations from wood preserving processes generated at plants that use creosote formulations. This listing does not include K001 bottom sediment sludge from the treatment of wastewater from wood preserving processes that use creosote and/or pentachlorophenol
(T)
F035
Wastewaters (except those that have not come into contact with process contaminants), process residuals, preservative drippage, and spent formulations from wood preserving processes generated at plants that use inorganic preservatives containing arsenic or chromium. This listing does not include K001 bottom sediment sludge from the treatment of wastewater from wood preserving processes that use creosote and/or pentachlorophenol
(T)
F037
Petroleum refinery primary oil/water/solids separation sludge—Any sludge generated from the gravitational separation of oil/water/solids during the storage or treatment of process wastewaters and oily cooling wastewaters from petroleum refineries. Such sludges include, but are not limited to, those generated in oil/water/solids separators; tanks and impoundments; ditches and other conveyances; sumps; and stormwater units receiving dry weather flow. Sludge generated in stormwater units that do not receive dry weather flow, sludges generated from non-contact once-through cooling waters segregated for treatment from other process or oily cooling waters, sludges generated in aggressive biological treatment units as defined in § 261.31(b)(2) (including sludges generated in one or more additional units after wastewaters have been treated in aggressive biological treatment units) and K051 wastes are not included in this listing. This listing does include residuals generated from processing or recycling oil-bearing hazardous secondary materials excluded under § 261.4(a)(12)(i), if those residuals are to be disposed of
(T)
F038
Petroleum refinery secondary (emulsified) oil/water/solids separation sludge—Any sludge and/or float generated from the physical and/or chemical separation of oil/water/solids in process wastewaters and oily cooling wastewaters from petroleum refineries. Such wastes include, but are not limited to, all sludges and floats generated in: induced air flotation (IAF) units, tanks and impoundments, and all sludges generated in DAF units. Sludges generated in stormwater units that do not receive dry weather flow, sludges generated from non-contact once-through cooling waters segregated for treatment from other process or oily cooling waters, sludges and floats generated in aggressive biological treatment units as defined in § 261.31(b)(2) (including sludges and floats generated in one or more additional units after wastewaters have been treated in aggressive biological treatment units) and F037, K048, and K051 wastes are not included in this listing
(T)
F039
Leachate (liquids that have percolated through land disposed wastes) resulting from the disposal of more than one restricted waste classified as hazardous under subpart D of this part. (Leachate resulting from the disposal of one or more of the following EPA Hazardous Wastes and no other Hazardous Wastes retains its EPA Hazardous Waste Number(s): F020, F021, F022, F026, F027, and/or F028.)
(T)
*(I,T) should be used to specify mixtures that are ignitable and contain toxic constituents.
(b) Listing Specific Definitions:
(1) For the purposes of the F037 and F038 listings, oil/water/solids is defined as oil and/or water and/or solids.
(2)(i) For the purposes of the F037 and F038 listings, aggressive biological treatment units are defined as units which employ one of the following four treatment methods: activated sludge; trickling filter; rotating biological contactor for the continuous accelerated biological oxidation of wastewaters; or high-rate aeration. High-rate aeration is a system of surface impoundments or tanks, in which intense mechanical aeration is used to
completely mix the wastes, enhance biological activity, and (A) the units employ a minimum of 6 hp per million gallons of treatment volume; and either (B) the hydraulic retention time of the unit is no longer than 5 days; or (C) the hydraulic retention time is no longer than 30 days and the unit does not generate a sludge that is a hazardous waste by the Toxicity Characteristic.
(ii) Generators and treatment, storage and disposal facilities have the burden of proving that their sludges are exempt from listing as F037 and F038 wastes under this definition. Generators and treatment, storage and disposal facilities must maintain, in their operating or other onsite records, documents and data sufficient to prove that: (A) the unit is an aggressive biological treatment unit as defined in this subsection; and (B) the sludges sought to be exempted from the definitions of F037 and/or F038 were actually generated in the aggressive biological treatment unit.
(3) (i) For the purposes of the F037 listing, sludges are considered to be generated at the moment of deposition in the unit, where deposition is defined as at least a temporary cessation of lateral particle movement.
(ii) For the purposes of the F038 listing, (A) sludges are considered to be generated at the moment of deposition in the unit, where deposition is defined as at least a temporary cessation of lateral particle movement and (B) floats are considered to be generated at the moment they are formed in the top of the unit.
(4) For the purposes of the F019 listing, the following apply to wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing of motor vehicles using a zinc phosphating process.
(i) Motor vehicle manufacturing is defined to include the manufacture of automobiles and light trucks/utility vehicles (including light duty vans, pick-up trucks, minivans, and sport utility vehicles). Facilities must be engaged in manufacturing complete vehicles (body and chassis or unibody) or chassis only.
(ii) Generators must maintain in their on-site records documentation and information sufficient to prove that the wastewater treatment sludges to be exempted from the F019 listing meet the conditions of the listing. These records must include: the volume of waste generated and disposed of off site; documentation showing when the waste volumes were generated and sent off site; the name and address of the receiving facility; and documentation confirming receipt of the waste by the receiving facility. Generators must maintain these documents on site for no less than three years. The retention period for the documentation is automatically extended during the course of any enforcement action or as requested by the Regional Administrator or the state regulatory authority.
[46 FR 4617, Jan. 16, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 261.31, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 261.32
Hazardous wastes from specific sources.
(a)The following solid wastes are listed hazardous wastes from specific sources unless they are excluded under §§ 260.20 and 260.22 and listed in appendix IX.
Industry and EPA hazardous waste No.
Hazardous waste
Hazard code
Wood preservation: K001
Bottom sediment sludge from the treatment of wastewaters from wood preserving processes that use creosote and/or pentachlorophenol
(T)
Inorganic pigments:
K002
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chrome yellow and orange pigments
(T)
K003
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of molybdate orange pigments
(T)
K004
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of zinc yellow pigments
(T)
K005
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chrome green pigments
(T)
K006
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chrome oxide green pigments (anhydrous and hydrated)
(T)
K007
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of iron blue pigments
(T)
K008
Oven residue from the production of chrome oxide green pigments
(T)
Organic chemicals:
K009
Distillation bottoms from the production of acetaldehyde from ethylene
(T)
K010
Distillation side cuts from the production of acetaldehyde from ethylene
(T)
K011
Bottom stream from the wastewater stripper in the production of acrylonitrile
(R, T)
K013
Bottom stream from the acetonitrile column in the production of acrylonitrile
(R, T)
K014
Bottoms from the acetonitrile purification column in the production of acrylonitrile
(T)
K015
Still bottoms from the distillation of benzyl chloride
(T)
K016
Heavy ends or distillation residues from the production of carbon tetrachloride
(T)
K017
Heavy ends (still bottoms) from the purification column in the production of epichlorohydrin
(T)
K018
Heavy ends from the fractionation column in ethyl chloride production
(T)
K019
Heavy ends from the distillation of ethylene dichloride in ethylene dichloride production
(T)
K020
Heavy ends from the distillation of vinyl chloride in vinyl chloride monomer production
(T)
K021
Aqueous spent antimony catalyst waste from fluoromethanes production
(T)
K022
Distillation bottom tars from the production of phenol/acetone from cumene
(T)
K023
Distillation light ends from the production of phthalic anhydride from naphthalene
(T)
K024
Distillation bottoms from the production of phthalic anhydride from naphthalene
(T)
K025
Distillation bottoms from the production of nitrobenzene by the nitration of benzene
(T)
K026
Stripping still tails from the production of methy ethyl pyridines
(T)
K027
Centrifuge and distillation residues from toluene diisocyanate production
(R, T)
K028
Spent catalyst from the hydrochlorinator reactor in the production of 1,1,1-trichloroethane
(T)
K029
Waste from the product steam stripper in the production of 1,1,1-trichloroethane
(T)
K030
Column bottoms or heavy ends from the combined production of trichloroethylene and perchloroethylene
(T)
K083
Distillation bottoms from aniline production
(T)
K085
Distillation or fractionation column bottoms from the production of chlorobenzenes
(T)
K093
Distillation light ends from the production of phthalic anhydride from ortho-xylene
(T)
K094
Distillation bottoms from the production of phthalic anhydride from ortho-xylene
(T)
K095
Distillation bottoms from the production of 1,1,1-trichloroethane
(T)
K096
Heavy ends from the heavy ends column from the production of 1,1,1-trichloroethane
(T)
K103
Process residues from aniline extraction from the production of aniline
(T)
K104
Combined wastewater streams generated from nitrobenzene/aniline production
(T)
K105
Separated aqueous stream from the reactor product washing step in the production of chlorobenzenes
(T)
K107
Column bottoms from product separation from the production of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) from carboxylic acid hydrazides
(C,T)
K108
Condensed column overheads from product separation and condensed reactor vent gases from the production of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) from carboxylic acid hydrazides
(I,T)
K109
Spent filter cartridges from product purification from the production of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) from carboxylic acid hydrazides
(T)
K110
Condensed column overheads from intermediate separation from the production of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) from carboxylic acid hydrazides
(T)
K111
Product washwaters from the production of dinitrotoluene via nitration of toluene
(C,T)
K112
Reaction by-product water from the drying column in the production of toluenediamine via hydrogenation of dinitrotoluene
(T)
K113
Condensed liquid light ends from the purification of toluenediamine in the production of toluenediamine via hydrogenation of dinitrotoluene
(T)
K114
Vicinals from the purification of toluenediamine in the production of toluenediamine via hydrogenation of dinitrotoluene
(T)
K115
Heavy ends from the purification of toluenediamine in the production of toluenediamine via hydrogenation of dinitrotoluene
(T)
K116
Organic condensate from the solvent recovery column in the production of toluene diisocyanate via phosgenation of toluenediamine
(T)
K117
Wastewater from the reactor vent gas scrubber in the production of ethylene dibromide via bromination of ethene
(T)
K118
Spent adsorbent solids from purification of ethylene dibromide in the production of ethylene dibromide via bromination of ethene
(T)
K136
Still bottoms from the purification of ethylene dibromide in the production of ethylene dibromide via bromination of ethene
(T)
K149
Distillation bottoms from the production of alpha- (or methyl-) chlorinated toluenes, ring-chlorinated toluenes, benzoyl chlorides, and compounds with mixtures of these functional groups, (This waste does not include still bottoms from the distillation of benzyl chloride.)
(T)
K150
Organic residuals, excluding spent carbon adsorbent, from the spent chlorine gas and hydrochloric acid recovery processes associated with the production of alpha- (or methyl-) chlorinated toluenes, ring-chlorinated toluenes, benzoyl chlorides, and compounds with mixtures of these functional groups
(T)
K151
Wastewater treatment sludges, excluding neutralization and biological sludges, generated during the treatment of wastewaters from the production of alpha- (or methyl-) chlorinated toluenes, ring-chlorinated toluenes, benzoyl chlorides, and compounds with mixtures of these functional groups
(T)
K156
Organic waste (including heavy ends, still bottoms, light ends, spent solvents, filtrates, and decantates) from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes. (This listing does not apply to wastes generated from the manufacture of 3-iodo-2-propynyl n-butylcarbamate.)
(T)
K157
Wastewaters (including scrubber waters, condenser waters, washwaters, and separation waters) from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes. (This listing does not apply to wastes generated from the manufacture of 3-iodo-2-propynyl n-butylcarbamate.)
(T)
K158
Bag house dusts and filter/separation solids from the production of carbamates and carbamoyl oximes. (This listing does not apply to wastes generated from the manufacture of 3-iodo-2-propynyl n-butylcarbamate.)
(T)
K159
Organics from the treatment of thiocarbamate wastes
(T)
K161
Purification solids (including filtration, evaporation, and centrifugation solids), bag house dust and floor sweepings from the production of dithiocarbamate acids and their salts. (This listing does not include K125 or K126.)
(R,T)
K174
Wastewater treatment sludges from the production of ethylene dichloride or vinyl chloride monomer (including sludges that result from commingled ethylene dichloride or vinyl chloride monomer wastewater and other wastewater), unless the sludges meet the following conditions: (i) they are disposed of in a subtitle C or non-hazardous landfill licensed or permitted by the state or federal government; (ii) they are not otherwise placed on the land prior to final disposal; and (iii) the generator maintains documentation demonstrating that the waste was either disposed of in an on-site landfill or consigned to a transporter or disposal facility that provided a written commitment to dispose of the waste in an off-site landfill. Respondents in any action brought to enforce the requirements of subtitle C must, upon a showing by the government that the respondent managed wastewater treatment sludges from the production of vinyl chloride monomer or ethylene dichloride, demonstrate that they meet the terms of the exclusion set forth above. In doing so, they must provide appropriate documentation (e.g., contracts between the generator and the landfill owner/operator, invoices documenting delivery of waste to landfill, etc.) that the terms of the exclusion were met
(T)
K175
Wastewater treatment sludges from the production of vinyl chloride monomer using mercuric chloride catalyst in an acetylene-based process
(T)
K181
Nonwastewaters from the production of dyes and/or pigments (including nonwastewaters commingled at the point of generation with nonwastewaters from other processes) that, at the point of generation, contain mass loadings of any of the constituents identified in paragraph (c) of this section that are equal to or greater than the corresponding paragraph (c) levels, as determined on a calendar year basis. These wastes will not be hazardous if the nonwastewaters are: (i) disposed in a Subtitle D landfill unit subject to the design criteria in § 258.40, (ii) disposed in a Subtitle C landfill unit subject to either § 264.301 or § 265.301, (iii) disposed in other Subtitle D landfill units that meet the design criteria in § 258.40, § 264.301, or § 265.301, or (iv) treated in a combustion unit that is permitted under Subtitle C, or an onsite combustion unit that is permitted under the Clean Air Act. For the purposes of this listing, dyes and/or pigments production is defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section describes the process for demonstrating that a facility's nonwastewaters are not K181. This listing does not apply to wastes that are otherwise identified as hazardous under §§ 261.21-261.24 and 261.31-261.33 at the point of generation. Also, the listing does not apply to wastes generated before any annual mass loading limit is met
(T)
Inorganic chemicals:
K071
Brine purification muds from the mercury cell process in chlorine production, where separately prepurified brine is not used
(T)
K073
Chlorinated hydrocarbon waste from the purification step of the diaphragm cell process using graphite anodes in chlorine production
(T)
K106
Wastewater treatment sludge from the mercury cell process in chlorine production
(T)
K176
Baghouse filters from the production of antimony oxide, including filters from the production of intermediates (e.g., antimony metal or crude antimony oxide)
(E)
K177
Slag from the production of antimony oxide that is speculatively accumulated or disposed, including slag from the production of intermediates (e.g., antimony metal or crude antimony oxide)
(T)
K178
Residues from manufacturing and manufacturing-site storage of ferric chloride from acids formed during the production of titanium dioxide using the chloride-ilmenite process
(T)
Pesticides:
K031
By-product salts generated in the production of MSMA and cacodylic acid
(T)
K032
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of chlordane
(T)
K033
Wastewater and scrub water from the chlorination of cyclopentadiene in the production of chlordane
(T)
K034
Filter solids from the filtration of hexachlorocyclopentadiene in the production of chlordane
(T)
K035
Wastewater treatment sludges generated in the production of creosote
(T)
K036
Still bottoms from toluene reclamation distillation in the production of disulfoton
(T)
K037
Wastewater treatment sludges from the production of disulfoton
(T)
K038
Wastewater from the washing and stripping of phorate production
(T)
K039
Filter cake from the filtration of diethylphosphorodithioic acid in the production of phorate
(T)
K040
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of phorate
(T)
K041
Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of toxaphene
(T)
K042
Heavy ends or distillation residues from the distillation of tetrachlorobenzene in the production of 2,4,5-T
(T)
K043
2,6-Dichlorophenol waste from the production of 2,4-D
(T)
K097
Vacuum stripper discharge from the chlordane chlorinator in the production of chlordane
(T)
K098
Untreated process wastewater from the production of toxaphene
(T)
K099
Untreated wastewater from the production of 2,4-D
(T)
K123
Process wastewater (including supernates, filtrates, and washwaters) from the production of ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid and its salt
(T)
K124
Reactor vent scrubber water from the production of ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid and its salts
(C, T)
K125
Filtration, evaporation, and centrifugation solids from the production of ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid and its salts
(T)
K126
Baghouse dust and floor sweepings in milling and packaging operations from the production or formulation of ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid and its salts
(T)
K131
Wastewater from the reactor and spent sulfuric acid from the acid dryer from the production of methyl bromide
(C, T)
K132
Spent absorbent and wastewater separator solids from the production of methyl bromide
(T)
Explosives:
K044
Wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing and processing of explosives
(R)
K045
Spent carbon from the treatment of wastewater containing explosives
(R)
K046
Wastewater treatment sludges from the manufacturing, formulation and loading of lead-based initiating compounds
(T)
K047
Pink/red water from TNT operations
(R)
Petroleum refining:
K048
Dissolved air flotation (DAF) float from the petroleum refining industry
(T)
K049
Slop oil emulsion solids from the petroleum refining industry
(T)
K050
Heat exchanger bundle cleaning sludge from the petroleum refining industry
(T)
K051
API separator sludge from the petroleum refining industry
(T)
K052
Tank bottoms (leaded) from the petroleum refining industry
(T)
K169
Crude oil storage tank sediment from petroleum refining operations
(T)
K170
Clarified slurry oil tank sediment and/or in-line filter/separation solids from petroleum refining operations
(T)
K171
Spent Hydrotreating catalyst from petroleum refining operations, including guard beds used to desulfurize feeds to other catalytic reactors (this listing does not include inert support media)
(I,T)
K172
Spent Hydrorefining catalyst from petroleum refining operations, including guard beds used to desulfurize feeds to other catalytic reactors (this listing does not include inert support media)
(I,T)
Iron and steel:
K061
Emission control dust/sludge from the primary production of steel in electric furnaces
(T)
K062
Spent pickle liquor generated by steel finishing operations of facilities within the iron and steel industry (SIC Codes 331 and 332)
(C,T)
Primary aluminum:
K088
Spent potliners from primary aluminum reduction
(T)
Secondary lead:
K069
Emission control dust/sludge from secondary lead smelting. (
Note:
This listing is stayed administratively for sludge generated from secondary acid scrubber systems. The stay will remain in effect until further administrative action is taken. If EPA takes further action effecting this stay, EPA will publish a notice of the action in the
Federal Register
)
(T)
K100
Waste leaching solution from acid leaching of emission control dust/sludge from secondary lead smelting
(T)
Veterinary pharmaceuticals:
K084
Wastewater treatment sludges generated during the production of veterinary pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic compounds
(T)
K101
Distillation tar residues from the distillation of aniline-based compounds in the production of veterinary pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic compounds
(T)
K102
Residue from the use of activated carbon for decolorization in the production of veterinary pharmaceuticals from arsenic or organo-arsenic compounds
(T)
Ink formulation:
K086
Solvent washes and sludges, caustic washes and sludges, or water washes and sludges from cleaning tubs and equipment used in the formulation of ink from pigments, driers, soaps, and stabilizers containing chromium and lead
(T)
Coking:
K060
Ammonia still lime sludge from coking operations
(T)
K087
Decanter tank tar sludge from coking operations
(T)
K141
Process residues from the recovery of coal tar, including, but not limited to, collecting sump residues from the production of coke from coal or the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. This listing does not include K087 (decanter tank tar sludges from coking operations)
(T)
K142
Tar storage tank residues from the production of coke from coal or from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal
(T)
K143
Process residues from the recovery of light oil, including, but not limited to, those generated in stills, decanters, and wash oil recovery units from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal
(T)
K144
Wastewater sump residues from light oil refining, including, but not limited to, intercepting or contamination sump sludges from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal
(T)
K145
Residues from naphthalene collection and recovery operations from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal
(T)
K147
Tar storage tank residues from coal tar refining
(T)
K148
Residues from coal tar distillation, including but not limited to, still bottoms
(T)
(b)
Listing Specific Definitions:
(1) For the purposes of the K181 listing, dyes and/or pigments production is defined to include manufacture of the following product classes: dyes, pigments, or FDA certified colors that are classified as azo, triarylmethane, perylene or anthraquinone classes. Azo products include azo, monoazo, diazo, triazo, polyazo, azoic, benzidine, and pyrazolone products. Triarylmethane products include both triarylmethane and triphenylmethane products. Wastes that are not generated at a dyes and/or pigments manufacturing site, such as wastes from the offsite use, formulation, and packaging of dyes and/or pigments, are not included in the K181 listing.
(c)
K181 Listing Levels.
Nonwastewaters containing constituents in amounts equal to or exceeding the following levels during any calendar year are subject to the K181 listing, unless the conditions in the K181 listing are met.
Constituent
Chemical
abstracts No.
Mass levels
(kg/yr)
Aniline
62-53-3
9,300
o-Anisidine
90-04-0
110
4-Chloroaniline
106-47-8
4,800
p-Cresidine
120-71-8
660
2,4-Dimethylaniline
95-68-1
100
1,2-Phenylenediamine
95-54-5
710
1,3-Phenylenediamine
108-45-2
1,200
(d)
Procedures for demonstrating that dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters are not K181.
The procedures described in paragraphs (d)(1)-(d)(3) and (d)(5) of this section establish when nonwastewaters from the production of dyes/pigments would not be hazardous (these procedures apply to wastes that are not disposed in landfill units or treated in combustion units as specified in paragraph (a) of this section). If the nonwastewaters are disposed in landfill units or treated in combustion units as described in paragraph (a) of this section, then the nonwastewaters are not hazardous. In order to demonstrate that it is meeting the landfill disposal or combustion conditions contained in the K181 listing description, the generator must maintain documentation as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(1)
Determination based on no K181 constituents.
Generators that have knowledge (e.g., knowledge of constituents in wastes based on prior sampling and analysis data and/or information about raw materials used, production processes used, and reaction and degradation products formed) that their wastes contain none of the K181 constituents (
see
paragraph (c) of this section) can use their knowledge to determine that their waste is not K181. The generator must document the basis for all such determinations on an annual
basis and keep each annual documentation for three years.
(2)
Determination for generated quantities of 1,000 MT/yr or less for wastes that contain K181 constituents.
If the total annual quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated is 1,000 metric tons or less, the generator can use knowledge of the wastes (e.g., knowledge of constituents in wastes based on prior analytical data and/or information about raw materials used, production processes used, and reaction and degradation products formed) to conclude that annual mass loadings for the K181 constituents are below the listing levels of paragraph (c) of this section. To make this determination, the generator must:
(i) Each year document the basis for determining that the annual quantity of nonwastewaters expected to be generated will be less than 1,000 metric tons.
(ii) Track the actual quantity of nonwastewaters generated from January 1 through December 31 of each year. If, at any time within the year, the actual waste quantity exceeds 1,000 metric tons, the generator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the remainder of the year.
(iii) Keep a running total of the K181 constituent mass loadings over the course of the calendar year.
(iv) Keep the following records on site for the three most recent calendar years in which the hazardous waste determinations are made:
(A) The quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated.
(B) The relevant process information used.
(C) The calculations performed to determine annual total mass loadings for each K181 constituent in the nonwastewaters during the year.
(3)
Determination for generated quantities greater than 1,000 MT/yr for wastes that contain K181 constituents.
If the total annual quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated is greater than 1,000 metric tons, the generator must perform all of the steps described in paragraphs ((d)(3)(i)-(d)(3)(xi) of this section) in order to make a determination that its waste is not K181.
(i) Determine which K181 constituents (see paragraph (c) of this section) are reasonably expected to be present in the wastes based on knowledge of the wastes (e.g., based on prior sampling and analysis data and/or information about raw materials used, production processes used, and reaction and degradation products formed).
(ii) If 1,2-phenylenediamine is present in the wastes, the generator can use either knowledge or sampling and analysis procedures to determine the level of this constituent in the wastes. For determinations based on use of knowledge, the generator must comply with the procedures for using knowledge described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and keep the records described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section. For determinations based on sampling and analysis, the generator must comply with the sampling and analysis and recordkeeping requirements described below in this section.
(iii) Develop a waste sampling and analysis plan (or modify an existing plan) to collect and analyze representative waste samples for the K181 constituents reasonably expected to be present in the wastes. At a minimum, the plan must include:
(A) A discussion of the number of samples needed to characterize the wastes fully;
(B) The planned sample collection method to obtain representative waste samples;
(C) A discussion of how the sampling plan accounts for potential temporal and spatial variability of the wastes.
(D) A detailed description of the test methods to be used, including sample preparation, clean up (if necessary), and determinative methods.
(iv) Collect and analyze samples in accordance with the waste sampling and analysis plan.
(A) The sampling and analysis must be unbiased, precise, and representative of the wastes.
(B) The analytical measurements must be sufficiently sensitive, accurate and precise to support any claim that the constituent mass loadings are below the listing levels of paragraph (c) of this section.
(v) Record the analytical results.
(vi) Record the waste quantity represented by the sampling and analysis results.
(vii) Calculate constituent-specific mass loadings (product of concentrations and waste quantity).
(viii) Keep a running total of the K181 constituent mass loadings over the course of the calendar year.
(ix) Determine whether the mass of any of the K181 constituents listed in paragraph (c) of this section generated between January 1 and December 31 of any year is below the K181 listing levels.
(x) Keep the following records on site for the three most recent calendar years in which the hazardous waste determinations are made:
(A) The sampling and analysis plan.
(B) The sampling and analysis results (including QA/QC data)
(C) The quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated.
(D) The calculations performed to determine annual mass loadings.
(xi) Nonhazardous waste determinations must be conducted annually to verify that the wastes remain nonhazardous.
(A) The annual testing requirements are suspended after three consecutive successful annual demonstrations that the wastes are nonhazardous. The generator can then use knowledge of the wastes to support subsequent annual determinations.
(B) The annual testing requirements are reinstated if the manufacturing or waste treatment processes generating the wastes are significantly altered, resulting in an increase of the potential for the wastes to exceed the listing levels.
(C) If the annual testing requirements are suspended, the generator must keep records of the process knowledge information used to support a nonhazardous determination. If testing is reinstated, a description of the process change must be retained.
(4)
Recordkeeping for the landfill disposal and combustion exemptions.
For the purposes of meeting the landfill disposal and combustion condition set out in the K181 listing description, the generator must maintain on site for three years documentation demonstrating that each shipment of waste was received by a landfill unit that is subject to or meets the landfill design standards set out in the listing description, or was treated in combustion units as specified in the listing description.
(5)
Waste holding and handling.
During the interim period, from the point of generation to completion of the hazardous waste determination, the generator is responsible for storing the wastes appropriately. If the wastes are determined to be hazardous and the generator has not complied with the subtitle C requirements during the interim period, the generator could be subject to an enforcement action for improper management.
[46 FR 4618, Jan. 16, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 261.32, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 261.33
Discarded commercial chemical products, off-specification species, container residues, and spill residues thereof.
The following materials or items are hazardous wastes if and when they are discarded or intended to be discarded as described in § 261.2(a)(2)(i), when they are mixed with waste oil or used oil or other material and applied to the land for dust suppression or road treatment, when they are otherwise applied to the land in lieu of their original intended use or when they are contained in products that are applied to the land in lieu of their original intended use, or when, in lieu of their original intended use, they are produced for use as (or as a component of) a fuel, distributed for use as a fuel, or burned as a fuel.
(a) Any commercial chemical product, or manufacturing chemical intermediate having the generic name listed in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section.
(b) Any off-specification commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate which, if it met specifications, would have the generic name listed in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section.
(c) Any residue remaining in a container or in an inner liner removed from a container that has held any
commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate having the generic name listed in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, unless the container is empty as defined in § 261.7(b) or § 266.507 of this chapter.
[
Comment:
Unless the residue is being beneficially used or reused, or legitimately recycled or reclaimed; or being accumulated, stored, transported or treated prior to such use, re-use, recycling or reclamation, EPA considers the residue to be intended for discard, and thus, a hazardous waste. An example of a legitimate re-use of the residue would be where the residue remains in the container and the container is used to hold the same commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate it previously held. An example of the discard of the residue would be where the drum is sent to a drum reconditioner who reconditions the drum but discards the
residue.]
1
CAS Number given for parent compound only.
(d) Any residue or contaminated soil, water or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land or water of any commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate having the generic name listed in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or any residue or contaminated soil, water or other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill, into or on any land or water, of any off-specification chemical product and manufacturing chemical intermediate which, if it met specifications, would have the generic name listed in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section.
[
Comment:
The phrase “commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate having the generic name listed in . . .” refers to a chemical substance which is manufactured or formulated for commercial or manufacturing use which consists of the commercially pure grade of the chemical, any technical grades of the chemical that are produced or marketed, and all formulations in which the chemical is the sole active ingredient. It does not refer to a material, such as a manufacturing process waste, that contains any of the substances listed in paragraph (e) or (f). Where a manufacturing process waste is deemed to be a hazardous waste because it contains a substance listed in paragraph (e) or (f), such waste will be listed in either § 261.31 or § 261.32 or will be identified as a hazardous waste by the characteristics set forth in subpart C of this part.]
(e) The commercial chemical products, manufacturing chemical intermediates or off-specification commercial chemical products or manufacturing chemical intermediates referred to in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, are identified as acute hazardous wastes (H).
[
Comment:
For the convenience of the regulated community the primary hazardous properties of these materials have been indicated by the letters T (Toxicity), and R (Reactivity). Absence of a letter indicates that the compound only is listed for acute toxicity. Wastes are first listed in alphabetical order by substance and then listed again in numerical order by Hazardous Waste Number.]
These wastes and their corresponding EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers are:
Hazardous waste No.
Chemical abstracts No.
Substance
P023
107-20-0
Acetaldehyde, chloro-
P002
591-08-2
Acetamide, N-(aminothioxomethyl)-
P057
640-19-7
Acetamide, 2-fluoro-
P058
62-74-8
Acetic acid, fluoro-, sodium salt
P002
591-08-2
1-Acetyl-2-thiourea
P003
107-02-8
Acrolein
P070
116-06-3
Aldicarb
P203
1646-88-4
Aldicarb sulfone.
P004
309-00-2
Aldrin
P005
107-18-6
Allyl alcohol
P006
20859-73-8
Aluminum phosphide (R,T)
P007
2763-96-4
5-(Aminomethyl)-3-isoxazolol
P008
504-24-5
4-Aminopyridine
P009
131-74-8
Ammonium picrate (R)
P119
7803-55-6
Ammonium vanadate
P099
506-61-6
Argentate(1-), bis(cyano-C)-, potassium
P010
7778-39-4
Arsenic acid H
3
AsO
4
P012
1327-53-3
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
3
P011
1303-28-2
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
5
P011
1303-28-2
Arsenic pentoxide
P012
1327-53-3
Arsenic trioxide
P038
692-42-2
Arsine, diethyl-
P036
696-28-6
Arsonous dichloride, phenyl-
P054
151-56-4
Aziridine
P067
75-55-8
Aziridine, 2-methyl-
P013
542-62-1
Barium cyanide
P024
106-47-8
Benzenamine, 4-chloro-
P077
100-01-6
Benzenamine, 4-nitro-
P028
100-44-7
Benzene, (chloromethyl)-
P042
51-43-4
1,2-Benzenediol, 4-[1-hydroxy-2-(methylamino)ethyl]-, (R)-
P046
122-09-8
Benzeneethanamine, alpha,alpha-dimethyl-
P014
108-98-5
Benzenethiol
P127
1563-66-2
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate.
P188
57-64-7
Benzoic acid, 2-hydroxy-, compd. with (3aS-cis)-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethylpyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-yl methylcarbamate ester (1:1).
P001
1
81-81-2
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenylbutyl)-,
salts, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
P028
100-44-7
Benzyl chloride
P015
7440-41-7
Beryllium powder
P017
598-31-2
Bromoacetone
P018
357-57-3
Brucine
P045
39196-18-4
2-Butanone, 3,3-dimethyl-1-(methylthio)-,
O-[(methylamino)carbonyl] oxime
P021
592-01-8
Calcium cyanide
P021
592-01-8
Calcium cyanide Ca(CN)
2
P189
55285-14-8
Carbamic acid, [(dibutylamino)- thio]methyl-, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl- 7-benzofuranyl ester.
P191
644-64-4
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 1-[(dimethyl-amino)carbonyl]- 5-methyl-1H- pyrazol-3-yl ester.
P192
119-38-0
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 3-methyl-1- (1-methylethyl)-1H- pyrazol-5-yl ester.
P190
1129-41-5
Carbamic acid, methyl-, 3-methylphenyl ester.
P127
1563-66-2
Carbofuran.
P022
75-15-0
Carbon disulfide
P095
75-44-5
Carbonic dichloride
P189
55285-14-8
Carbosulfan.
P023
107-20-0
Chloroacetaldehyde
P024
106-47-8
p-Chloroaniline
P026
5344-82-1
1-(o-Chlorophenyl)thiourea
P027
542-76-7
3-Chloropropionitrile
P029
544-92-3
Copper cyanide
P029
544-92-3
Copper cyanide Cu(CN)
P202
64-00-6
m-Cumenyl methylcarbamate.
P030
Cyanides (soluble cyanide salts), not otherwise specified
P031
460-19-5
Cyanogen
P033
506-77-4
Cyanogen chloride
P033
506-77-4
Cyanogen chloride (CN)Cl
P034
131-89-5
2-Cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
P016
542-88-1
Dichloromethyl ether
P036
696-28-6
Dichlorophenylarsine
P037
60-57-1
Dieldrin
P038
692-42-2
Diethylarsine
P041
311-45-5
Diethyl-p-nitrophenyl phosphate
P040
297-97-2
O,O-Diethyl O-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate
P043
55-91-4
Diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP)
P004
309-00-2
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-hexa- chloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a,-hexahydro-, (1alpha,4alpha,4abeta,5alpha,8alpha,8abeta)-
P060
465-73-6
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-hexa- chloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, (1alpha,4alpha,4abeta,5beta,8beta,8abeta)-
P037
60-57-1
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2aalpha,3beta,6beta,6aalpha,7beta, 7aalpha)-
P051
1
72-20-8
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth [2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2abeta,3alpha,6alpha,6abeta,7beta, 7aalpha)-,
metabolites
P044
60-51-5
Dimethoate
P046
122-09-8
alpha,alpha-Dimethylphenethylamine
P191
644-64-4
Dimetilan.
P047
1
534-52-1
4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol,
salts
P048
51-28-5
2,4-Dinitrophenol
P020
88-85-7
Dinoseb
P085
152-16-9
Diphosphoramide, octamethyl-
P111
107-49-3
Diphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
P039
298-04-4
Disulfoton
P049
541-53-7
Dithiobiuret
P185
26419-73-8
1,3-Dithiolane-2-carboxaldehyde, 2,4-dimethyl-, O- [(methylamino)- carbonyl]oxime.
P050
115-29-7
Endosulfan
P088
145-73-3
Endothall
P051
72-20-8
Endrin
P051
72-20-8
Endrin,
metabolites
P042
51-43-4
Epinephrine
P031
460-19-5
Ethanedinitrile
P194
23135-22-0
Ethanimidothioic acid, 2-(dimethylamino)-N-[[(methylamino) carbonyl]oxy]-2-oxo-, methyl ester.
P066
16752-77-5
Ethanimidothioic acid,
N-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]-, methyl ester
P101
107-12-0
Ethyl cyanide
P054
151-56-4
Ethyleneimine
P097
52-85-7
Famphur
P056
7782-41-4
Fluorine
P057
640-19-7
Fluoroacetamide
P058
62-74-8
Fluoroacetic acid, sodium salt
P198
23422-53-9
Formetanate hydrochloride.
P197
17702-57-7
Formparanate.
P065
628-86-4
Fulminic acid, mercury(2 + ) salt (R,T)
P059
76-44-8
Heptachlor
P062
757-58-4
Hexaethyl tetraphosphate
P116
79-19-6
Hydrazinecarbothioamide
P068
60-34-4
Hydrazine, methyl-
P063
74-90-8
Hydrocyanic acid
P063
74-90-8
Hydrogen cyanide
P096
7803-51-2
Hydrogen phosphide
P060
465-73-6
Isodrin
P192
119-38-0
Isolan.
P202
64-00-6
3-Isopropylphenyl N-methylcarbamate.
P007
2763-96-4
3(2H)-Isoxazolone, 5-(aminomethyl)-
P196
15339-36-3
Manganese, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
P196
15339-36-3
Manganese dimethyldithiocarbamate.
P092
62-38-4
Mercury, (acetato-O)phenyl-
P065
628-86-4
Mercury fulminate (R,T)
P082
62-75-9
Methanamine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
P064
624-83-9
Methane, isocyanato-
P016
542-88-1
Methane, oxybis[chloro-
P112
509-14-8
Methane, tetranitro- (R)
P118
75-70-7
Methanethiol, trichloro-
P198
23422-53-9
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[3-[[(methylamino)-carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-, monohydrochloride.
P197
17702-57-7
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[2-methyl-4-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-
P050
115-29-7
6,9-Methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin, 6,7,8,9,10,10-
hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-, 3-oxide
P059
76-44-8
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachloro-
3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-
P199
2032-65-7
Methiocarb.
P066
16752-77-5
Methomyl
P068
60-34-4
Methyl hydrazine
P064
624-83-9
Methyl isocyanate
P069
75-86-5
2-Methyllactonitrile
P071
298-00-0
Methyl parathion
P190
1129-41-5
Metolcarb.
P128
315-8-4
Mexacarbate.
P072
86-88-4
alpha-Naphthylthiourea
P073
13463-39-3
Nickel carbonyl
P073
13463-39-3
Nickel carbonyl Ni(CO)
4
, (T-4)-
P074
557-19-7
Nickel cyanide
P074
557-19-7
Nickel cyanide Ni(CN)
2
P075
1
54-11-5
Nicotine,
salts (this listing does not include patches, gums and lozenges that are FDA-approved over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies).
P076
10102-43-9
Nitric oxide
P077
100-01-6
p-Nitroaniline
P078
10102-44-0
Nitrogen dioxide
P076
10102-43-9
Nitrogen oxide NO
P078
10102-44-0
Nitrogen oxide NO
2
P081
55-63-0
Nitroglycerine (R)
P082
62-75-9
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
P084
4549-40-0
N-Nitrosomethylvinylamine
P085
152-16-9
Octamethylpyrophosphoramide
P087
20816-12-0
Osmium oxide OsO
4
, (T-4)-
P087
20816-12-0
Osmium tetroxide
P088
145-73-3
7-Oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid
P194
23135-22-0
Oxamyl.
P089
56-38-2
Parathion
P034
131-89-5
Phenol, 2-cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitro-
P048
51-28-5
Phenol, 2,4-dinitro-
P047
1
534-52-1
Phenol, 2-methyl-4,6-dinitro-,
salts
P020
88-85-7
Phenol, 2-(1-methylpropyl)-4,6-dinitro-
P009
131-74-8
Phenol, 2,4,6-trinitro-, ammonium salt (R)
P128
315-18-4
Phenol, 4-(dimethylamino)-3,5-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate (ester).
P199
2032-65-7
Phenol, (3,5-dimethyl-4-(methylthio)-, methylcarbamate
P202
64-00-6
Phenol, 3-(1-methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate.
P201
2631-37-0
Phenol, 3-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate.
P092
62-38-4
Phenylmercury acetate
P093
103-85-5
Phenylthiourea
P094
298-02-2
Phorate
P095
75-44-5
Phosgene
P096
7803-51-2
Phosphine
P041
311-45-5
Phosphoric acid, diethyl 4-nitrophenyl ester
P039
298-04-4
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl
S-[2-(ethylthio)ethyl] ester
P094
298-02-2
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl
S-[(ethylthio)methyl] ester
P044
60-51-5
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-dimethyl S-[2-(methyl­amino)-2-oxoethyl] ester
P043
55-91-4
Phosphorofluoridic acid, bis(1-methylethyl) ester
P089
56-38-2
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
P040
297-97-2
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-pyrazinyl ester
P097
52-85-7
Phosphorothioic acid,
O-[4-[(dimethylamino)sulfonyl]phenyl] O,O-dimethyl ester
P071
298-00-0
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O,-dimethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
P204
57-47-6
Physostigmine.
P188
57-64-7
Physostigmine salicylate.
P110
78-00-2
Plumbane, tetraethyl-
P098
151-50-8
Potassium cyanide
P098
151-50-8
Potassium cyanide K(CN)
P099
506-61-6
Potassium silver cyanide
P201
2631-37-0
Promecarb
P070
116-06-3
Propanal, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-,
O-[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxime
P203
1646-88-4
Propanal, 2-methyl-2-(methyl-sulfonyl)-, O-[(methylamino)carbonyl] oxime.
P101
107-12-0
Propanenitrile
P027
542-76-7
Propanenitrile, 3-chloro-
P069
75-86-5
Propanenitrile, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-
P081
55-63-0
1,2,3-Propanetriol, trinitrate (R)
P017
598-31-2
2-Propanone, 1-bromo-
P102
107-19-7
Propargyl alcohol
P003
107-02-8
2-Propenal
P005
107-18-6
2-Propen-1-ol
P067
75-55-8
1,2-Propylenimine
P102
107-19-7
2-Propyn-1-ol
P008
504-24-5
4-Pyridinamine
P075
1
54-11-5
Pyridine, 3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)-, (S)-,
salts (this listing does not include patches, gums and lozenges that are FDA-approved over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies).
P204
57-47-6
Pyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-ol, 1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethyl-,
methylcarbamate (ester), (3aS-cis)-.
P114
12039-52-0
Selenious acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
P103
630-10-4
Selenourea
P104
506-64-9
Silver cyanide
P104
506-64-9
Silver cyanide Ag(CN)
P105
26628-22-8
Sodium azide
P106
143-33-9
Sodium cyanide
P106
143-33-9
Sodium cyanide Na(CN)
P108
1
57-24-9
Strychnidin-10-one,
salts
P018
357-57-3
Strychnidin-10-one, 2,3-dimethoxy-
P108
1
57-24-9
Strychnine,
salts
P115
7446-18-6
Sulfuric acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
P109
3689-24-5
Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate
P110
78-00-2
Tetraethyl lead
P111
107-49-3
Tetraethyl pyrophosphate
P112
509-14-8
Tetranitromethane (R)
P062
757-58-4
Tetraphosphoric acid, hexaethyl ester
P113
1314-32-5
Thallic oxide
P113
1314-32-5
Thallium oxide Tl
2
O
3
P114
12039-52-0
Thallium(I) selenite
P115
7446-18-6
Thallium(I) sulfate
P109
3689-24-5
Thiodiphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
P045
39196-18-4
Thiofanox
P049
541-53-7
Thioimidodicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
NH
P014
108-98-5
Thiophenol
P116
79-19-6
Thiosemicarbazide
P026
5344-82-1
Thiourea, (2-chlorophenyl)-
P072
86-88-4
Thiourea, 1-naphthalenyl-
P093
103-85-5
Thiourea, phenyl-
P185
26419-73-8
Tirpate.
P123
8001-35-2
Toxaphene
P118
75-70-7
Trichloromethanethiol
P119
7803-55-6
Vanadic acid, ammonium salt
P120
1314-62-1
Vanadium oxide V
2
O
5
P120
1314-62-1
Vanadium pentoxide
P084
4549-40-0
Vinylamine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
P001
1
81-81-2
Warfarin,
salts, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
P205
137-30-4
Zinc, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
P121
557-21-1
Zinc cyanide
P121
557-21-1
Zinc cyanide Zn(CN)
2
P122
1314-84-7
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations greater than 10% (R,T)
P205
137-30-4
Ziram.
P001
1
81-81-2
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenylbutyl)-,
salts, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
P001
1
81-81-2
Warfarin,
salts, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
P002
591-08-2
Acetamide, -(aminothioxomethyl)-
P002
591-08-2
1-Acetyl-2-thiourea
P003
107-02-8
Acrolein
P003
107-02-8
2-Propenal
P004
309-00-2
Aldrin
P004
309-00-2
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-hexa-chloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a,-hexahydro-, (1alpha,4alpha,4abeta,5alpha,8alpha,8abeta)-
P005
107-18-6
Allyl alcohol
P005
107-18-6
2-Propen-1-ol
P006
20859-73-8
Aluminum phosphide (R,T)
P007
2763-96-4
5-(Aminomethyl)-3-isoxazolol
P007
2763-96-4
3(2H)-Isoxazolone, 5-(aminomethyl)-
P008
504-24-5
4-Aminopyridine
P008
504-24-5
4-Pyridinamine
P009
131-74-8
Ammonium picrate (R)
P009
131-74-8
Phenol, 2,4,6-trinitro-, ammonium salt (R)
P010
7778-39-4
Arsenic acid H
3
AsO
4
P011
1303-28-2
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
5
P011
1303-28-2
Arsenic pentoxide
P012
1327-53-3
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
3
P012
1327-53-3
Arsenic trioxide
P013
542-62-1
Barium cyanide
P014
108-98-5
Benzenethiol
P014
108-98-5
Thiophenol
P015
7440-41-7
Beryllium powder
P016
542-88-1
Dichloromethyl ether
P016
542-88-1
Methane, oxybis[chloro-
P017
598-31-2
Bromoacetone
P017
598-31-2
2-Propanone, 1-bromo-
P018
357-57-3
Brucine
P018
357-57-3
Strychnidin-10-one, 2,3-dimethoxy-
P020
88-85-7
Dinoseb
P020
88-85-7
Phenol, 2-(1-methylpropyl)-4,6-dinitro-
P021
592-01-8
Calcium cyanide
P021
592-01-8
Calcium cyanide Ca(CN)
2
P022
75-15-0
Carbon disulfide
P023
107-20-0
Acetaldehyde, chloro-
P023
107-20-0
Chloroacetaldehyde
P024
106-47-8
Benzenamine, 4-chloro-
P024
106-47-8
p-Chloroaniline
P026
5344-82-1
1-(o-Chlorophenyl)thiourea
P026
5344-82-1
Thiourea, (2-chlorophenyl)-
P027
542-76-7
3-Chloropropionitrile
P027
542-76-7
Propanenitrile, 3-chloro-
P028
100-44-7
Benzene, (chloromethyl)-
P028
100-44-7
Benzyl chloride
P029
544-92-3
Copper cyanide
P029
544-92-3
Copper cyanide Cu(CN)
P030
Cyanides (soluble cyanide salts), not otherwise specified
P031
460-19-5
Cyanogen
P031
460-19-5
Ethanedinitrile
P033
506-77-4
Cyanogen chloride
P033
506-77-4
Cyanogen chloride (CN)Cl
P034
131-89-5
2-Cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
P034
131-89-5
Phenol, 2-cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitro-
P036
696-28-6
Arsonous dichloride, phenyl-
P036
696-28-6
Dichlorophenylarsine
P037
60-57-1
Dieldrin
P037
60-57-1
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2aalpha,3beta,6beta,6aalpha,7beta, 7aalpha)-
P038
692-42-2
Arsine, diethyl-
P038
692-42-2
Diethylarsine
P039
298-04-4
Disulfoton
P039
298-04-4
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-[2-(ethylthio)ethyl] ester
P040
297-97-2
O,O-Diethyl O-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate
P040
297-97-2
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-pyrazinyl ester
P041
311-45-5
Diethyl-p-nitrophenyl phosphate
P041
311-45-5
Phosphoric acid, diethyl 4-nitrophenyl ester
P042
51-43-4
1,2-Benzenediol, 4-[1-hydroxy-2-(methylamino)ethyl]-, (R)-
P042
51-43-4
Epinephrine
P043
55-91-4
Diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP)
P043
55-91-4
Phosphorofluoridic acid, bis(1-methylethyl) ester
P044
60-51-5
Dimethoate
P044
60-51-5
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-dimethyl S-[2-(methyl amino)-2-oxoethyl] ester
P045
39196-18-4
2-Butanone, 3,3-dimethyl-1-(methylthio)-, O-[(methylamino)carbonyl] oxime
P045
39196-18-4
Thiofanox
P046
122-09-8
Benzeneethanamine, alpha,alpha-dimethyl-
P046
122-09-8
alpha,alpha-Dimethylphenethylamine
P047
1
534-52-1
4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol,
salts
P047
1
534-52-1
Phenol, 2-methyl-4,6-dinitro-,
salts
P048
51-28-5
2,4-Dinitrophenol
P048
51-28-5
Phenol, 2,4-dinitro-
P049
541-53-7
Dithiobiuret
P049
541-53-7
Thioimidodicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
NH
P050
115-29-7
Endosulfan
P050
115-29-7
6,9-Methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-, 3-oxide
P051
1
72-20-8
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth [2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2abeta,3alpha,6alpha,6abeta,7beta, 7aalpha)-,
metabolites
P051
72-20-8
Endrin
P051
72-20-8
Endrin,
metabolites
P054
151-56-4
Aziridine
P054
151-56-4
Ethyleneimine
P056
7782-41-4
Fluorine
P057
640-19-7
Acetamide, 2-fluoro-
P057
640-19-7
Fluoroacetamide
P058
62-74-8
Acetic acid, fluoro-, sodium salt
P058
62-74-8
Fluoroacetic acid, sodium salt
P059
76-44-8
Heptachlor
P059
76-44-8
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachloro-3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-
P060
465-73-6
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-hexa-chloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, (1alpha,4alpha,4abeta,5beta,8beta,8abeta)-
P060
465-73-6
Isodrin
P062
757-58-4
Hexaethyl tetraphosphate
P062
757-58-4
Tetraphosphoric acid, hexaethyl ester
P063
74-90-8
Hydrocyanic acid
P063
74-90-8
Hydrogen cyanide
P064
624-83-9
Methane, isocyanato-
P064
624-83-9
Methyl isocyanate
P065
628-86-4
Fulminic acid, mercury(2 + ) salt (R,T)
P065
628-86-4
Mercury fulminate (R,T)
P066
16752-77-5
Ethanimidothioic acid, N-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]-, methyl ester
P066
16752-77-5
Methomyl
P067
75-55-8
Aziridine, 2-methyl-
P067
75-55-8
1,2-Propylenimine
P068
60-34-4
Hydrazine, methyl-
P068
60-34-4
Methyl hydrazine
P069
75-86-5
2-Methyllactonitrile
P069
75-86-5
Propanenitrile, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-
P070
116-06-3
Aldicarb
P070
116-06-3
Propanal, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-, O-[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxime
P071
298-00-0
Methyl parathion
P071
298-00-0
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O,-dimethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
P072
86-88-4
alpha-Naphthylthiourea
P072
86-88-4
Thiourea, 1-naphthalenyl-
P073
13463-39-3
Nickel carbonyl
P073
13463-39-3
Nickel carbonyl Ni(CO)
4
, (T-4)-
P074
557-19-7
Nickel cyanide
P074
557-19-7
Nickel cyanide Ni(CN)
2
P075
1
54-11-5
Nicotine,
salts (this listing does not include patches, gums and lozenges that are FDA-approved over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies).
P075
1
54-11-5
Pyridine, 3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)-, (S)-,
salts (this listing does not include patches, gums and lozenges that are FDA-approved over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies).
P076
10102-43-9
Nitric oxide
P076
10102-43-9
Nitrogen oxide NO
P077
100-01-6
Benzenamine, 4-nitro-
P077
100-01-6
p-Nitroaniline
P078
10102-44-0
Nitrogen dioxide
P078
10102-44-0
Nitrogen oxide NO
2
P081
55-63-0
Nitroglycerine (R)
P081
55-63-0
1,2,3-Propanetriol, trinitrate (R)
P082
62-75-9
Methanamine, -methyl-N-nitroso-
P082
62-75-9
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
P084
4549-40-0
N-Nitrosomethylvinylamine
P084
4549-40-0
Vinylamine, -methyl-N-nitroso-
P085
152-16-9
Diphosphoramide, octamethyl-
P085
152-16-9
Octamethylpyrophosphoramide
P087
20816-12-0
Osmium oxide OsO
4
, (T-4)-
P087
20816-12-0
Osmium tetroxide
P088
145-73-3
Endothall
P088
145-73-3
7-Oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid
P089
56-38-2
Parathion
P089
56-38-2
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
P092
62-38-4
Mercury, (acetato-O)phenyl-
P092
62-38-4
Phenylmercury acetate
P093
103-85-5
Phenylthiourea
P093
103-85-5
Thiourea, phenyl-
P094
298-02-2
Phorate
P094
298-02-2
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-[(ethylthio)methyl] ester
P095
75-44-5
Carbonic dichloride
P095
75-44-5
Phosgene
P096
7803-51-2
Hydrogen phosphide
P096
7803-51-2
Phosphine
P097
52-85-7
Famphur
P097
52-85-7
Phosphorothioic acid, O-[4-[(dimethylamino)sulfonyl]phenyl] O,O-dimethyl ester
P098
151-50-8
Potassium cyanide
P098
151-50-8
Potassium cyanide K(CN)
P099
506-61-6
Argentate(1-), bis(cyano-C)-, potassium
P099
506-61-6
Potassium silver cyanide
P101
107-12-0
Ethyl cyanide
P101
107-12-0
Propanenitrile
P102
107-19-7
Propargyl alcohol
P102
107-19-7
2-Propyn-1-ol
P103
630-10-4
Selenourea
P104
506-64-9
Silver cyanide
P104
506-64-9
Silver cyanide Ag(CN)
P105
26628-22-8
Sodium azide
P106
143-33-9
Sodium cyanide
P106
143-33-9
Sodium cyanide Na(CN)
P108
1
157-24-9
Strychnidin-10-one,
salts
P108
1
157-24-9
Strychnine,
salts
P109
3689-24-5
Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate
P109
3689-24-5
Thiodiphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
P110
78-00-2
Plumbane, tetraethyl-
P110
78-00-2
Tetraethyl lead
P111
107-49-3
Diphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
P111
107-49-3
Tetraethyl pyrophosphate
P112
509-14-8
Methane, tetranitro-(R)
P112
509-14-8
Tetranitromethane (R)
P113
1314-32-5
Thallic oxide
P113
1314-32-5
Thallium oxide Tl
2
O
3
P114
12039-52-0
Selenious acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
P114
12039-52-0
Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate
P115
7446-18-6
Thiodiphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
P115
7446-18-6
Plumbane, tetraethyl-
P116
79-19-6
Tetraethyl lead
P116
79-19-6
Thiosemicarbazide
P118
75-70-7
Methanethiol, trichloro-
P118
75-70-7
Trichloromethanethiol
P119
7803-55-6
Ammonium vanadate
P119
7803-55-6
Vanadic acid, ammonium salt
P120
1314-62-1
Vanadium oxide V
2
O
5
P120
1314-62-1
Vanadium pentoxide
P121
557-21-1
Zinc cyanide
P121
557-21-1
Zinc cyanide Zn(CN)
2
P122
1314-84-7
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations greater than 10% (R,T)
P123
8001-35-2
Toxaphene
P127
1563-66-2
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate.
P127
1563-66-2
Carbofuran
P128
315-8-4
Mexacarbate
P128
315-18-4
Phenol, 4-(dimethylamino)-3,5-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate (ester)
P185
26419-73-8
1,3-Dithiolane-2-carboxaldehyde, 2,4-dimethyl-, O-[(methylamino)-carbonyl]oxime.
P185
26419-73-8
Tirpate
P188
57-64-7
Benzoic acid, 2-hydroxy-, compd. with (3aS-cis)-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethylpyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-yl methylcarbamate ester (1:1)
P188
57-64-7
Physostigmine salicylate
P189
55285-14-8
Carbamic acid, [(dibutylamino)-thio]methyl-, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl ester
P189
55285-14-8
Carbosulfan
P190
1129-41-5
Carbamic acid, methyl-, 3-methylphenyl ester
P190
1129-41-5
Metolcarb
P191
644-64-4
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 1-[(dimethyl-amino)carbonyl]-5-methyl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl ester
P191
644-64-4
Dimetilan
P192
119-38-0
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 3-methyl-1-(1-methylethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-yl ester
P192
119-38-0
Isolan
P194
23135-22-0
Ethanimidthioic acid, 2-(dimethylamino)-N-[[(methylamino) carbonyl]oxy]-2-oxo-, methyl ester
P194
23135-22-0
Oxamyl
P196
15339-36-3
Manganese, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
P196
15339-36-3
Manganese dimethyldithiocarbamate
P197
17702-57-7
Formparanate
P197
17702-57-7
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[2-methyl-4-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-
P198
23422-53-9
Formetanate hydrochloride
P198
23422-53-9
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[3-[[(methylamino)-carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-monohydrochloride
P199
2032-65-7
Methiocarb
P199
2032-65-7
Phenol, (3,5-dimethyl-4-(methylthio)-, methylcarbamate
P201
2631-37-0
Phenol, 3-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate
P201
2631-37-0
Promecarb
P202
64-00-6
m-Cumenyl methylcarbamate
P202
64-00-6
3-Isopropylphenyl N-methylcarbamate
P202
64-00-6
Phenol, 3-(1-methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate
P203
1646-88-4
Aldicarb sulfone
P203
1646-88-4
Propanal, 2-methyl-2-(methyl-sulfonyl)-, O-[(methylamino)carbonyl] oxime
P204
57-47-6
Physostigmine
P204
57-47-6
Pyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-ol, 1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethyl-, methylcarbamate (ester), (3aS-cis)-
P205
137-30-4
Zinc, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
P205
137-30-4
Ziram
1
CAS Number given for parent compound only.
(f) The commercial chemical products, manufacturing chemical intermediates, or off-specification commercial chemical products referred to in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, are identified as toxic wastes (T) unless otherwise designated.
[
Comment:
For the convenience of the regulated community, the primary hazardous properties of these materials have been indicated by the letters T (Toxicity), R (Reactivity), I (Ignitability) and C (Corrosivity). Absence of a letter indicates that the compound is only listed for toxicity. Wastes are
first listed in alphabetical order by substance and then listed again in numerical order by Hazardous Waste Number.]
These wastes and their corresponding EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers are:
Hazardous waste No.
Chemical abstracts No.
Substance
U394
30558-43-1
A2213.
U001
75-07-0
Acetaldehyde (I)
U034
75-87-6
Acetaldehyde, trichloro-
U187
62-44-2
Acetamide, N-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-
U005
53-96-3
Acetamide, N-9H-fluoren-2-yl-
U240
1
94-75-7
Acetic acid, (2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-, salts
esters
U112
141-78-6
Acetic acid ethyl ester (I)
U144
301-04-2
Acetic acid, lead(2 + ) salt
U214
563-68-8
Acetic acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
see F027
93-76-5
Acetic acid, (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
U002
67-64-1
Acetone (I)
U003
75-05-8
Acetonitrile (I,T)
U004
98-86-2
Acetophenone
U005
53-96-3
2-Acetylaminofluorene
U006
75-36-5
Acetyl chloride (C,R,T)
U007
79-06-1
Acrylamide
U008
79-10-7
Acrylic acid (I)
U009
107-13-1
Acrylonitrile
U011
61-82-5
Amitrole
U012
62-53-3
Aniline (I,T)
U136
75-60-5
Arsinic acid, dimethyl-
U014
492-80-8
Auramine
U015
115-02-6
Azaserine
U010
50-07-7
Azirino[2′,3′:3,4]pyrrolo[1,2-a]indole-4,7-dione, 6-amino-8-[[(aminocarbonyl)oxy]methyl]-1,1a,2,8,8a,8b-hexahydro-8a-methoxy-5-methyl-, [1aS-(1aalpha, 8beta,8aalpha,8balpha)]-
U280
101-27-9
Barban.
U278
22781-23-3
Bendiocarb.
U364
22961-82-6
Bendiocarb phenol.
U271
17804-35-2
Benomyl.
U157
56-49-5
Benz[j]aceanthrylene, 1,2-dihydro-3-methyl-
U016
225-51-4
Benz[c]acridine
U017
98-87-3
Benzal chloride
U192
23950-58-5
Benzamide, 3,5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethyl-2-propynyl)-
U018
56-55-3
Benz[a]anthracene
U094
57-97-6
Benz[a]anthracene, 7,12-dimethyl-
U012
62-53-3
Benzenamine (I,T)
U014
492-80-8
Benzenamine, 4,4′-carbonimidoylbis[N,N-dimethyl-
U049
3165-93-3
Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl-, hydrochloride
U093
60-11-7
Benzenamine, N,N-dimethyl-4-(phenylazo)-
U328
95-53-4
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-
U353
106-49-0
Benzenamine, 4-methyl-
U158
101-14-4
Benzenamine, 4,4′-methylenebis[2-chloro-
U222
636-21-5
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-, hydrochloride
U181
99-55-8
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-5-nitro-
U019
71-43-2
Benzene (I,T)
U038
510-15-6
Benzeneacetic acid, 4-chloro-alpha-(4-chlorophenyl)-alpha-hydroxy-, ethyl ester
U030
101-55-3
Benzene, 1-bromo-4-phenoxy-
U035
305-03-3
Benzenebutanoic acid, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
U037
108-90-7
Benzene, chloro-
U221
25376-45-8
Benzenediamine, ar-methyl-
U028
117-81-7
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester
U069
84-74-2
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dibutyl ester
U088
84-66-2
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester
U102
131-11-3
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester
U107
117-84-0
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dioctyl ester
U070
95-50-1
Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-
U071
541-73-1
Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-
U072
106-46-7
Benzene, 1,4-dichloro-
U060
72-54-8
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2-dichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
U017
98-87-3
Benzene, (dichloromethyl)-
U223
26471-62-5
Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanatomethyl- (R,T)
U239
1330-20-7
Benzene, dimethyl- (I)
U201
108-46-3
1,3-Benzenediol
U127
118-74-1
Benzene, hexachloro-
U056
110-82-7
Benzene, hexahydro- (I)
U220
108-88-3
Benzene, methyl-
U105
121-14-2
Benzene, 1-methyl-2,4-dinitro-
U106
606-20-2
Benzene, 2-methyl-1,3-dinitro-
U055
98-82-8
Benzene, (1-methylethyl)- (I)
U169
98-95-3
Benzene, nitro-
U183
608-93-5
Benzene, pentachloro-
U185
82-68-8
Benzene, pentachloronitro-
U020
98-09-9
Benzenesulfonic acid chloride (C,R)
U020
98-09-9
Benzenesulfonyl chloride (C,R)
U207
95-94-3
Benzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro-
U061
50-29-3
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
U247
72-43-5
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4- methoxy-
U023
98-07-7
Benzene, (trichloromethyl)-
U234
99-35-4
Benzene, 1,3,5-trinitro-
U021
92-87-5
Benzidine
U278
22781-23-3
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-, methyl carbamate.
U364
22961-82-6
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-,
U203
94-59-7
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(2-propenyl)-
U141
120-58-1
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(1-propenyl)-
U367
1563-38-8
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-
U090
94-58-6
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-propyl-
U064
189-55-9
Benzo[rst]pentaphene
U248
1
81-81-2
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenyl-butyl)-,
salts, when present at concentrations of 0.3% or less
U022
50-32-8
Benzo[a]pyrene
U197
106-51-4
p-Benzoquinone
U023
98-07-7
Benzotrichloride (C,R,T)
U085
1464-53-5
2,2′-Bioxirane
U021
92-87-5
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine
U073
91-94-1
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dichloro-
U091
119-90-4
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethoxy-
U095
119-93-7
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethyl-
U225
75-25-2
Bromoform
U030
101-55-3
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
U128
87-68-3
1,3-Butadiene, 1,1,2,3,4,4-hexachloro-
U172
924-16-3
1-Butanamine, N-butyl-N-nitroso-
U031
71-36-3
1-Butanol (I)
U159
78-93-3
2-Butanone (I,T)
U160
1338-23-4
2-Butanone, peroxide (R,T)
U053
4170-30-3
2-Butenal
U074
764-41-0
2-Butene, 1,4-dichloro- (I,T)
U143
303-34-4
2-Butenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 7-[[2,3-dihydroxy-
2-(1-methoxyethyl)-3-methyl-1-oxobutoxy]methyl]-
2,3,5,7a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolizin-1-yl ester,
[1S-[1alpha(Z),7(2S*,3R*),7aalpha]]-
U031
71-36-3
n-Butyl alcohol (I)
U136
75-60-5
Cacodylic acid
U032
13765-19-0
Calcium chromate
U372
10605-21-7
Carbamic acid, 1H-benzimidazol-2-yl, methyl ester.
U271
17804-35-2
Carbamic acid, [1-[(butylamino)carbonyl]-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl]-, methyl ester.
U280
101-27-9
Carbamic acid, (3-chlorophenyl)-, 4-chloro-2-butynyl ester.
U238
51-79-6
Carbamic acid, ethyl ester
U178
615-53-2
Carbamic acid, methylnitroso-, ethyl ester
U373
122-42-9
Carbamic acid, phenyl-, 1-methylethyl ester.
U409
23564-05-8
Carbamic acid, [1,2-phenylenebis (iminocarbonothioyl)]bis-, dimethyl ester.
U097
79-44-7
Carbamic chloride, dimethyl-
U389
2303-17-5
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3,3-trichloro-2-propenyl) ester.
U387
52888-80-9
Carbamothioic acid, dipropyl-, S-(phenylmethyl) ester.
U114
1
111-54-6
Carbamodithioic acid, 1,2-ethanediylbis-,
salts
esters
U062
2303-16-4
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3-di­chloro-2-propenyl) ester
U279
63-25-2
Carbaryl.
U372
10605-21-7
Carbendazim.
U367
1563-38-8
Carbofuran phenol.
U215
6533-73-9
Carbonic acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
U033
353-50-4
Carbonic difluoride
U156
79-22-1
Carbonochloridic acid, methyl ester (I,T)
U033
353-50-4
Carbon oxyfluoride (R,T)
U211
56-23-5
Carbon tetrachloride
U034
75-87-6
Chloral
U035
305-03-3
Chlorambucil
U036
57-74-9
Chlordane, alpha
gamma isomers
U026
494-03-1
Chlornaphazin
U037
108-90-7
Chlorobenzene
U038
510-15-6
Chlorobenzilate
U039
59-50-7
p-Chloro-m-cresol
U042
110-75-8
2-Chloroethyl vinyl ether
U044
67-66-3
Chloroform
U046
107-30-2
Chloromethyl methyl ether
U047
91-58-7
beta-Chloronaphthalene
U048
95-57-8
o-Chlorophenol
U049
3165-93-3
4-Chloro-o-toluidine, hydrochloride
U032
13765-19-0
Chromic acid H
2
CrO
4
, calcium salt
U050
218-01-9
Chrysene
U051
Creosote
U052
1319-77-3
Cresol (Cresylic acid)
U053
4170-30-3
Crotonaldehyde
U055
98-82-8
Cumene (I)
U246
506-68-3
Cyanogen bromide (CN)Br
U197
106-51-4
2,5-Cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione
U056
110-82-7
Cyclohexane (I)
U129
58-89-9
Cyclohexane, 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachloro-,
(1alpha,2alpha,3beta,4alpha,5alpha,6beta)-
U057
108-94-1
Cyclohexanone (I)
U130
77-47-4
1,3-Cyclopentadiene, 1,2,3,4,5,5-hexachloro-
U058
50-18-0
Cyclophosphamide
U240
1
94-75-7
2,4-D, salts
esters
U059
20830-81-3
Daunomycin
U060
72-54-8
DDD
U061
50-29-3
DDT
U062
2303-16-4
Diallate
U063
53-70-3
Dibenz[a,h]anthracene
U064
189-55-9
Dibenzo[a,i]pyrene
U066
96-12-8
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
U069
84-74-2
Dibutyl phthalate
U070
95-50-1
o-Dichlorobenzene
U071
541-73-1
m-Dichlorobenzene
U072
106-46-7
p-Dichlorobenzene
U073
91-94-1
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
U074
764-41-0
1,4-Dichloro-2-butene (I,T)
U075
75-71-8
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U078
75-35-4
1,1-Dichloroethylene
U079
156-60-5
1,2-Dichloroethylene
U025
111-44-4
Dichloroethyl ether
U027
108-60-1
Dichloroisopropyl ether
U024
111-91-1
Dichloromethoxy ethane
U081
120-83-2
2,4-Dichlorophenol
U082
87-65-0
2,6-Dichlorophenol
U084
542-75-6
1,3-Dichloropropene
U085
1464-53-5
1,2:3,4-Diepoxybutane (I,T)
U108
123-91-1
1,4-Diethyleneoxide
U028
117-81-7
Diethylhexyl phthalate
U395
5952-26-1
Diethylene glycol, dicarbamate.
U086
1615-80-1
N,N′-Diethylhydrazine
U087
3288-58-2
O,O-Diethyl S-methyl dithiophosphate
U088
84-66-2
Diethyl phthalate
U089
56-53-1
Diethylstilbesterol
U090
94-58-6
Dihydrosafrole
U091
119-90-4
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
U092
124-40-3
Dimethylamine (I)
U093
60-11-7
p-Dimethylaminoazobenzene
U094
57-97-6
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene
U095
119-93-7
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
U096
80-15-9
alpha,alpha-Dimethylbenzylhydroperoxide (R)
U097
79-44-7
Dimethylcarbamoyl chloride
U098
57-14-7
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
U099
540-73-8
1,2-Dimethylhydrazine
U101
105-67-9
2,4-Dimethylphenol
U102
131-11-3
Dimethyl phthalate
U103
77-78-1
Dimethyl sulfate
U105
121-14-2
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
U106
606-20-2
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
U107
117-84-0
Di-n-octyl phthalate
U108
123-91-1
1,4-Dioxane
U109
122-66-7
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
U110
142-84-7
Dipropylamine (I)
U111
621-64-7
Di-n-propylnitrosamine
U041
106-89-8
Epichlorohydrin
U001
75-07-0
Ethanal (I)
U404
121-44-8
Ethanamine, N,N-diethyl-
U174
55-18-5
Ethanamine, N-ethyl-N-nitroso-
U155
91-80-5
1,2-Ethanediamine, N,N-dimethyl-N′-2-pyridinyl-N′-(2-thienylmethyl)-
U067
106-93-4
Ethane, 1,2-dibromo-
U076
75-34-3
Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-
U077
107-06-2
Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-
U131
67-72-1
Ethane, hexachloro-
U024
111-91-1
Ethane, 1,1′-[methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-chloro-
U117
60-29-7
Ethane, 1,1′-oxybis-(I)
U025
111-44-4
Ethane, 1,1′-oxybis[2-chloro-
U184
76-01-7
Ethane, pentachloro-
U208
630-20-6
Ethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloro-
U209
79-34-5
Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloro-
U218
62-55-5
Ethanethioamide
U226
71-55-6
Ethane, 1,1,1-trichloro-
U227
79-00-5
Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro-
U410
59669-26-0
Ethanimidothioic acid, N,N′- [thiobis[(methylimino)carbonyloxy]]bis-, dimethyl ester
U394
30558-43-1
Ethanimidothioic acid, 2-(dimethylamino)-N-hydroxy-2-oxo-, methyl ester.
U359
110-80-5
Ethanol, 2-ethoxy-
U173
1116-54-7
Ethanol, 2,2′-(nitrosoimino)bis-
U395
5952-26-1
Ethanol, 2,2′-oxybis-, dicarbamate.
U004
98-86-2
Ethanone, 1-phenyl-
U043
75-01-4
Ethene, chloro-
U042
110-75-8
Ethene, (2-chloroethoxy)-
U078
75-35-4
Ethene, 1,1-dichloro-
U079
156-60-5
Ethene, 1,2-dichloro-, (E)-
U210
127-18-4
Ethene, tetrachloro-
U228
79-01-6
Ethene, trichloro-
U112
141-78-6
Ethyl acetate (I)
U113
140-88-5
Ethyl acrylate (I)
U238
51-79-6
Ethyl carbamate (urethane)
U117
60-29-7
Ethyl ether (I)
U114
1
111-54-6
Ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid, salts
esters
U067
106-93-4
Ethylene dibromide
U077
107-06-2
Ethylene dichloride
U359
110-80-5
Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether
U115
75-21-8
Ethylene oxide (I,T)
U116
96-45-7
Ethylenethiourea
U076
75-34-3
Ethylidene dichloride
U118
97-63-2
Ethyl methacrylate
U119
62-50-0
Ethyl methanesulfonate
U120
206-44-0
Fluoranthene
U122
50-00-0
Formaldehyde
U123
64-18-6
Formic acid (C,T)
U124
110-00-9
Furan (I)
U125
98-01-1
2-Furancarboxaldehyde (I)
U147
108-31-6
2,5-Furandione
U213
109-99-9
Furan, tetrahydro-(I)
U125
98-01-1
Furfural (I)
U124
110-00-9
Furfuran (I)
U206
18883-66-4
Glucopyranose, 2-deoxy-2-(3-methyl-3-nitrosoureido)-, D-
U206
18883-66-4
D-Glucose, 2-deoxy-2-[[(methylnitrosoamino)-
carbonyl]amino]-
U126
765-34-4
Glycidylaldehyde
U163
70-25-7
Guanidine, N-methyl-N′-nitro-N-nitroso-
U127
118-74-1
Hexachlorobenzene
U128
87-68-3
Hexachlorobutadiene
U130
77-47-4
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
U131
67-72-1
Hexachloroethane
U132
70-30-4
Hexachlorophene
U243
1888-71-7
Hexachloropropene
U133
302-01-2
Hydrazine (R,T)
U086
1615-80-1
Hydrazine, 1,2-diethyl-
U098
57-14-7
Hydrazine, 1,1-dimethyl-
U099
540-73-8
Hydrazine, 1,2-dimethyl-
U109
122-66-7
Hydrazine, 1,2-diphenyl-
U134
7664-39-3
Hydrofluoric acid (C,T)
U134
7664-39-3
Hydrogen fluoride (C,T)
U135
7783-06-4
Hydrogen sulfide
U135
7783-06-4
Hydrogen sulfide H
2
S
U096
80-15-9
Hydroperoxide, 1-methyl-1-phenylethyl- (R)
U116
96-45-7
2-Imidazolidinethione
U137
193-39-5
Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene
U190
85-44-9
1,3-Isobenzofurandione
U140
78-83-1
Isobutyl alcohol (I,T)
U141
120-58-1
Isosafrole
U142
143-50-0
Kepone
U143
303-34-4
Lasiocarpine
U144
301-04-2
Lead acetate
U146
1335-32-6
Lead, bis(acetato-O)tetrahydroxytri-
U145
7446-27-7
Lead phosphate
U146
1335-32-6
Lead subacetate
U129
58-89-9
Lindane
U163
70-25-7
MNNG
U147
108-31-6
Maleic anhydride
U148
123-33-1
Maleic hydrazide
U149
109-77-3
Malononitrile
U150
148-82-3
Melphalan
U151
7439-97-6
Mercury
U152
126-98-7
Methacrylonitrile (I, T)
U092
124-40-3
Methanamine, N-methyl- (I)
U029
74-83-9
Methane, bromo-
U045
74-87-3
Methane, chloro- (I, T)
U046
107-30-2
Methane, chloromethoxy-
U068
74-95-3
Methane, dibromo-
U080
75-09-2
Methane, dichloro-
U075
75-71-8
Methane, dichlorodifluoro-
U138
74-88-4
Methane, iodo-
U119
62-50-0
Methanesulfonic acid, ethyl ester
U211
56-23-5
Methane, tetrachloro-
U153
74-93-1
Methanethiol (I, T)
U225
75-25-2
Methane, tribromo-
U044
67-66-3
Methane, trichloro-
U121
75-69-4
Methane, trichlorofluoro-
U036
57-74-9
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,2,4,5,6,7,8,8-octachloro-2,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-
U154
67-56-1
Methanol (I)
U155
91-80-5
Methapyrilene
U142
143-50-0
1,3,4-Metheno-2H-cyclobuta[cd]pentalen-2-one, 1,1a,3,3a,4,5,5,5a,5b,6-decachlorooctahydro-
U247
72-43-5
Methoxychlor
U154
67-56-1
Methyl alcohol (I)
U029
74-83-9
Methyl bromide
U186
504-60-9
1-Methylbutadiene (I)
U045
74-87-3
Methyl chloride (I,T)
U156
79-22-1
Methyl chlorocarbonate (I,T)
U226
71-55-6
Methyl chloroform
U157
56-49-5
3-Methylcholanthrene
U158
101-14-4
4,4′-Methylenebis(2-chloroaniline)
U068
74-95-3
Methylene bromide
U080
75-09-2
Methylene chloride
U159
78-93-3
Methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) (I,T)
U160
1338-23-4
Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide (R,T)
U138
74-88-4
Methyl iodide
U161
108-10-1
Methyl isobutyl ketone (I)
U162
80-62-6
Methyl methacrylate (I,T)
U161
108-10-1
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (I)
U164
56-04-2
Methylthiouracil
U010
50-07-7
Mitomycin C
U059
20830-81-3
5,12-Naphthacenedione, 8-acetyl-10-[(3-amino-2,3,6-trideoxy)-alpha-L-lyxo-hexopyranosyl)oxy]-7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,8,11-trihydroxy-1-methoxy-, (8S-cis)-
U167
134-32-7
1-Naphthalenamine
U168
91-59-8
2-Naphthalenamine
U026
494-03-1
Naphthalenamine, N,N′-bis(2-chloroethyl)-
U165
91-20-3
Naphthalene
U047
91-58-7
Naphthalene, 2-chloro-
U166
130-15-4
1,4-Naphthalenedione
U236
72-57-1
2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3′-[(3,3′-
dimethyl[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diyl)bis(azo)bis[5-amino-4-hydroxy]-, tetrasodium salt
U279
63-25-2
1-Naphthalenol, methylcarbamate.
U166
130-15-4
1,4-Naphthoquinone
U167
134-32-7
alpha-Naphthylamine
U168
91-59-8
beta-Naphthylamine
U217
10102-45-1
Nitric acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
U169
98-95-3
Nitrobenzene (I,T)
U170
100-02-7
p-Nitrophenol
U171
79-46-9
2-Nitropropane (I,T)
U172
924-16-3
N-Nitrosodi-n-butylamine
U173
1116-54-7
N-Nitrosodiethanolamine
U174
55-18-5
N-Nitrosodiethylamine
U176
759-73-9
N-Nitroso-N-ethylurea
U177
684-93-5
N-Nitroso-N-methylurea
U178
615-53-2
N-Nitroso-N-methylurethane
U179
100-75-4
N-Nitrosopiperidine
U180
930-55-2
N-Nitrosopyrrolidine
U181
99-55-8
5-Nitro-o-toluidine
U193
1120-71-4
1,2-Oxathiolane, 2,2-dioxide
U058
50-18-0
2H-1,3,2-Oxazaphosphorin-2-amine,
N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)tetrahydro-, 2-oxide
U115
75-21-8
Oxirane (I,T)
U126
765-34-4
Oxiranecarboxyaldehyde
U041
106-89-8
Oxirane, (chloromethyl)-
U182
123-63-7
Paraldehyde
U183
608-93-5
Pentachlorobenzene
U184
76-01-7
Pentachloroethane
U185
82-68-8
Pentachloronitrobenzene (PCNB)
See F027
87-86-5
Pentachlorophenol
U161
108-10-1
Pentanol, 4-methyl-
U186
504-60-9
1,3-Pentadiene (I)
U187
62-44-2
Phenacetin
U188
108-95-2
Phenol
U048
95-57-8
Phenol, 2-chloro-
U039
59-50-7
Phenol, 4-chloro-3-methyl-
U081
120-83-2
Phenol, 2,4-dichloro-
U082
87-65-0
Phenol, 2,6-dichloro-
U089
56-53-1
Phenol, 4,4′-(1,2-diethyl-1,2-ethenediyl)bis-, (E)-
U101
105-67-9
Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-
U052
1319-77-3
Phenol, methyl-
U132
70-30-4
Phenol, 2,2′-methylenebis[3,4,6-trichloro-
U411
114-26-1
Phenol, 2-(1-methylethoxy)-, methylcarbamate.
U170
100-02-7
Phenol, 4-nitro-
See F027
87-86-5
Phenol, pentachloro-
See F027
58-90-2
Phenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachloro-
See F027
95-95-4
Phenol, 2,4,5-trichloro-
See F027
88-06-2
Phenol, 2,4,6-trichloro-
U150
148-82-3
L-Phenylalanine, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
U145
7446-27-7
Phosphoric acid, lead(2 + ) salt (2:3)
U087
3288-58-2
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-methyl ester
U189
1314-80-3
Phosphorus sulfide (R)
U190
85-44-9
Phthalic anhydride
U191
109-06-8
2-Picoline
U179
100-75-4
Piperidine, 1-nitroso-
U192
23950-58-5
Pronamide
U194
107-10-8
1-Propanamine (I,T)
U111
621-64-7
1-Propanamine, N-nitroso-N-propyl-
U110
142-84-7
1-Propanamine, N-propyl- (I)
U066
96-12-8
Propane, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloro-
U083
78-87-5
Propane, 1,2-dichloro-
U149
109-77-3
Propanedinitrile
U171
79-46-9
Propane, 2-nitro- (I,T)
U027
108-60-1
Propane, 2,2′-oxybis[2-chloro-
U193
1120-71-4
1,3-Propane sultone
See F027
93-72-1
Propanoic acid, 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
U235
126-72-7
1-Propanol, 2,3-dibromo-, phosphate (3:1)
U140
78-83-1
1-Propanol, 2-methyl- (I,T)
U002
67-64-1
2-Propanone (I)
U007
79-06-1
2-Propenamide
U084
542-75-6
1-Propene, 1,3-dichloro-
U243
1888-71-7
1-Propene, 1,1,2,3,3,3-hexachloro-
U009
107-13-1
2-Propenenitrile
U152
126-98-7
2-Propenenitrile, 2-methyl- (I,T)
U008
79-10-7
2-Propenoic acid (I)
U113
140-88-5
2-Propenoic acid, ethyl ester (I)
U118
97-63-2
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, ethyl ester
U162
80-62-6
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester (I,T)
U373
122-42-9
Propham.
U411
114-26-1
Propoxur.
U387
52888-80-9
Prosulfocarb.
U194
107-10-8
n-Propylamine (I,T)
U083
78-87-5
Propylene dichloride
U148
123-33-1
3,6-Pyridazinedione, 1,2-dihydro-
U196
110-86-1
Pyridine
U191
109-06-8
Pyridine, 2-methyl-
U237
66-75-1
2,4-(1H,3H)-Pyrimidinedione, 5-[bis(2-
chloroethyl)amino]-
U164
56-04-2
4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-2-thioxo-
U180
930-55-2
Pyrrolidine, 1-nitroso-
U200
50-55-5
Reserpine
U201
108-46-3
Resorcinol
U203
94-59-7
Safrole
U204
7783-00-8
Selenious acid
U204
7783-00-8
Selenium dioxide
U205
7488-56-4
Selenium sulfide
U205
7488-56-4
Selenium sulfide SeS
2
(R,T)
U015
115-02-6
L-Serine, diazoacetate (ester)
See F027
93-72-1
Silvex (2,4,5-TP)
U206
18883-66-4
Streptozotocin
U103
77-78-1
Sulfuric acid, dimethyl ester
U189
1314-80-3
Sulfur phosphide (R)
See F027
93-76-5
2,4,5-T
U207
95-94-3
1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene
U208
630-20-6
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U209
79-34-5
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U210
127-18-4
Tetrachloroethylene
See F027
58-90-2
2,3,4,6-Tetrachlorophenol
U213
109-99-9
Tetrahydrofuran (I)
U214
563-68-8
Thallium(I) acetate
U215
6533-73-9
Thallium(I) carbonate
U216
7791-12-0
Thallium(I) chloride
U216
7791-12-0
thallium chloride TlCl
U217
10102-45-1
Thallium(I) nitrate
U218
62-55-5
Thioacetamide
U410
59669-26-0
Thiodicarb.
U153
74-93-1
Thiomethanol (I,T)
U244
137-26-8
Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
S
2
, tetramethyl-
U409
23564-05-8
Thiophanate-methyl.
U219
62-56-6
Thiourea
U244
137-26-8
Thiram
U220
108-88-3
Toluene
U221
25376-45-8
Toluenediamine
U223
26471-62-5
Toluene diisocyanate (R,T)
U328
95-53-4
o-Toluidine
U353
106-49-0
p-Toluidine
U222
636-21-5
o-Toluidine hydrochloride
U389
2303-17-5
Triallate.
U011
61-82-5
1H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-amine
U226
71-55-6
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U227
79-00-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U228
79-01-6
Trichloroethylene
U121
75-69-4
Trichloromonofluoromethane
See F027
95-95-4
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
See F027
88-06-2
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
U404
121-44-8
Triethylamine.
U234
99-35-4
1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene (R,T)
U182
123-63-7
1,3,5-Trioxane, 2,4,6-trimethyl-
U235
126-72-7
Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate
U236
72-57-1
Trypan blue
U237
66-75-1
Uracil mustard
U176
759-73-9
Urea, N-ethyl-N-nitroso-
U177
684-93-5
Urea, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
U043
75-01-4
Vinyl chloride
U248
1
81-81-2
Warfarin,
salts, when present at concentrations of 0.3% or less
U239
1330-20-7
Xylene (I)
U200
50-55-5
Yohimban-16-carboxylic acid, 11,17-dimethoxy-18-[(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyl)oxy]-, methyl ester, (3beta,16beta,17alpha,18beta,20alpha)-
U249
1314-84-7
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations of 10% or less
U001
75-07-0
Acetaldehyde (I)
U001
75-07-0
Ethanal (I)
U002
67-64-1
Acetone (I)
U002
67-64-1
2-Propanone (I)
U003
75-05-8
Acetonitrile (I,T)
U004
98-86-2
Acetophenone
U004
98-86-2
Ethanone, 1-phenyl-
U005
53-96-3
Acetamide, -9H-fluoren-2-yl-
U005
53-96-3
2-Acetylaminofluorene
U006
75-36-5
Acetyl chloride (C,R,T)
U007
79-06-1
Acrylamide
U007
79-06-1
2-Propenamide
U008
79-10-7
Acrylic acid (I)
U008
79-10-7
2-Propenoic acid (I)
U009
107-13-1
Acrylonitrile
U009
107-13-1
2-Propenenitrile
U010
50-07-7
Azirino[2′,3′:3,4]pyrrolo[1,2-a]indole-4,7-dione, 6-amino-8-[[(aminocarbonyl)oxy]methyl]-1,1a,2,8,8a,8b-hexahydro-8a-methoxy-5-methyl-, [1aS-(1aalpha, 8beta,8aalpha,8balpha)]-
U010
50-07-7
Mitomycin C
U011
61-82-5
Amitrole
U011
61-82-5
1H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-amine
U012
62-53-3
Aniline (I,T)
U012
62-53-3
Benzenamine (I,T)
U014
492-80-8
Auramine
U014
492-80-8
Benzenamine, 4,4′-carbonimidoylbis[N,N-dimethyl-
U015
115-02-6
Azaserine
U015
115-02-6
L-Serine, diazoacetate (ester)
U016
225-51-4
Benz[c]acridine
U017
98-87-3
Benzal chloride
U017
98-87-3
Benzene, (dichloromethyl)-
U018
56-55-3
Benz[a]anthracene
U019
71-43-2
Benzene (I,T)
U020
98-09-9
Benzenesulfonic acid chloride (C,R)
U020
98-09-9
Benzenesulfonyl chloride (C,R)
U021
92-87-5
Benzidine
U021
92-87-5
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine
U022
50-32-8
Benzo[a]pyrene
U023
98-07-7
Benzene, (trichloromethyl)-
U023
98-07-7
Benzotrichloride (C,R,T)
U024
111-91-1
Dichloromethoxy ethane
U024
111-91-1
Ethane, 1,1′-[methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-chloro-
U025
111-44-4
Dichloroethyl ether
U025
111-44-4
Ethane, 1,1′-oxybis[2-chloro-
U026
494-03-1
Chlornaphazin
U026
494-03-1
Naphthalenamine, N,N′-bis(2-chloroethyl)-
U027
108-60-1
Dichloroisopropyl ether
U027
108-60-1
Propane, 2,2′-oxybis[2-chloro-
U028
117-81-7
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester
U028
117-81-7
Diethylhexyl phthalate
U029
74-83-9
Methane, bromo-
U029
74-83-9
Methyl bromide
U030
101-55-3
Benzene, 1-bromo-4-phenoxy-
U030
101-55-3
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
U031
71-36-3
1-Butanol (I)
U031
71-36-3
n-Butyl alcohol (I)
U032
13765-19-0
Calcium chromate
U032
13765-19-0
Chromic acid H
2
CrO
4
, calcium salt
U033
353-50-4
Carbonic difluoride
U033
353-50-4
Carbon oxyfluoride (R,T)
U034
75-87-6
Acetaldehyde, trichloro-
U034
75-87-6
Chloral
U035
305-03-3
Benzenebutanoic acid, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
U035
305-03-3
Chlorambucil
U036
57-74-9
Chlordane, alpha
gamma isomers
U036
57-74-9
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,2,4,5,6,7,8,8-octachloro-2,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-
U037
108-90-7
Benzene, chloro-
U037
108-90-7
Chlorobenzene
U038
510-15-6
Benzeneacetic acid, 4-chloro-alpha-(4-chlorophenyl)-alpha-hydroxy-, ethyl ester
U038
510-15-6
Chlorobenzilate
U039
59-50-7
p-Chloro-m-cresol
U039
59-50-7
Phenol, 4-chloro-3-methyl-
U041
106-89-8
Epichlorohydrin
U041
106-89-8
Oxirane, (chloromethyl)-
U042
110-75-8
2-Chloroethyl vinyl ether
U042
110-75-8
Ethene, (2-chloroethoxy)-
U043
75-01-4
Ethene, chloro-
U043
75-01-4
Vinyl chloride
U044
67-66-3
Chloroform
U044
67-66-3
Methane, trichloro-
U045
74-87-3
Methane, chloro- (I,T)
U045
74-87-3
Methyl chloride (I,T)
U046
107-30-2
Chloromethyl methyl ether
U046
107-30-2
Methane, chloromethoxy-
U047
91-58-7
beta-Chloronaphthalene
U047
91-58-7
Naphthalene, 2-chloro-
U048
95-57-8
o-Chlorophenol
U048
95-57-8
Phenol, 2-chloro-
U049
3165-93-3
Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl-, hydrochloride
U049
3165-93-3
4-Chloro-o-toluidine, hydrochloride
U050
218-01-9
Chrysene
U051
Creosote
U052
1319-77-3
Cresol (Cresylic acid)
U052
1319-77-3
Phenol, methyl-
U053
4170-30-3
2-Butenal
U053
4170-30-3
Crotonaldehyde
U055
98-82-8
Benzene, (1-methylethyl)-(I)
U055
98-82-8
Cumene (I)
U056
110-82-7
Benzene, hexahydro-(I)
U056
110-82-7
Cyclohexane (I)
U057
108-94-1
Cyclohexanone (I)
U058
50-18-0
Cyclophosphamide
U058
50-18-0
2H-1,3,2-Oxazaphosphorin-2-amine, N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)tetrahydro-, 2-oxide
U059
20830-81-3
Daunomycin
U059
20830-81-3
5,12-Naphthacenedione, 8-acetyl-10-[(3-amino-2,3,6-trideoxy)-alpha-L-lyxo-hexopyranosyl)oxy]-7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,8,11-trihydroxy-1-methoxy-, (8S-cis)-
U060
72-54-8
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2-dichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
U060
72-54-8
DDD
U061
50-29-3
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
U061
50-29-3
DDT
U062
2303-16-4
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3-di chloro-2-propenyl) ester
U062
2303-16-4
Diallate
U063
53-70-3
Dibenz[a,h]anthracene
U064
189-55-9
Benzo[rst]pentaphene
U064
189-55-9
Dibenzo[a,i]pyrene
U066
96-12-8
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
U066
96-12-8
Propane, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloro-
U067
106-93-4
Ethane, 1,2-dibromo-
U067
106-93-4
Ethylene dibromide
U068
74-95-3
Methane, dibromo-
U068
74-95-3
Methylene bromide
U069
84-74-2
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dibutyl ester
U069
84-74-2
Dibutyl phthalate
U070
95-50-1
Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-
U070
95-50-1
o-Dichlorobenzene
U071
541-73-1
Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-
U071
541-73-1
m-Dichlorobenzene
U072
106-46-7
Benzene, 1,4-dichloro-
U072
106-46-7
p-Dichlorobenzene
U073
91-94-1
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dichloro-
U073
91-94-1
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
U074
764-41-0
2-Butene, 1,4-dichloro-(I,T)
U074
764-41-0
1,4-Dichloro-2-butene (I,T)
U075
75-71-8
Dichlorodifluoromethane
U075
75-71-8
Methane, dichlorodifluoro-
U076
75-34-3
Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-
U076
75-34-3
Ethylidene dichloride
U077
107-06-2
Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-
U077
107-06-2
Ethylene dichloride
U078
75-35-4
1,1-Dichloroethylene
U078
75-35-4
Ethene, 1,1-dichloro-
U079
156-60-5
1,2-Dichloroethylene
U079
156-60-5
Ethene, 1,2-dichloro-, (E)-
U080
75-09-2
Methane, dichloro-
U080
75-09-2
Methylene chloride
U081
120-83-2
2,4-Dichlorophenol
U081
120-83-2
Phenol, 2,4-dichloro-
U082
87-65-0
2,6-Dichlorophenol
U082
87-65-0
Phenol, 2,6-dichloro-
U083
78-87-5
Propane, 1,2-dichloro-
U083
78-87-5
Propylene dichloride
U084
542-75-6
1,3-Dichloropropene
U084
542-75-6
1-Propene, 1,3-dichloro-
U085
1464-53-5
2,2′-Bioxirane
U085
1464-53-5
1,2:3,4-Diepoxybutane (I,T)
U086
1615-80-1
N,N′-Diethylhydrazine
U086
1615-80-1
Hydrazine, 1,2-diethyl-
U087
3288-58-2
O,O-Diethyl S-methyl dithiophosphate
U087
3288-58-2
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-methyl ester
U088
84-66-2
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester
U088
84-66-2
Diethyl phthalate
U089
56-53-1
Diethylstilbesterol
U089
56-53-1
Phenol, 4,4′-(1,2-diethyl-1,2-ethenediyl)bis-, (E)-
U090
94-58-6
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-propyl-
U090
94-58-6
Dihydrosafrole
U091
119-90-4
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethoxy-
U091
119-90-4
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
U092
124-40-3
Dimethylamine (I)
U092
124-40-3
Methanamine, -methyl-(I)
U093
60-11-7
Benzenamine, N,N-dimethyl-4-(phenylazo)-
U093
60-11-7
p-Dimethylaminoazobenzene
U094
57-97-6
Benz[a]anthracene, 7,12-dimethyl-
U094
57-97-6
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene
U095
119-93-7
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethyl-
U095
119-93-7
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
U096
80-15-9
alpha,alpha-Dimethylbenzylhydroperoxide (R)
U096
80-15-9
Hydroperoxide, 1-methyl-1-phenylethyl-(R)
U097
79-44-7
Carbamic chloride, dimethyl-
U097
79-44-7
Dimethylcarbamoyl chloride
U098
57-14-7
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
U098
57-14-7
Hydrazine, 1,1-dimethyl-
U099
540-73-8
1,2-Dimethylhydrazine
U099
540-73-8
Hydrazine, 1,2-dimethyl-
U101
105-67-9
2,4-Dimethylphenol
U101
105-67-9
Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-
U102
131-11-3
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester
U102
131-11-3
Dimethyl phthalate
U103
77-78-1
Dimethyl sulfate
U103
77-78-1
Sulfuric acid, dimethyl ester
U105
121-14-2
Benzene, 1-methyl-2,4-dinitro-
U105
121-14-2
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
U106
606-20-2
Benzene, 2-methyl-1,3-dinitro-
U106
606-20-2
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
U107
117-84-0
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dioctyl ester
U107
117-84-0
Di-n-octyl phthalate
U108
123-91-1
1,4-Diethyleneoxide
U108
123-91-1
1,4-Dioxane
U109
122-66-7
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
U109
122-66-7
Hydrazine, 1,2-diphenyl-
U110
142-84-7
Dipropylamine (I)
U110
142-84-7
1-Propanamine, N-propyl-(I)
U111
621-64-7
Di-n-propylnitrosamine
U111
621-64-7
1-Propanamine, N-nitroso-N-propyl-
U112
141-78-6
Acetic acid ethyl ester (I)
U112
141-78-6
Ethyl acetate (I)
U113
140-88-5
Ethyl acrylate (I)
U113
140-88-5
2-Propenoic acid, ethyl ester (I)
U114
1
111-54-6
Carbamodithioic acid, 1,2-ethanediylbis-, salts
esters
U114
1
111-54-6
Ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid, salts
esters
U115
75-21-8
Ethylene oxide (I,T)
U115
75-21-8
Oxirane (I,T)
U116
96-45-7
Ethylenethiourea
U116
96-45-7
2-Imidazolidinethione
U117
60-29-7
Ethane, 1,1′-oxybis-(I)
U117
60-29-7
Ethyl ether (I)
U118
97-63-2
Ethyl methacrylate
U118
97-63-2
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, ethyl ester
U119
62-50-0
Ethyl methanesulfonate
U119
62-50-0
Methanesulfonic acid, ethyl ester
U120
206-44-0
Fluoranthene
U121
75-69-4
Methane, trichlorofluoro-
U121
75-69-4
Trichloromonofluoromethane
U122
50-00-0
Formaldehyde
U123
64-18-6
Formic acid (C,T)
U124
110-00-9
Furan (I)
U124
110-00-9
Furfuran (I)
U125
98-01-1
2-Furancarboxaldehyde (I)
U125
98-01-1
Furfural (I)
U126
765-34-4
Glycidylaldehyde
U126
765-34-4
Oxiranecarboxyaldehyde
U127
118-74-1
Benzene, hexachloro-
U127
118-74-1
Hexachlorobenzene
U128
87-68-3
1,3-Butadiene, 1,1,2,3,4,4-hexachloro-
U128
87-68-3
Hexachlorobutadiene
U129
58-89-9
Cyclohexane, 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachloro-, (1alpha,2alpha,3beta,4alpha,5alpha,6beta)-
U129
58-89-9
Lindane
U130
77-47-4
1,3-Cyclopentadiene, 1,2,3,4,5,5-hexachloro-
U130
77-47-4
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
U131
67-72-1
Ethane, hexachloro-
U131
67-72-1
Hexachloroethane
U132
70-30-4
Hexachlorophene
U132
70-30-4
Phenol, 2,2′-methylenebis[3,4,6-trichloro-
U133
302-01-2
Hydrazine (R,T)
U134
7664-39-3
Hydrofluoric acid (C,T)
U134
7664-39-3
Hydrogen fluoride (C,T)
U135
7783-06-4
Hydrogen sulfide
U135
7783-06-4
Hydrogen sulfide H
2
S
U136
75-60-5
Arsinic acid, dimethyl-
U136
75-60-5
Cacodylic acid
U137
193-39-5
Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene
U138
74-88-4
Methane, iodo-
U138
74-88-4
Methyl iodide
U140
78-83-1
Isobutyl alcohol (I,T)
U140
78-83-1
1-Propanol, 2-methyl- (I,T)
U141
120-58-1
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(1-propenyl)-
U141
120-58-1
Isosafrole
U142
143-50-0
Kepone
U142
143-50-0
1,3,4-Metheno-2H-cyclobuta[cd]pentalen-2-one, 1,1a,3,3a,4,5,5,5a,5b,6-decachlorooctahydro-
U143
303-34-4
2-Butenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 7-[[2,3-dihydroxy-2-(1-methoxyethyl)-3-methyl-1-oxobutoxy]methyl]-2,3,5,7a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolizin-1-yl ester, [1S-[1alpha(Z),7(2S*,3R*),7aalpha]]-
U143
303-34-4
Lasiocarpine
U144
301-04-2
Acetic acid, lead(2 + ) salt
U144
301-04-2
Lead acetate
U145
7446-27-7
Lead phosphate
U145
7446-27-7
Phosphoric acid, lead(2 + ) salt (2:3)
U146
1335-32-6
Lead, bis(acetato-O)tetrahydroxytri-
U146
1335-32-6
Lead subacetate
U147
108-31-6
2,5-Furandione
U147
108-31-6
Maleic anhydride
U148
123-33-1
Maleic hydrazide
U148
123-33-1
3,6-Pyridazinedione, 1,2-dihydro-
U149
109-77-3
Malononitrile
U149
109-77-3
Propanedinitrile
U150
148-82-3
Melphalan
U150
148-82-3
L-Phenylalanine, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
U151
7439-97-6
Mercury
U152
126-98-7
Methacrylonitrile (I,T)
U152
126-98-7
2-Propenenitrile, 2-methyl- (I,T)
U153
74-93-1
Methanethiol (I,T)
U153
74-93-1
Thiomethanol (I,T)
U154
67-56-1
Methanol (I)
U154
67-56-1
Methyl alcohol (I)
U155
91-80-5
1,2-Ethanediamine, N,N-dimethyl-N′-2-pyridinyl-N′-(2-thienylmethyl)-
U155
91-80-5
Methapyrilene
U156
79-22-1
Carbonochloridic acid, methyl ester (I,T)
U156
79-22-1
Methyl chlorocarbonate (I,T)
U157
56-49-5
Benz[j]aceanthrylene, 1,2-dihydro-3-methyl-
U157
56-49-5
3-Methylcholanthrene
U158
101-14-4
Benzenamine, 4,4′-methylenebis[2-chloro-
U158
101-14-4
4,4′-Methylenebis(2-chloroaniline)
U159
78-93-3
2-Butanone (I,T)
U159
78-93-3
Methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) (I,T)
U160
1338-23-4
2-Butanone, peroxide (R,T)
U160
1338-23-4
Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide (R,T)
U161
108-10-1
Methyl isobutyl ketone (I)
U161
108-10-1
4-Methyl-2-pentanone (I)
U161
108-10-1
Pentanol, 4-methyl-
U162
80-62-6
Methyl methacrylate (I,T)
U162
80-62-6
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester (I,T)
U163
70-25-7
Guanidine, -methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitroso-
U163
70-25-7
MNNG
U164
56-04-2
Methylthiouracil
U164
56-04-2
4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-2-thioxo-
U165
91-20-3
Naphthalene
U166
130-15-4
1,4-Naphthalenedione
U166
130-15-4
1,4-Naphthoquinone
U167
134-32-7
1-Naphthalenamine
U167
134-32-7
alpha-Naphthylamine
U168
91-59-8
2-Naphthalenamine
U168
91-59-8
beta-Naphthylamine
U169
98-95-3
Benzene, nitro-
U169
98-95-3
Nitrobenzene (I,T)
U170
100-02-7
p-Nitrophenol
U170
100-02-7
Phenol, 4-nitro-
U171
79-46-9
2-Nitropropane (I,T)
U171
79-46-9
Propane, 2-nitro- (I,T)
U172
924-16-3
1-Butanamine, N-butyl-N-nitroso-
U172
924-16-3
N-Nitrosodi-n-butylamine
U173
1116-54-7
Ethanol, 2,2′-(nitrosoimino)bis-
U173
1116-54-7
N-Nitrosodiethanolamine
U174
55-18-5
Ethanamine, -ethyl-N-nitroso-
U174
55-18-5
N-Nitrosodiethylamine
U176
759-73-9
N-Nitroso-N-ethylurea
U176
759-73-9
Urea, N-ethyl-N-nitroso-
U177
684-93-5
N-Nitroso-N-methylurea
U177
684-93-5
Urea, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
U178
615-53-2
Carbamic acid, methylnitroso-, ethyl ester
U178
615-53-2
N-Nitroso-N-methylurethane
U179
100-75-4
N-Nitrosopiperidine
U179
100-75-4
Piperidine, 1-nitroso-
U180
930-55-2
N-Nitrosopyrrolidine
U180
930-55-2
Pyrrolidine, 1-nitroso-
U181
99-55-8
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-5-nitro-
U181
99-55-8
5-Nitro-o-toluidine
U182
123-63-7
1,3,5-Trioxane, 2,4,6-trimethyl-
U182
123-63-7
Paraldehyde
U183
608-93-5
Benzene, pentachloro-
U183
608-93-5
Pentachlorobenzene
U184
76-01-7
Ethane, pentachloro-
U184
76-01-7
Pentachloroethane
U185
82-68-8
Benzene, pentachloronitro-
U185
82-68-8
Pentachloronitrobenzene (PCNB)
U186
504-60-9
1-Methylbutadiene (I)
U186
504-60-9
1,3-Pentadiene (I)
U187
62-44-2
Acetamide, -(4-ethoxyphenyl)-
U187
62-44-2
Phenacetin
U188
108-95-2
Phenol
U189
1314-80-3
Phosphorus sulfide (R)
U189
1314-80-3
Sulfur phosphide (R)
U190
85-44-9
1,3-Isobenzofurandione
U190
85-44-9
Phthalic anhydride
U191
109-06-8
2-Picoline
U191
109-06-8
Pyridine, 2-methyl-
U192
23950-58-5
Benzamide, 3,5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethyl-2-propynyl)-
U192
23950-58-5
Pronamide
U193
1120-71-4
1,2-Oxathiolane, 2,2-dioxide
U193
1120-71-4
1,3-Propane sultone
U194
107-10-8
1-Propanamine (I,T)
U194
107-10-8
n-Propylamine (I,T)
U196
110-86-1
Pyridine
U197
106-51-4
p-Benzoquinone
U197
106-51-4
2,5-Cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione
U200
50-55-5
Reserpine
U200
50-55-5
Yohimban-16-carboxylic acid, 11,17-dimethoxy-18-[(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyl)oxy]-, methyl ester,(3beta,16beta,17alpha,18beta,20alpha)-
U201
108-46-3
1,3-Benzenediol
U201
108-46-3
Resorcinol
U203
94-59-7
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(2-propenyl)-
U203
94-59-7
Safrole
U204
7783-00-8
Selenious acid
U204
7783-00-8
Selenium dioxide
U205
7488-56-4
Selenium sulfide
U205
7488-56-4
Selenium sulfide SeS
2
(R,T)
U206
18883-66-4
Glucopyranose, 2-deoxy-2-(3-methyl-3-nitrosoureido)-, D-
U206
18883-66-4
D-Glucose, 2-deoxy-2-[[(methylnitrosoamino)-carbonyl]amino]-
U206
18883-66-4
Streptozotocin
U207
95-94-3
Benzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro-
U207
95-94-3
1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene
U208
630-20-6
Ethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloro-
U208
630-20-6
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
U209
79-34-5
Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloro-
U209
79-34-5
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
U210
127-18-4
Ethene, tetrachloro-
U210
127-18-4
Tetrachloroethylene
U211
56-23-5
Carbon tetrachloride
U211
56-23-5
Methane, tetrachloro-
U213
109-99-9
Furan, tetrahydro-(I)
U213
109-99-9
Tetrahydrofuran (I)
U214
563-68-8
Acetic acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
U214
563-68-8
Thallium(I) acetate
U215
6533-73-9
Carbonic acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
U215
6533-73-9
Thallium(I) carbonate
U216
7791-12-0
Thallium(I) chloride
U216
7791-12-0
Thallium chloride TlCl
U217
10102-45-1
Nitric acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
U217
10102-45-1
Thallium(I) nitrate
U218
62-55-5
Ethanethioamide
U218
62-55-5
Thioacetamide
U219
62-56-6
Thiourea
U220
108-88-3
Benzene, methyl-
U220
108-88-3
Toluene
U221
25376-45-8
Benzenediamine, ar-methyl-
U221
25376-45-8
Toluenediamine
U222
636-21-5
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-, hydrochloride
U222
636-21-5
o-Toluidine hydrochloride
U223
26471-62-5
Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanatomethyl- (R,T)
U223
26471-62-5
Toluene diisocyanate (R,T)
U225
75-25-2
Bromoform
U225
75-25-2
Methane, tribromo-
U226
71-55-6
Ethane, 1,1,1-trichloro-
U226
71-55-6
Methyl chloroform
U226
71-55-6
1,1,1-Trichloroethane
U227
79-00-5
Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro-
U227
79-00-5
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
U228
79-01-6
Ethene, trichloro-
U228
79-01-6
Trichloroethylene
U234
99-35-4
Benzene, 1,3,5-trinitro-
U234
99-35-4
1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene (R,T)
U235
126-72-7
1-Propanol, 2,3-dibromo-, phosphate (3:1)
U235
126-72-7
Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate
U236
72-57-1
2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3′-[(3,3′-dimethyl[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diyl)bis(azo)bis[5-amino-4-hydroxy]-, tetrasodium salt
U236
72-57-1
Trypan blue
U237
66-75-1
2,4-(1H,3H)-Pyrimidinedione, 5-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
U237
66-75-1
Uracil mustard
U238
51-79-6
Carbamic acid, ethyl ester
U238
51-79-6
Ethyl carbamate (urethane)
U239
1330-20-7
Benzene, dimethyl- (I,T)
U239
1330-20-7
Xylene (I)
U240
1
94-75-7
Acetic acid, (2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-, salts
esters
U240
1
94-75-7
2,4-D, salts
esters
U243
1888-71-7
Hexachloropropene
U243
1888-71-7
1-Propene, 1,1,2,3,3,3-hexachloro-
U244
137-26-8
Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
S
2
, tetramethyl-
U244
137-26-8
Thiram
U246
506-68-3
Cyanogen bromide (CN)Br
U247
72-43-5
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4- methoxy-
U247
72-43-5
Methoxychlor
U248
1
81-81-2
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenyl-butyl)-,
salts, when present at concentrations of 0.3% or less
U248
1
81-81-2
Warfarin,
salts, when present at concentrations of 0.3% or less
U249
1314-84-7
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations of 10% or less
U271
17804-35-2
Benomyl
U271
17804-35-2
Carbamic acid, [1-[(butylamino)carbonyl]-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl]-, methyl ester
U278
22781-23-3
Bendiocarb
U278
22781-23-3
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-, methyl carbamate
U279
63-25-2
Carbaryl
U279
63-25-2
1-Naphthalenol, methylcarbamate
U280
101-27-9
Barban
U280
101-27-9
Carbamic acid, (3-chlorophenyl)-, 4-chloro-2-butynyl ester
U328
95-53-4
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-
U328
95-53-4
o-Toluidine
U353
106-49-0
Benzenamine, 4-methyl-
U353
106-49-0
p-Toluidine
U359
110-80-5
Ethanol, 2-ethoxy-
U359
110-80-5
Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether
U364
22961-82-6
Bendiocarb phenol
U364
22961-82-6
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-,
U367
1563-38-8
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-
U367
1563-38-8
Carbofuran phenol
U372
10605-21-7
Carbamic acid, 1H-benzimidazol-2-yl, methyl ester
U372
10605-21-7
Carbendazim
U373
122-42-9
Carbamic acid, phenyl-, 1-methylethyl ester
U373
122-42-9
Propham
U387
52888-80-9
Carbamothioic acid, dipropyl-, S-(phenylmethyl) ester
U387
52888-80-9
Prosulfocarb
U389
2303-17-5
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3,3-trichloro-2-propenyl) ester
U389
2303-17-5
Triallate
U394
30558-43-1
A2213
U394
30558-43-1
Ethanimidothioic acid, 2-(dimethylamino)-N-hydroxy-2-oxo-, methyl ester
U395
5952-26-1
Diethylene glycol, dicarbamate
U395
5952-26-1
Ethanol, 2,2′-oxybis-, dicarbamate
U404
121-44-8
Ethanamine, N,N-diethyl-
U404
121-44-8
Triethylamine
U409
23564-05-8
Carbamic acid, [1,2-phenylenebis (iminocarbonothioyl)]bis-, dimethyl ester
U409
23564-05-8
Thiophanate-methyl
U410
59669-26-0
Ethanimidothioic acid, N,N′-[thiobis[(methylimino)carbonyloxy]]bis-, dimethyl ester
U410
59669-26-0
Thiodicarb
U411
114-26-1
Phenol, 2-(1-methylethoxy)-, methylcarbamate
U411
114-26-1
Propoxur
See F027
93-76-5
Acetic acid, (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
See F027
87-86-5
Pentachlorophenol
See F027
87-86-5
Phenol, pentachloro-
See F027
58-90-2
Phenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachloro-
See F027
95-95-4
Phenol, 2,4,5-trichloro-
See F027
88-06-2
Phenol, 2,4,6-trichloro-
See F027
93-72-1
Propanoic acid, 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
See F027
93-72-1
Silvex (2,4,5-TP)
See F027
93-76-5
2,4,5-T
See F027
58-90-2
2,3,4,6-Tetrachlorophenol
See F027
95-95-4
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
See F027
88-06-2
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
1
CAS Number given for parent compound only.
[45 FR 78529, 78541, Nov. 25, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 261.33, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 261.35
Deletion of certain hazardous waste codes following equipment cleaning and replacement.
(a) Wastes from wood preserving processes at plants that do not resume or initiate use of chlorophenolic preservatives will not meet the listing definition of F032 once the generator has met all of the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. These wastes may, however, continue to meet another hazardous waste listing description or may exhibit one or more of the hazardous waste characteristics.
(b) Generators must either clean or replace all process equipment that may have come into contact with chlorophenolic formulations or constituents thereof, including, but not limited to, treatment cylinders, sumps, tanks, piping systems, drip pads, fork lifts, and trams, in a manner that minimizes or eliminates the escape of hazardous waste or constituents, leachate, contaminated drippage, or hazardous waste decomposition products to the ground water, surface water, or atmosphere.
(1) Generators shall do one of the following:
(i) Prepare and follow an equipment cleaning plan and clean equipment in accordance with this section;
(ii) Prepare and follow an equipment replacement plan and replace equipment in accordance with this section; or
(iii) Document cleaning and replacement in accordance with this section, carried out after termination of use of chlorophenolic preservations.
(2) Cleaning Requirements.
(i) Prepare and sign a written equipment cleaning plan that describes:
(A) The equipment to be cleaned;
(B) How the equipment will be cleaned;
(C) The solvent to be used in cleaning;
(D) How solvent rinses will be tested; and
(E) How cleaning residues will be disposed.
(ii) Equipment must be cleaned as follows:
(A) Remove all visible residues from process equipment;
(B) Rinse process equipment with an appropriate solvent until dioxins and dibenzofurans are not detected in the final solvent rinse.
(iii) Analytical requirements.
(A) Rinses must be tested by using an appropriate method.
(B) “Not detected” means at or below the following lower method calibration limits (MCLs): The 2,3,7,8-TCDD-based MCL—0.01 parts per trillion (ppt), sample weight of 1000 g, IS spiking level of 1 ppt, final extraction volume of 10-50 μL. For other congeners—multiply the values by 1 for TCDF/PeCDD/PeCDF, by 2.5 for HxCDD/HxCDF/HpCDD/HpCDF, and by 5 for OCDD/OCDF.
(iv) The generator must manage all residues from the cleaning process as F032 waste.
(3) Replacement requirements.
(i) Prepare and sign a written equipment replacement plan that describes:
(A) The equipment to be replaced;
(B) How the equipment will be replaced; and
(C) How the equipment will be disposed.
(ii) The generator must manage the discarded equipment as F032 waste.
(4) Documentation requirements.
(i) Document that previous equipment cleaning and/or replacement was performed in accordance with this section and occurred after cessation of use of chlorophenolic preservatives.
(c) The generator must maintain the following records documenting the cleaning and replacement as part of the facility's operating record:
(1) The name and address of the facility;
(2) Formulations previously used and the date on which their use ceased in each process at the plant;
(3) Formulations currently used in each process at the plant;
(4) The equipment cleaning or replacement plan;
(5) The name and address of any persons who conducted the cleaning and replacement;
(6) The dates on which cleaning and replacement were accomplished;
(7) The dates of sampling and testing;
(8) A description of the sample handling and preparation techniques, including techniques used for extraction, containerization, preservation, and chain-of-custody of the samples;
(9) A description of the tests performed, the date the tests were performed, and the results of the tests;
(10) The name and model numbers of the instrument(s) used in performing the tests;
(11) QA/QC documentation; and
(12) The following statement signed by the generator or his authorized representative:
I certify under penalty of law that all process equipment required to be cleaned or replaced under 40 CFR 261.35 was cleaned or replaced as represented in the equipment cleaning and replacement plan and accompanying documentation. I am aware that there are significant penalties for providing false information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment.
[55 FR 50482, Dec. 6, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 30195, July 1, 1991; 70 FR 34561, June 14, 2005]

# Subpart E—Exclusions/Exemptions

# Source:
71 FR 42948, July 28, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.38
[Reserved]
§ 261.39
Conditional Exclusion for Used, Broken Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) and Processed CRT Glass Undergoing Recycling.
Used, broken CRTs are not solid wastes if they meet the following conditions:
(a)
Prior to processing:
These materials are not solid wastes if they are destined for recycling and if they meet the following requirements:
(1)
Storage.
The broken CRTs must be either:
(i) Stored in a building with a roof, floor, and walls, or
(ii) Placed in a container (
i.e.
, a package or a vehicle) that is constructed, filled, and closed to minimize releases to the environment of CRT glass (including fine solid materials).
(2)
Labeling.
Each container in which the used, broken CRT is contained must be labeled or marked clearly with one of the following phrases: “Used cathode ray tube(s)-contains leaded glass ” or “Leaded glass from televisions or computers.” It must also be labeled: “Do not mix with other glass materials.”
(3)
Transportation.
The used, broken CRTs must be transported in a container meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (2) of this section.
(4)
Speculative accumulation and use constituting disposal.
The used, broken CRTs are subject to the limitations on speculative accumulation as defined in paragraph (c)(8) of this section. If they are used in a manner constituting disposal, they must comply with the applicable requirements of part 266, subpart C instead of the requirements of this section.
(5)
Exports.
In addition to the applicable conditions specified in paragraphs
(a)(1)-(4) of this section, exporters of used, broken CRTs must comply with the following requirements:
(i) Notify EPA of an intended export before the CRTs are scheduled to leave the United States. A complete notification should be submitted sixty (60) days before the initial shipment is intended to be shipped off-site. This notification may cover export activities extending over a twelve (12) month or lesser period. The notification must be in writing, signed by the exporter, and include the following information:
(A) Name, site address, telephone number and EPA ID number (if applicable) of the exporter of the CRTs.
(B) The estimated frequency or rate at which the CRTs are to be exported and the period of time over which they are to be exported.
(C) The estimated total quantity of CRTs specified in kilograms.
(D) All points of entry to and departure from each foreign country through which the CRTs will pass.
(E) A description of the means by which each shipment of the CRTs will be transported (
e.g.
, mode of transportation vehicle (air, highway, rail, water, etc.), type(s) of container (drums, boxes, tanks, etc.)).
(F) The name and site address of the recycler or recyclers and the estimated quantity of used CRTs to be sent to each facility, as well as the names of any alternate recyclers.
(G) A description of the manner in which the CRTs will be recycled in the foreign country that will be receiving the CRTs.
(H) The name of any transit country through which the CRTs will be sent and a description of the approximate length of time the CRTs will remain in such country and the nature of their handling while there.
(ii) Notifications must be submitted electronically using EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system.
(iii) Upon request by EPA, the exporter shall furnish to EPA any additional information which a receiving country requests in order to respond to a notification.
(iv) EPA will provide a complete notification to the receiving country and any transit countries. A notification is complete when EPA receives a notification which EPA determines satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section.
(v) The export of CRTs is prohibited unless all of the following occur:
(A) The receiving country consents to the intended export. When the receiving country consents in writing to the receipt of the CRTs, EPA will forward an Acknowledgment of Consent to Export CRTs to the exporter. Where the receiving country objects to receipt of the CRTs or withdraws a prior consent, EPA will notify the exporter in writing. EPA will also notify the exporter of any responses from transit countries.
(B) The exporter or a U.S. authorized agent must:
(
1
) Submit Electronic Export Information (EEI) for each shipment to the Automated Export System (AES) or its successor system, under the International Trade Data System (ITDS) platform, in accordance with 15 CFR 30.4(b).
(
2
) Include the following items in the EEI, along with the other information required under 15 CFR 30.6:
(
i
) EPA license code;
(
ii
) Commodity classification code per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(12);
(
iii
) EPA consent number;
(
iv
) Country of ultimate destination per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(5);
(
v
) Date of export per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(2);
(
vi
) Quantity of waste in shipment and units for reported quantity, if required reporting units established by value for the reported commodity classification number are in units of weight or volume per 15 CFR 30.6(a)(15); or
(
vii
) EPA net quantity reported in units of kilograms, if required reporting units established by value for the reported commodity classification number are not in units of weight or volume.
(vi) When the conditions specified on the original notification change, the exporter must provide EPA with a written renotification of the change using the allowable methods listed in
paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, except for changes to the telephone number in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section and decreases in the quantity indicated pursuant to paragraph (a)(5)(i)(C) of this section. The shipment cannot take place until consent of the receiving country to the changes has been obtained (except for changes to information about points of entry and departure and transit countries pursuant to paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(D) and (H) of this section) and the exporter of CRTs receives from EPA a copy of the Acknowledgment of Consent to Export CRTs reflecting the receiving country's consent to the changes.
(vii) A copy of the Acknowledgment of Consent to Export CRTs must accompany the shipment of CRTs. The shipment must conform to the terms of the Acknowledgment.
(viii) If a shipment of CRTs cannot be delivered for any reason to the recycler or the alternate recycler, the exporter of CRTs must renotify EPA of a change in the conditions of the original notification to allow shipment to a new recycler in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(vi) of this section and obtain another Acknowledgment of Consent to Export CRTs.
(ix) Exporters must keep copies of notifications and Acknowledgments of Consent to Export CRTs for a period of three years following receipt of the Acknowledgment. Exporters may satisfy this recordkeeping requirement by retaining electronically submitted notifications or electronically generated Acknowledgements in the CRT exporter's account on EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system, provided that such copies are readily available for viewing and production if requested by any EPA or authorized state inspector. No CRT exporter may be held liable for the inability to produce a notification or Acknowledgement for inspection under this section if the CRT exporter can demonstrate that the inability to produce such copies are due exclusively to technical difficulty with EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system for which the CRT exporter bears no responsibility.
(x) CRT exporters must file with EPA no later than March 1 of each year, an annual report summarizing the quantities (in kilograms), frequency of shipment, and ultimate destination(s) (
i.e.,
the facility or facilities where the recycling occurs) of all used CRTs exported during the previous calendar year. Such reports must also include the following:
(A) The name, EPA ID number (if applicable), and mailing and site address of the exporter;
(B) The calendar year covered by the report;
(C) A certification signed by the CRT exporter that states:
“I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this and all attached documents and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining this information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”
(xi) Annual reports must be submitted to the EPA using the allowable methods specified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section. Exporters must keep copies of each annual report for a period of at least three years from the due date of the report. Exporters may satisfy this recordkeeping requirement by retaining electronically submitted annual reports in the CRT exporter's account on the EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system, provided that a copy is readily available for viewing and production if requested by any the EPA or authorized State inspector. No CRT exporter may be held liable for the inability to produce an annual report for inspection under this section if the CRT exporter can demonstrate that the inability to produce the annual report is due exclusively to technical difficulty with the EPA's Waste Import Export Tracking System (WIETS), or its successor system for which the CRT exporter bears no responsibility.
(b)
Requirements for used CRT processing:
Used, broken CRTs undergoing
CRT processing as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter are not solid wastes if they meet the following requirements:
(1)
Storage.
Used, broken CRTs undergoing processing are subject to the requirement of paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2)
Processing.
(i) All activities specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) of the definition of “CRT processing” in § 260.10 of this chapter must be performed within a building with a roof, floor, and walls; and
(ii) No activities may be performed that use temperatures high enough to volatilize lead from CRTs.
(c)
Processed CRT glass sent to CRT glass making or lead smelting:
Glass from used CRTs that is destined for recycling at a CRT glass manufacturer or a lead smelter after processing is not a solid waste unless it is speculatively accumulated as defined in § 261.1(c)(8).
(d)
Use constituting disposal:
Glass from used CRTs that is used in a manner constituting disposal must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart C instead of the requirements of this section.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 79 FR 36231, June 26, 2014; 81 FR 85714, Nov. 28, 2016; 82 FR 60900, Dec. 26, 2017; 83 FR 38263, Aug. 6, 2018; 89 FR 60725, July 26, 2024]
§ 261.40
Conditional Exclusion for Used, Intact Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) Exported for Recycling.
Used, intact CRTs exported for recycling are not solid wastes if they meet the notice and consent conditions of § 261.39(a)(5), and if they are not speculatively accumulated as defined in § 261.1(c)(8).
§ 261.41
Notification and Recordkeeping for Used, Intact Cathode Ray Tubes (CRTs) Exported for Reuse.
(a) CRT exporters who export used, intact CRTs for reuse must send a notification to EPA. This notification may cover export activities extending over a twelve (12) month or lesser period.
(1) The notification must be in writing, signed by the exporter, and include the following information:
(i) Name, mailing address, telephone number, and EPA ID number (if applicable) of the exporter of the used, intact CRTs;
(ii) The estimated frequency or rate at which the used, intact CRTs are to be exported for reuse and the period of time over which they are to be exported;
(iii) The estimated total quantity of used, intact CRTs specified in kilograms;
(iv) All points of entry to and departure from each transit country through which the used, intact CRTs will pass, a description of the approximate length of time the used, intact CRTs will remain in such country, and the nature of their handling while there;
(v) A description of the means by which each shipment of the used, intact CRTs will be transported (e.g., mode of transportation vehicle (air, highway, rail, water, etc.), type(s) of container (drums, boxes, tanks, etc.));
(vi) The name and address of the ultimate destination facility or facilities where the used, intact CRTs will be reused, refurbished, distributed, or sold for reuse and the estimated quantity of used, intact CRTs to be sent to each facility, as well as the name of any alternate destination facility or facilities;
(vii) A description of the manner in which the used, intact CRTs will be reused (including reuse after refurbishment) in the foreign country that will be receiving the used, intact CRTs; and
(viii) A certification signed by the CRT exporter that states:
“I certify under penalty of law that the CRTs described in this notice are intact and fully functioning or capable of being functional after refurbishment and that the used CRTs will be reused or refurbished and reused. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this and all attached documents and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”
(2) Notifications submitted by mail should be sent to the following mailing address: Office of Land and Emergency
Management, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, Materials Recovery and Waste Management Division, International Branch (Mail Code 2255A), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460. Hand-delivered notifications should be sent to: Office of Land and Emergency Management, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, Materials Recovery and Waste Management Division, International Branch (Mail Code 2255A), Environmental Protection Agency, William Jefferson Clinton South Building, Room 6144, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004. In both cases, the following shall be prominently displayed on the front of the envelope: “Attention: Notification of Intent to Export CRTs.”
(b) CRT exporters of used, intact CRTs sent for reuse must keep copies of normal business records, such as contracts, demonstrating that each shipment of exported used, intact CRTs will be reused. This documentation must be retained for a period of at least three years from the date the CRTs were exported. If the documents are written in a language other than English, CRT exporters of used, intact CRTs sent for reuse must provide both the original, non-English version of the normal business records as well as a third-party translation of the normal business records into English within 30 days upon request by EPA.
[79 FR 36231, June 26, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 38263, Aug. 6, 2018]
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Financial Requirements for Management of Excluded Hazardous Secondary Materials

# Source:
73 FR 64764, Oct. 30, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.140
Applicability.
(a) The requirements of this subpart apply to owners or operators of reclamation and intermediate facilities managing hazardous secondary materials excluded under 40 CFR § 261.4(a)(24), except as provided otherwise in this section.
(b) States and the Federal government are exempt from the financial assurance requirements of this subpart.
§ 261.141
Definitions of terms as used in this subpart.
The terms defined in § 265.141(d), (f), (g), and (h) of this chapter have the same meaning in this subpart as they do in § 265.141 of this chapter.
§ 261.142
Cost estimate.
(a) The owner or operator must have a detailed written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of disposing of any hazardous secondary material as listed or characteristic hazardous waste, and the potential cost of closing the facility as a treatment, storage, and disposal facility.
(1) The estimate must equal the cost of conducting the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section at the point when the extent and manner of the facility's operation would make these activities the most expensive; and
(2) The cost estimate must be based on the costs to the owner or operator of hiring a third party to conduct these activities. A third party is a party who is neither a parent nor a subsidiary of the owner or operator. (See definition of “parent corporation” in § 265.141(d) of this subchapter.) The owner or operator may use costs for on-site disposal in accordance with applicable requirements if he can demonstrate that on-site disposal capacity will exist at all times over the life of the facility.
(3) The cost estimate may not incorporate any salvage value that may be realized with the sale of hazardous secondary materials, or hazardous or non-hazardous wastes if applicable under § 265.113(d) of this subchapter, facility structures or equipment, land, or other assets associated with the facility.
(4) The owner or operator may not incorporate a zero cost for hazardous secondary materials, or hazardous or non-hazardous wastes if applicable under § 265.113(d) of this subchapter that might have economic value.
(b) During the active life of the facility, the owner or operator must adjust the cost estimate for inflation within
60 days prior to the anniversary date of the establishment of the financial instrument(s) used to comply with § 261.143. For owners and operators using the financial test or corporate guarantee, the cost estimate must be updated for inflation within 30 days after the close of the firm's fiscal year and before submission of updated information to the Regional Administrator as specified in § 261.143(e)(3). The adjustment may be made by recalculating the cost estimate in current dollars, or by using an inflation factor derived from the most recent Implicit Price Deflator for Gross National Product published by the U.S. Department of Commerce in its Survey of Current Business, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. The inflation factor is the result of dividing the latest published annual Deflator by the Deflator for the previous year.
(1) The first adjustment is made by multiplying the cost estimate by the inflation factor. The result is the adjusted cost estimate.
(2) Subsequent adjustments are made by multiplying the latest adjusted cost estimate by the latest inflation factor.
(c) During the active life of the facility, the owner or operator must revise the cost estimate no later than 30 days after a change in a facility's operating plan or design that would increase the costs of conducting the activities described in paragraph (a) or no later than 60 days after an unexpected event which increases the cost of conducting the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section. The revised cost estimate must be adjusted for inflation as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The owner or operator must keep the following at the facility during the operating life of the facility: The latest cost estimate prepared in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (c) and, when this estimate has been adjusted in accordance with paragraph (b), the latest adjusted cost estimate.
[73 FR 64764, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 54100, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.143
Financial assurance condition.
Per § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) of this chapter, an owner or operator of a reclamation or intermediate facility must have financial assurance as a condition of the exclusion as required under § 261.4(a)(24) of this chapter. He must choose from the options as specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a)
Trust fund.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing a trust fund which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting an originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement to the Regional Administrator. The trustee must be an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(2) The wording of the trust agreement must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(a)(1), and the trust agreement must be accompanied by a formal certification of acknowledgment (for example, see § 261.151(a)(2)). Schedule A of the trust agreement must be updated within 60 days after a change in the amount of the current cost estimate covered by the agreement.
(3) The trust fund must be funded for the full amount of the current cost estimate before it may be relied upon to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(4) Whenever the current cost estimate changes, the owner or operator must compare the new estimate with the trustee's most recent annual valuation of the trust fund. If the value of the fund is less than the amount of the new estimate, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the change in the cost estimate, must either deposit an amount into the fund so that its value after this deposit at least equals the amount of the current cost estimate, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the difference.
(5) If the value of the trust fund is greater than the total amount of the current cost estimate, the owner or operator may submit a written request to the Regional Administrator for release of the amount in excess of the current cost estimate.
(6) If an owner or operator substitutes other financial assurance as
specified in this section for all or part of the trust fund, he may submit a written request to the Regional Administrator for release of the amount in excess of the current cost estimate covered by the trust fund.
(7) Within 60 days after receiving a request from the owner or operator for release of funds as specified in paragraph (a)(5) or (6) of this section, the Regional Administrator will instruct the trustee to release to the owner or operator such funds as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing. If the owner or operator begins final closure under subpart G of 40 CFR part 264 or 265, an owner or operator may request reimbursements for partial or final closure expenditures by submitting itemized bills to the Regional Administrator. The owner or operator may request reimbursements for partial closure only if sufficient funds are remaining in the trust fund to cover the maximum costs of closing the facility over its remaining operating life. No later than 60 days after receiving bills for partial or final closure activities, the Regional Administrator will instruct the trustee to make reimbursements in those amounts as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing, if the Regional Administrator determines that the partial or final closure expenditures are in accordance with the approved closure plan, or otherwise justified. If the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that the maximum cost of closure over the remaining life of the facility will be significantly greater than the value of the trust fund, he may withhold reimbursements of such amounts as he deems prudent until he determines, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section that the owner or operator is no longer required to maintain financial assurance for final closure of the facility. If the Regional Administrator does not instruct the trustee to make such reimbursements, he will provide to the owner or operator a detailed written statement of reasons.
(8) The Regional Administrator will agree to termination of the trust when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(b)
Surety bond guaranteeing payment into a trust fund.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the bond to the Regional Administrator. The surety company issuing the bond must, at a minimum, be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(2) The wording of the surety bond must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(b).
(3) The owner or operator who uses a surety bond to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the bond, all payments made thereunder will be deposited by the surety directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. This standby trust fund must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, except that:
(i) An originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the surety bond; and
(ii) Until the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these regulations:
(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement (see § 261.151(a)) to show current cost estimates;
(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and
(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.
(4) The bond must guarantee that the owner or operator will:
(i) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum of the bond before loss of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24) of this chapter or
(ii) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum within 15 days after an administrative order to begin closure issued by the Regional
Administrator becomes final, or within 15 days after an order to begin closure is issued by a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or
(iii) Provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, and obtain the Regional Administrator's written approval of the assurance provided, within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the bond from the surety.
(5) Under the terms of the bond, the surety will become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond.
(6) The penal sum of the bond must be in an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(7) Whenever the current cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the penal sum, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the penal sum to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current cost estimate decreases, the penal sum may be reduced to the amount of the current cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(8) Under the terms of the bond, the surety may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the Regional Administrator. Cancellation may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(9) The owner or operator may cancel the bond if the Regional Administrator has given prior written consent based on his receipt of evidence of alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.
(c)
Letter of credit.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining an irrevocable standby letter of credit which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the letter to the Regional Administrator. The issuing institution must be an entity which has the authority to issue letters of credit and whose letter-of-credit operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(2) The wording of the letter of credit must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(c).
(3) An owner or operator who uses a letter of credit to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the letter of credit, all amounts paid pursuant to a draft by the Regional Administrator will be deposited by the issuing institution directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. This standby trust fund must meet the requirements of the trust fund specified in paragraph (a) of this section, except that:
(i) An originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the letter of credit; and
(ii) Unless the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these regulations:
(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement (see § 261.151(a)) to show current cost estimates;
(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and
(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.
(4) The letter of credit must be accompanied by a letter from the owner or operator referring to the letter of credit by number, issuing institution, and date, and providing the following information: The EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address of the facility, and the amount of funds assured for the facility by the letter of credit.
(5) The letter of credit must be irrevocable and issued for a period of at least 1 year. The letter of credit must provide that the expiration date will be automatically extended for a period of
at least 1 year unless, at least 120 days before the current expiration date, the issuing institution notifies both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator by certified mail of a decision not to extend the expiration date. Under the terms of the letter of credit, the 120 days will begin on the date when both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator have received the notice, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(6) The letter of credit must be issued in an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(7) Whenever the current cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the amount of the credit, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the amount of the credit to be increased so that it at least equals the current cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current cost estimate decreases, the amount of the credit may be reduced to the amount of the current cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(8) Following a determination by the Regional Administrator that the hazardous secondary materials do not meet the conditions of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24), the Regional Administrator may draw on the letter of credit.
(9) If the owner or operator does not establish alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain written approval of such alternate assurance from the Regional Administrator within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice from the issuing institution that it has decided not to extend the letter of credit beyond the current expiration date, the Regional Administrator will draw on the letter of credit. The Regional Administrator may delay the drawing if the issuing institution grants an extension of the term of the credit. During the last 30 days of any such extension the Regional Administrator will draw on the letter of credit if the owner or operator has failed to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain written approval of such assurance from the Regional Administrator.
(10) The Regional Administrator will return the letter of credit to the issuing institution for termination when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(d)
Insurance.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining insurance which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting a certificate of such insurance to the Regional Administrator At a minimum, the insurer must be licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
(2) The wording of the certificate of insurance must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(d).
(3) The insurance policy must be issued for a face amount at least equal to the current cost estimate, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. The term “face amount” means the total amount the insurer is obligated to pay under the policy. Actual payments by the insurer will not change the face amount, although the insurer's future liability will be lowered by the amount of the payments.
(4) The insurance policy must guarantee that funds will be available whenever needed to pay the cost of removal of all hazardous secondary materials from the unit, to pay the cost of decontamination of the unit, to pay the costs of the performance of activities required under subpart G of 40 CFR parts 264 or 265, as applicable, for the facilities covered by this policy. The policy must also guarantee that once funds are needed, the insurer will be responsible for paying out funds, up to an amount equal to the face amount of the policy, upon the direction of the Regional Administrator, to such party
or parties as the Regional Administrator specifies.
(5) After beginning partial or final closure under 40 CFR parts 264 or 265, as applicable, an owner or operator or any other authorized person may request reimbursements for closure expenditures by submitting itemized bills to the Regional Administrator. The owner or operator may request reimbursements only if the remaining value of the policy is sufficient to cover the maximum costs of closing the facility over its remaining operating life. Within 60 days after receiving bills for closure activities, the Regional Administrator will instruct the insurer to make reimbursements in such amounts as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing if the Regional Administrator determines that the expenditures are in accordance with the approved plan or otherwise justified. If the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that the maximum cost over the remaining life of the facility will be significantly greater than the face amount of the policy, he may withhold reimbursement of such amounts as he deems prudent until he determines, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, that the owner or operator is no longer required to maintain financial assurance for the particular facility. If the Regional Administrator does not instruct the insurer to make such reimbursements, he will provide to the owner or operator a detailed written statement of reasons.
(6) The owner or operator must maintain the policy in full force and effect until the Regional Administrator consents to termination of the policy by the owner or operator as specified in paragraph (i)(10) of this section. Failure to pay the premium, without substitution of alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, will constitute a significant violation of these regulations warranting such remedy as the Regional Administrator deems necessary. Such violation will be deemed to begin upon receipt by the Regional Administrator of a notice of future cancellation, termination, or failure to renew due to nonpayment of the premium, rather than upon the date of expiration.
(7) Each policy must contain a provision allowing assignment of the policy to a successor owner or operator. Such assignment may be conditional upon consent of the insurer, provided such consent is not unreasonably refused.
(8) The policy must provide that the insurer may not cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the policy except for failure to pay the premium. The automatic renewal of the policy must, at a minimum, provide the insured with the option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring policy. If there is a failure to pay the premium, the insurer may elect to cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the policy by sending notice by certified mail to the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator. Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning with the date of receipt of the notice by both the Regional Administrator and the owner or operator, as evidenced by the return receipts. Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur and the policy will remain in full force and effect in the event that on or before the date of expiration:
(i) The Regional Administrator deems the facility abandoned; or
(ii) Conditional exclusion or interim status is lost, terminated, or revoked; or
(iii) Closure is ordered by the Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or
(iv) The owner or operator is named as debtor in a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code; or
(v) The premium due is paid.
(9) Whenever the current cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the face amount of the policy, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the face amount to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current cost estimate decreases, the face amount may be reduced to the amount of the current cost estimate following
written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(10) The Regional Administrator will give written consent to the owner or operator that he may terminate the insurance policy when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(e)
Financial test and corporate guarantee.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by demonstrating that he passes a financial test as specified in this paragraph. To pass this test the owner or operator must meet the criteria of either paragraph (e)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section:
(i) The owner or operator must have:
(A) Two of the following three ratios: A ratio of total liabilities to net worth less than 2.0; a ratio of the sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization to total liabilities greater than 0.1; and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities greater than 1.5; and
(B) Net working capital and tangible net worth each at least six times the sum of the current cost estimates and the current plugging and abandonment cost estimates; and
(C) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(D) Assets located in the United States amounting to at least 90 percent of total assets or at least six times the sum of the current cost estimates and the current plugging and abandonment cost estimates.
(ii) The owner or operator must have:
(A) A current rating for his most recent bond issuance of AAA, AA, A, or BBB as issued by Standard and Poor's or Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa as issued by Moody's; and
(B) Tangible net worth at least six times the sum of the current cost estimates and the current plugging and abandonment cost estimates; and
(C) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(D) Assets located in the United States amounting to at least 90 percent of total assets or at least six times the sum of the current cost estimates and the current plugging and abandonment cost estimates.
(2) The phrase “current cost estimates” as used in paragraph (e)(1) of this section refers to the cost estimates required to be shown in paragraphs 1-4 of the letter from the owner's or operator's chief financial officer (§ 261.151(e)). The phrase “current plugging and abandonment cost estimates” as used in paragraph (e)(1) of this section refers to the cost estimates required to be shown in paragraphs 1-4 of the letter from the owner's or operator's chief financial officer (§ 144.70(f) of this chapter).
(3) To demonstrate that he meets this test, the owner or operator must submit the following items to the Regional Administrator:
(i) A letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer and worded as specified in § 261.151(e); and
(ii) A copy of the independent certified public accountant's report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year; and
(iii) If the chief financial officer's letter providing evidence of financial assurance includes financial data showing that the owner or operator satisfies paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section that are different from the data in the audited financial statements referred to in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)of this section or any other audited financial statement or data filed with the SEC, then a special report from the owner's or operator's independent certified public accountant to the owner or operator is required. The special report shall be based upon an agreed upon procedures engagement in accordance with professional auditing standards and shall describe the procedures performed in comparing the data in the chief financial officer's letter derived from the independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest fiscal year with the amounts in such financial statements, the findings of the comparison, and the reasons for any differences.
(4) The owner or operator may obtain an extension of the time allowed for submission of the documents specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section if the
fiscal year of the owner or operator ends during the 90 days prior to the effective date of these regulations and if the year-end financial statements for that fiscal year will be audited by an independent certified public accountant. The extension will end no later than 90 days after the end of the owner's or operator's fiscal year. To obtain the extension, the owner's or operator's chief financial officer must send, by the effective date of these regulations, a letter to the Regional Administrator of each Region in which the owner's or operator's facilities to be covered by the financial test are located. This letter from the chief financial officer must:
(i) Request the extension;
(ii) Certify that he has grounds to believe that the owner or operator meets the criteria of the financial test;
(iii) Specify for each facility to be covered by the test the EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, address, and current cost estimates to be covered by the test;
(iv) Specify the date ending the owner's or operator's last complete fiscal year before the effective date of these regulations in this subpart;
(v) Specify the date, no later than 90 days after the end of such fiscal year, when he will submit the documents specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(vi) Certify that the year-end financial statements of the owner or operator for such fiscal year will be audited by an independent certified public accountant.
(5) After the initial submission of items specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must send updated information to the Regional Administrator within 90 days after the close of each succeeding fiscal year. This information must consist of all three items specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(6) If the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, he must send notice to the Regional Administrator of intent to establish alternate financial assurance as specified in this section. The notice must be sent by certified mail within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year for which the year-end financial data show that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements. The owner or operator must provide the alternate financial assurance within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year.
(7) The Regional Administrator may, based on a reasonable belief that the owner or operator may no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, require reports of financial condition at any time from the owner or operator in addition to those specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If the Regional Administrator finds, on the basis of such reports or other information, that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section within 30 days after notification of such a finding.
(8) The Regional Administrator may disallow use of this test on the basis of qualifications in the opinion expressed by the independent certified public accountant in his report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements (see paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section). An adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion will be cause for disallowance. The Regional Administrator will evaluate other qualifications on an individual basis. The owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section within 30 days after notification of the disallowance.
(9) The owner or operator is no longer required to submit the items specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(10) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a written guarantee. The guarantor must be the direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator, a firm whose parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, or a firm with a “substantial business relationship”
with the owner or operator. The guarantor must meet the requirements for owners or operators in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section and must comply with the terms of the guarantee. The wording of the guarantee must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(g)(1). A certified copy of the guarantee must accompany the items sent to the Regional Administrator as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. One of these items must be the letter from the guarantor's chief financial officer. If the guarantor's parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, the letter must describe the value received in consideration of the guarantee. If the guarantor is a firm with a “substantial business relationship” with the owner or operator, this letter must describe this “substantial business relationship” and the value received in consideration of the guarantee. The terms of the guarantee must provide that:
(i) Following a determination by the Regional Administrator that the hazardous secondary materials at the owner or operator's facility covered by this guarantee do not meet the conditions of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24) of this chapter, the guarantor will dispose of any hazardous secondary material as hazardous waste and close the facility in accordance with closure requirements found in parts 264 or 265 of this chapter, as applicable, or establish a trust fund as specified in paragraph (a) of this section in the name of the owner or operator in the amount of the current cost estimate.
(ii) The corporate guarantee will remain in force unless the guarantor sends notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the Regional Administrator. Cancellation may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(iii) If the owner or operator fails to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain the written approval of such alternate assurance from the Regional Administrator within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the corporate guarantee from the guarantor, the guarantor will provide such alternate financial assurance in the name of the owner or operator.
(f)
Use of multiple financial mechanisms.
An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing more than one financial mechanism per facility. These mechanisms are limited to trust funds, surety bonds, letters of credit, and insurance. The mechanisms must be as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, respectively, of this section, except that it is the combination of mechanisms, rather than the single mechanism, which must provide financial assurance for an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate. If an owner or operator uses a trust fund in combination with a surety bond or a letter of credit, he may use the trust fund as the standby trust fund for the other mechanisms. A single standby trust fund may be established for two or more mechanisms. The Regional Administrator may use any or all of the mechanisms to provide for the facility.
(g)
Use of a financial mechanism for multiple facilities.
An owner or operator may use a financial assurance mechanism specified in this section to meet the requirements of this section for more than one facility. Evidence of financial assurance submitted to the Regional Administrator must include a list showing, for each facility, the EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, address, and the amount of funds assured by the mechanism. If the facilities covered by the mechanism are in more than one Region, identical evidence of financial assurance must be submitted to and maintained with the Regional Administrators of all such Regions. The amount of funds available through the mechanism must be no less than the sum of funds that would be available if a separate mechanism had been established and maintained for each facility. In directing funds available through the mechanism for any of the facilities covered by the mechanism, the Regional Administrator may direct only the amount of
funds designated for that facility, unless the owner or operator agrees to the use of additional funds available under the mechanism.
(h)
Removal and Decontamination Plan for Release
(1) An owner or operator of a reclamation facility or an intermediate facility who wishes to be released from his financial assurance obligations under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) of this chapter must submit a plan for removing all hazardous secondary material residues to the Regional Administrator at least 180 days prior to the date on which he expects to cease to operate under the exclusion.
(2) The plan must include, at least:
(A) For each hazardous secondary materials storage unit subject to financial assurance requirements under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F), a description of how all excluded hazardous secondary materials will be recycled or sent for recycling, and how all residues, contaminated containment systems (liners, etc), contaminated soils, subsoils, structures, and equipment will be removed or decontaminated as necessary to protect human health and the environment, and
(B) A detailed description of the steps necessary to remove or decontaminate all hazardous secondary material residues and contaminated containment system components, equipment, structures, and soils including, but not limited to, procedures for cleaning equipment and removing contaminated soils, methods for sampling and testing surrounding soils, and criteria for determining the extent of decontamination necessary to protect human health and the environment; and
(C) A detailed description of any other activities necessary to protect human health and the environment during this timeframe, including, but not limited to, leachate collection, run-on and run-off control, etc; and
(D) A schedule for conducting the activities described which, at a minimum, includes the total time required to remove all excluded hazardous secondary materials for recycling and decontaminate all units subject to financial assurance under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) and the time required for intervening activities which will allow tracking of the progress of decontamination.
(3) The Regional Administrator will provide the owner or operator and the public, through a newspaper notice, the opportunity to submit written comments on the plan and request modifications to the plan no later than 30 days from the date of the notice. He will also, in response to a request or at his discretion, hold a public hearing whenever such a hearing might clarify one or more issues concerning the plan. The Regional Administrator will give public notice of the hearing at least 30 days before it occurs. (Public notice of the hearing may be given at the same time as notice of the opportunity for the public to submit written comments, and the two notices may be combined.) The Regional Administrator will approve, modify, or disapprove the plan within 90 days of its receipt. If the Regional Administrator does not approve the plan, he shall provide the owner or operator with a detailed written statement of reasons for the refusal and the owner or operator must modify the plan or submit a new plan for approval within 30 days after receiving such written statement. The Regional Administrator will approve or modify this plan in writing within 60 days. If the Regional Administrator modifies the plan, this modified plan becomes the approved plan. The Regional Administrator must assure that the approved plan is consistent with paragraph (h) of this section. A copy of the modified plan with a detailed statement of reasons for the modifications must be mailed to the owner or operator.
(4) Within 60 days of completion of the activities described for each hazardous secondary materials management unit, the owner or operator must submit to the Regional Administrator, by registered mail, a certification that all hazardous secondary materials have been removed from the unit and the unit has been decontaminated in accordance with the specifications in the approved plan. The certification must be signed by the owner or operator and by a qualified Professional Engineer. Documentation supporting the Professional Engineer's certification must be furnished to the Regional Administrator, upon request, until he releases
the owner or operator from the financial assurance requirements for § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F).
(i)
Release of the owner or operator from the requirements of this section.
Within 60 days after receiving certifications from the owner or operator and a qualified Professional Engineer that all hazardous secondary materials have been removed from the facility or a unit at the facility and the facility or a unit has been decontaminated in accordance with the approved plan per paragraph (h), the Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing that he is no longer required under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) to maintain financial assurance for that facility or a unit at the facility, unless the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that all hazardous secondary materials have not been removed from the facility or unit at a facility or that the facility or unit has not been decontaminated in accordance with the approved plan. The Regional Administrator shall provide the owner or operator a detailed written statement of any such reason to believe that all hazardous secondary materials have not been removed from the unit or that the unit has not been decontaminated in accordance with the approved plan.
[73 FR 64764, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 54101, Aug. 9, 2023]
§§ 261.144-261.146
[Reserved]
§ 261.147
Liability requirements.
(a)
Coverage for sudden accidental occurrences.
An owner or operator of a hazardous secondary material reclamation facility or an intermediate facility subject to financial assurance requirements under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) of this chapter, or a group of such facilities, must demonstrate financial responsibility for bodily injury and property damage to third parties caused by sudden accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities. The owner or operator must have and maintain liability coverage for sudden accidental occurrences in the amount of at least $1 million per occurrence with an annual aggregate of at least $2 million, exclusive of legal defense costs. This liability coverage may be demonstrated as specified in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) of this section:
(1) An owner or operator may demonstrate the required liability coverage by having liability insurance as specified in this paragraph.
(i) Each insurance policy must be amended by attachment of the Hazardous Secondary Material Facility Liability Endorsement, or evidenced by a Certificate of Liability Insurance. The wording of the endorsement must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(h). The wording of the certificate of insurance must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(i). The owner or operator must submit a signed duplicate original of the endorsement or the certificate of insurance to the Regional Administrator, or Regional Administrators if the facilities are located in more than one Region. If requested by a Regional Administrator, the owner or operator must provide a signed duplicate original of the insurance policy.
(ii) Each insurance policy must be issued by an insurer which, at a minimum, is licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
(2) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by passing a financial test or using the guarantee for liability coverage as specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
(3) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a letter of credit for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(4) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (i) of this section.
(5) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a trust fund for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(6) An owner or operator may demonstrate the required liability coverage through the use of combinations of insurance, financial test, guarantee, letter of credit, surety bond, and trust fund, except that the owner or operator
may not combine a financial test covering part of the liability coverage requirement with a guarantee unless the financial statement of the owner or operator is not consolidated with the financial statement of the guarantor. The amounts of coverage demonstrated must total at least the minimum amounts required by this section. If the owner or operator demonstrates the required coverage through the use of a combination of financial assurances under this paragraph, the owner or operator shall specify at least one such assurance as “primary” coverage and shall specify other assurance as “excess” coverage.
(7) An owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator in writing within 30 days whenever:
(i) A claim results in a reduction in the amount of financial assurance for liability coverage provided by a financial instrument authorized in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section; or
(ii) A Certification of Valid Claim for bodily injury or property damages caused by a sudden or non-sudden accidental occurrence arising from the operation of a hazardous secondary material reclamation facility or intermediate facility is entered between the owner or operator and third-party claimant for liability coverage under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section; or
(iii) A final court order establishing a judgment for bodily injury or property damage caused by a sudden or non-sudden accidental occurrence arising from the operation of a hazardous secondary material reclamation facility or intermediate facility is issued against the owner or operator or an instrument that is providing financial assurance for liability coverage under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.
(b) Coverage for nonsudden accidental occurrences. An owner or operator of a hazardous secondary material reclamation facility or intermediate facility with land-based units, as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter, which are used to manage hazardous secondary materials excluded under § 261.4(a)(24) of this chapter or a group of such facilities, must demonstrate financial responsibility for bodily injury and property damage to third parties caused by nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities. The owner or operator must have and maintain liability coverage for nonsudden accidental occurrences in the amount of at least $3 million per occurrence with an annual aggregate of at least $6 million, exclusive of legal defense costs. An owner or operator who must meet the requirements of this section may combine the required per-occurrence coverage levels for sudden and nonsudden accidental occurrences into a single per-occurrence level, and combine the required annual aggregate coverage levels for sudden and nonsudden accidental occurrences into a single annual aggregate level. Owners or operators who combine coverage levels for sudden and nonsudden accidental occurrences must maintain liability coverage in the amount of at least $4 million per occurrence and $8 million annual aggregate. This liability coverage may be demonstrated as specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) of this section:
(1) An owner or operator may demonstrate the required liability coverage by having liability insurance as specified in this paragraph.
(i) Each insurance policy must be amended by attachment of the Hazardous Secondary Material Facility Liability Endorsement or evidenced by a Certificate of Liability Insurance. The wording of the endorsement must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(h). The wording of the certificate of insurance must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(i). The owner or operator must submit a signed duplicate original of the endorsement or the certificate of insurance to the Regional Administrator, or Regional Administrators if the facilities are located in more than one Region. If requested by a Regional Administrator, the owner or operator must provide a signed duplicate original of the insurance policy.
(ii) Each insurance policy must be issued by an insurer which, at a minimum, is licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
(2) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by passing a financial test or using the guarantee for liability coverage as specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
(3) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a letter of credit for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(4) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (i) of this section.
(5) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a trust fund for liability coverage as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.
(6) An owner or operator may demonstrate the required liability coverage through the use of combinations of insurance, financial test, guarantee, letter of credit, surety bond, and trust fund, except that the owner or operator may not combine a financial test covering part of the liability coverage requirement with a guarantee unless the financial statement of the owner or operator is not consolidated with the financial statement of the guarantor. The amounts of coverage demonstrated must total at least the minimum amounts required by this section. If the owner or operator demonstrates the required coverage through the use of a combination of financial assurances under this paragraph, the owner or operator shall specify at least one such assurance as “primary” coverage and shall specify other assurance as “excess” coverage.
(7) An owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator in writing within 30 days whenever:
(i) A claim results in a reduction in the amount of financial assurance for liability coverage provided by a financial instrument authorized in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section; or
(ii) A Certification of Valid Claim for bodily injury or property damages caused by a sudden or non-sudden accidental occurrence arising from the operation of a hazardous secondary material treatment and/or storage facility is entered between the owner or operator and third-party claimant for liability coverage under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section; or
(iii) A final court order establishing a judgment for bodily injury or property damage caused by a sudden or non-sudden accidental occurrence arising from the operation of a hazardous secondary material treatment and/or storage facility is issued against the owner or operator or an instrument that is providing financial assurance for liability coverage under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.
(c)
Request for variance.
If an owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that the levels of financial responsibility required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not consistent with the degree and duration of risk associated with treatment and/or storage at the facility or group of facilities, the owner or operator may obtain a variance from the Regional Administrator. The request for a variance must be submitted in writing to the Regional Administrator. If granted, the variance will take the form of an adjusted level of required liability coverage, such level to be based on the Regional Administrator's assessment of the degree and duration of risk associated with the ownership or operation of the facility or group of facilities. The Regional Administrator may require an owner or operator who requests a variance to provide such technical and engineering information as is deemed necessary by the Regional Administrator to determine a level of financial responsibility other than that required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d)
Adjustments by the Regional Administrator.
If the Regional Administrator determines that the levels of financial responsibility required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are not consistent with the degree and duration of risk associated with treatment and/or storage at the facility or group of facilities, the Regional Administrator may adjust the level of financial responsibility required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section as may be necessary to protect human health and the environment. This adjusted level will
be based on the Regional Administrator's assessment of the degree and duration of risk associated with the ownership or operation of the facility or group of facilities. In addition, if the Regional Administrator determines that there is a significant risk to human health and the environment from nonsudden accidental occurrences resulting from the operations of a facility that is not a surface impoundment, pile, or land treatment facility, he may require that an owner or operator of the facility comply with paragraph (b) of this section. An owner or operator must furnish to the Regional Administrator, within a reasonable time, any information which the Regional Administrator requests to determine whether cause exists for such adjustments of level or type of coverage.
(e)
Period of coverage.
Within 60 days after receiving certifications from the owner or operator and a qualified Professional Engineer that all hazardous secondary materials have been removed from the facility or a unit at the facility and the facility or a unit has been decontaminated in accordance with the approved plan per § 261.143(h), the Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing that he is no longer required under § 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) to maintain liability coverage for that facility or a unit at the facility, unless the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that that all hazardous secondary materials have not been removed from the facility or unit at a facility or that the facility or unit has not been decontaminated in accordance with the approved plan.
(f)
Financial test for liability coverage.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by demonstrating that he passes a financial test as specified in this paragraph. To pass this test the owner or operator must meet the criteria of paragraph (f)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section:
(i) The owner or operator must have:
(A) Net working capital and tangible net worth each at least six times the amount of liability coverage to be demonstrated by this test; and
(B) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(C) Assets in the United States amounting to either:
(
1
) At least 90 percent of his total assets; or
(
2
) at least six times the amount of liability coverage to be demonstrated by this test.
(ii) The owner or operator must have:
(A) A current rating for his most recent bond issuance of AAA, AA, A, or BBB as issued by Standard and Poor's, or Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa as issued by Moody's; and
(B) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(C) Tangible net worth at least six times the amount of liability coverage to be demonstrated by this test; and
(D) Assets in the United States amounting to either:
(
1
) At least 90 percent of his total assets; or
(
2
) at least six times the amount of liability coverage to be demonstrated by this test.
(2) The phrase “amount of liability coverage” as used in paragraph (f)(1) of this section refers to the annual aggregate amounts for which coverage is required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the annual aggregate amounts for which coverage is required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of 40 CFR 264.147 and 265.147.
(3) To demonstrate that he meets this test, the owner or operator must submit the following three items to the Regional Administrator:
(i) A letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer and worded as specified in § 261.151(f). If an owner or operator is using the financial test to demonstrate both assurance as specified by § 261.143(e),
and
liability coverage, he must submit the letter specified in § 261.151(f) to cover both forms of financial responsibility; a separate letter as specified in § 261.151(e) is not required.
(ii) A copy of the independent certified public accountant's report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year.
(iii) If the chief financial officer's letter providing evidence of financial assurance includes financial data showing that the owner or operator satisfies paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section that
are different from the data in the audited financial statements referred to in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section or any other audited financial statement or data filed with the SEC, then a special report from the owner's or operator's independent certified public accountant to the owner or operator is required. The special report shall be based upon an agreed upon procedures engagement in accordance with professional auditing standards and shall describe the procedures performed in comparing the data in the chief financial officer's letter derived from the independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest fiscal year with the amounts in such financial statements, the findings of the comparison, and the reasons for any difference.
(4) The owner or operator may obtain a one-time extension of the time allowed for submission of the documents specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section if the fiscal year of the owner or operator ends during the 90 days prior to the effective date of these regulations and if the year-end financial statements for that fiscal year will be audited by an independent certified public accountant. The extension will end no later than 90 days after the end of the owner's or operator's fiscal year. To obtain the extension, the owner's or operator's chief financial officer must send, by the effective date of these regulations, a letter to the Regional Administrator of each Region in which the owner's or operator's facilities to be covered by the financial test are located. This letter from the chief financial officer must:
(i) Request the extension;
(ii) Certify that he has grounds to believe that the owner or operator meets the criteria of the financial test;
(iii) Specify for each facility to be covered by the test the EPA Identification Number, name, address, the amount of liability coverage and, when applicable, current closure and post-closure cost estimates to be covered by the test;
(iv) Specify the date ending the owner's or operator's last complete fiscal year before the effective date of these regulations;
(v) Specify the date, no later than 90 days after the end of such fiscal year, when he will submit the documents specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section; and
(vi) Certify that the year-end financial statements of the owner or operator for such fiscal year will be audited by an independent certified public accountant.
(5) After the initial submission of items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must send updated information to the Regional Administrator within 90 days after the close of each succeeding fiscal year. This information must consist of all three items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(6) If the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, he must obtain insurance, a letter of credit, a surety bond, a trust fund, or a guarantee for the entire amount of required liability coverage as specified in this section. Evidence of liability coverage must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year for which the year-end financial data show that the owner or operator no longer meets the test requirements.
(7) The Regional Administrator may disallow use of this test on the basis of qualifications in the opinion expressed by the independent certified public accountant in his report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements (see paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section). An adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion will be cause for disallowance. The Regional Administrator will evaluate other qualifications on an individual basis. The owner or operator must provide evidence of insurance for the entire amount of required liability coverage as specified in this section within 30 days after notification of disallowance.
(g)
Guarantee for liability coverage.
(1) Subject to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, an owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a written guarantee, hereinafter referred to as “guarantee.” The guarantor must be the direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or
operator, a firm whose parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, or a firm with a “substantial business relationship” with the owner or operator. The guarantor must meet the requirements for owners or operators in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section. The wording of the guarantee must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(g)(2). A certified copy of the guarantee must accompany the items sent to the Regional Administrator as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. One of these items must be the letter from the guarantor's chief financial officer. If the guarantor's parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, this letter must describe the value received in consideration of the guarantee. If the guarantor is a firm with a “substantial business relationship” with the owner or operator, this letter must describe this “substantial business relationship” and the value received in consideration of the guarantee.
(i) If the owner or operator fails to satisfy a judgment based on a determination of liability for bodily injury or property damage to third parties caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences (or both as the case may be), arising from the operation of facilities covered by this corporate guarantee, or fails to pay an amount agreed to in settlement of claims arising from or alleged to arise from such injury or damage, the guarantor will do so up to the limits of coverage.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2)(i) In the case of corporations incorporated in the United States, a guarantee may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section only if the Attorneys General or Insurance Commissioners of:
(A) The State in which the guarantor is incorporated; and
(B) Each State in which a facility covered by the guarantee is located have submitted a written statement to EPA that a guarantee executed as described in this section and § 261.151(g)(2) is a legally valid and enforceable obligation in that State.
(ii) In the case of corporations incorporated outside the United States, a guarantee may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section only if:
(A) The non-U.S. corporation has identified a registered agent for service of process in each State in which a facility covered by the guarantee is located and in the State in which it has its principal place of business; and if
(B) The Attorney General or Insurance Commissioner of each State in which a facility covered by the guarantee is located and the State in which the guarantor corporation has its principal place of business, has submitted a written statement to EPA that a guarantee executed as described in this section and § 261.151(g)(2) is a legally valid and enforceable obligation in that State.
(h)
Letter of credit for liability coverage.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining an irrevocable standby letter of credit that conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting a copy of the letter of credit to the Regional Administrator.
(2) The financial institution issuing the letter of credit must be an entity that has the authority to issue letters of credit and whose letter of credit operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(3) The wording of the letter of credit must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(j).
(4) An owner or operator who uses a letter of credit to satisfy the requirements of this section may also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of such a letter of credit, all amounts paid pursuant to a draft by the trustee of the standby trust will be deposited by the issuing institution into the standby trust in accordance with instructions from the trustee. The trustee of the standby trust fund must be an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(5) The wording of the standby trust fund must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(m).
(i)
Surety bond for liability coverage.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond that conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and
submitting a copy of the bond to the Regional Administrator.
(2) The surety company issuing the bond must be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in the most recent Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(3) The wording of the surety bond must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(k) of this chapter.
(4) A surety bond may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section only if the Attorneys General or Insurance Commissioners of:
(i) The State in which the surety is incorporated; and
(ii) Each State in which a facility covered by the surety bond is located have submitted a written statement to EPA that a surety bond executed as described in this section and § 261.151(k) is a legally valid and enforceable obligation in that State.
(j)
Trust fund for liability coverage.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing a trust fund that conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting an originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement to the Regional Administrator.
(2) The trustee must be an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(3) The trust fund for liability coverage must be funded for the full amount of the liability coverage to be provided by the trust fund before it may be relied upon to satisfy the requirements of this section. If at any time after the trust fund is created the amount of funds in the trust fund is reduced below the full amount of the liability coverage to be provided, the owner or operator, by the anniversary date of the establishment of the Fund, must either add sufficient funds to the trust fund to cause its value to equal the full amount of liability coverage to be provided, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the difference. For purposes of this paragraph, “the full amount of the liability coverage to be provided” means the amount of coverage for sudden and/or nonsudden occurrences required to be provided by the owner or operator by this section, less the amount of financial assurance for liability coverage that is being provided by other financial assurance mechanisms being used to demonstrate financial assurance by the owner or operator.
(4) The wording of the trust fund must be identical to the wording specified in § 261.151(l).
[73 FR 64764, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 54101, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.148
Incapacity of owners or operators, guarantors, or financial institutions.
(a) An owner or operator must notify the Regional Administrator by certified mail of the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming the owner or operator as debtor, within 10 days after commencement of the proceeding. A guarantor of a corporate guarantee as specified in § 261.143(e) must make such a notification if he is named as debtor, as required under the terms of the corporate guarantee.
(b) An owner or operator who fulfills the requirements of § 261.143 or § 261.147 by obtaining a trust fund, surety bond, letter of credit, or insurance policy will be deemed to be without the required financial assurance or liability coverage in the event of bankruptcy of the trustee or issuing institution, or a suspension or revocation of the authority of the trustee institution to act as trustee or of the institution issuing the surety bond, letter of credit, or insurance policy to issue such instruments. The owner or operator must establish other financial assurance or liability coverage within 60 days after such an event.
§ 261.149
Use of State-required mechanisms.
(a) For a reclamation or intermediate facility located in a State where EPA is administering the requirements of this subpart but where the State has regulations that include requirements for financial assurance of closure or liability coverage, an owner or operator may use State-required financial mechanisms to meet the requirements of § 261.143 or § 261.147 if the
Regional Administrator determines that the State mechanisms are at least equivalent to the financial mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator will evaluate the equivalency of the mechanisms principally in terms of certainty of the availability of: Funds for the required closure activities or liability coverage; and the amount of funds that will be made available. The Regional Administrator may also consider other factors as he deems appropriate. The owner or operator must submit to the Regional Administrator evidence of the establishment of the mechanism together with a letter requesting that the State-required mechanism be considered acceptable for meeting the requirements of this subpart. The submission must include the following information: The facility's EPA Identification Number (if available), name, and address, and the amount of funds for closure or liability coverage assured by the mechanism. The Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator of his determination regarding the mechanism's acceptability in lieu of financial mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator to submit additional information as is deemed necessary to make this determination. Pending this determination, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of § 261.143 or § 261.147, as applicable.
(b) If a State-required mechanism is found acceptable as specified in paragraph (a) of this section except for the amount of funds available, the owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this subpart by increasing the funds available through the State-required mechanism or using additional financial mechanisms as specified in this subpart. The amount of funds available through the State and Federal mechanisms must at least equal the amount required by this subpart.
§ 261.150
State assumption of responsibility.
(a) If a State either assumes legal responsibility for an owner's or operator's compliance with the closure or liability requirements of this part or assures that funds will be available from State sources to cover those requirements, the owner or operator will be in compliance with the requirements of § 261.143 or § 261.147 if the Regional Administrator determines that the State's assumption of responsibility is at least equivalent to the financial mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator will evaluate the equivalency of State guarantees principally in terms of: Certainty of the availability of funds for the required closure activities or liability coverage; and the amount of funds that will be made available. The Regional Administrator may also consider other factors as he deems appropriate. The owner or operator must submit to the Regional Administrator a letter from the State describing the nature of the State's assumption of responsibility together with a letter from the owner or operator requesting that the State's assumption of responsibility be considered acceptable for meeting the requirements of this subpart. The letter from the State must include, or have attached to it, the following information: The facility's EPA Identification Number (if available), name, and address, and the amount of funds for closure or liability coverage that are guaranteed by the State. The Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator of his determination regarding the acceptability of the State's guarantee in lieu of financial mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator to submit additional information as is deemed necessary to make this determination. Pending this determination, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of § 265.143 or § 265.147, as applicable.
(b) If a State's assumption of responsibility is found acceptable as specified in paragraph (a) of this section except for the amount of funds available, the owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this subpart by use of both the State's assurance and additional financial mechanisms as specified in this subpart. The amount of funds available through the State and Federal mechanisms must at least equal the amount required by this subpart.
§ 261.151
Wording of the instruments.
(a)(1) A trust agreement for a trust fund, as specified in § 261.143(a) must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Trust Agreement
Trust Agreement, the “Agreement,” entered into as of [date] by and between [name of the owner or operator], a [name of State] [insert “corporation,” “partnership,” “association,” or “proprietorship”], the “Grantor,” and [name of corporate trustee], [insert “incorporated in the State of ______-----” or “a national bank”], the “Trustee.”
Whereas, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, “EPA,” an agency of the United States Government, has established certain regulations applicable to the Grantor, requiring that an owner or operator of a facility regulated under parts 264, or 265, or satisfying the conditions of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24) shall provide assurance that funds will be available if needed for care of the facility under 40 CFR parts 264 or 265, subparts G, as applicable ,
Whereas, the Grantor has elected to establish a trust to provide all or part of such financial assurance for the facilities identified herein,
Whereas, the Grantor, acting through its duly authorized officers, has selected the Trustee to be the trustee under this agreement, and the Trustee is willing to act as trustee,
Now, Therefore, the Grantor and the Trustee agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement:
(a) The term “Grantor” means the owner or operator who enters into this Agreement and any successors or assigns of the Grantor.
(b) The term “Trustee” means the Trustee who enters into this Agreement and any successor Trustee.
Section 2. Identification of Facilities and Cost Estimates. This Agreement pertains to the facilities and cost estimates identified on attached Schedule A [on Schedule A, for each facility list the EPA Identification Number (if available), name, address, and the current cost estimates, or portions thereof, for which financial assurance is demonstrated by this Agreement].
Section 3. Establishment of Fund. The Grantor and the Trustee hereby establish a trust fund, the “Fund,” for the benefit of EPA in the event that the hazardous secondary materials of the grantor no longer meet the conditions of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24). The Grantor and the Trustee intend that no third party have access to the Fund except as herein provided. The Fund is established initially as consisting of the property, which is acceptable to the Trustee, described in Schedule B attached hereto. Such property and any other property subsequently transferred to the Trustee is referred to as the Fund, together with all earnings and profits thereon, less any payments or distributions made by the Trustee pursuant to this Agreement. The Fund shall be held by the Trustee, IN TRUST, as hereinafter provided. The Trustee shall not be responsible nor shall it undertake any responsibility for the amount or adequacy of, nor any duty to collect from the Grantor, any payments necessary to discharge any liabilities of the Grantor established by EPA.
Section 4. Payments from the Fund. The Trustee shall make payments from the Fund as the EPA Regional Administrator shall direct, in writing, to provide for the payment of the costs of the performance of activities required under subpart G of 40 CFR parts 264 or 265 for the facilities covered by this Agreement. The Trustee shall reimburse the Grantor or other persons as specified by the EPA Regional Administrator from the Fund for expenditures for such activities in such amounts as the beneficiary shall direct in writing. In addition, the Trustee shall refund to the Grantor such amounts as the EPA Regional Administrator specifies in writing. Upon refund, such funds shall no longer constitute part of the Fund as defined herein.
Section 5. Payments Comprising the Fund. Payments made to the Trustee for the Fund shall consist of cash or securities acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 6. Trustee Management. The Trustee shall invest and reinvest the principal and income of the Fund and keep the Fund invested as a single fund, without distinction between principal and income, in accordance with general investment policies and guidelines which the Grantor may communicate in writing to the Trustee from time to time, subject, however, to the provisions of this section. In investing, reinvesting, exchanging, selling, and managing the Fund, the Trustee shall discharge his duties with respect to the trust fund solely in the interest of the beneficiary and with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters, would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; except that:
(i) Securities or other obligations of the Grantor, or any other owner or operator of the facilities, or any of their affiliates as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2.(a), shall not be acquired or held, unless they are securities or other obligations of the Federal or a State government;
(ii) The Trustee is authorized to invest the Fund in time or demand deposits of the
Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(iii) The Trustee is authorized to hold cash awaiting investment or distribution uninvested for a reasonable time and without liability for the payment of interest thereon.
Section 7. Commingling and Investment. The Trustee is expressly authorized in its discretion:
(a) To transfer from time to time any or all of the assets of the Fund to any common, commingled, or collective trust fund created by the Trustee in which the Fund is eligible to participate, subject to all of the provisions thereof, to be commingled with the assets of other trusts participating therein; and
(b) To purchase shares in any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.,
including one which may be created, managed, underwritten, or to which investment advice is rendered or the shares of which are sold by the Trustee. The Trustee may vote such shares in its discretion.
Section 8. Express Powers of Trustee. Without in any way limiting the powers and discretions conferred upon the Trustee by the other provisions of this Agreement or by law, the Trustee is expressly authorized and empowered:
(a) To sell, exchange, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any property held by it, by public or private sale. No person dealing with the Trustee shall be bound to see to the application of the purchase money or to inquire into the validity or expediency of any such sale or other disposition;
(b) To make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all documents of transfer and conveyance and any and all other instruments that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers herein granted;
(c) To register any securities held in the Fund in its own name or in the name of a nominee and to hold any security in bearer form or in book entry, or to combine certificates representing such securities with certificates of the same issue held by the Trustee in other fiduciary capacities, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of such securities in a qualified central depositary even though, when so deposited, such securities may be merged and held in bulk in the name of the nominee of such depositary with other securities deposited therein by another person, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of any securities issued by the United States Government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, with a Federal Reserve bank, but the books and records of the Trustee shall at all times show that all such securities are part of the Fund;
(d) To deposit any cash in the Fund in interest-bearing accounts maintained or savings certificates issued by the Trustee, in its separate corporate capacity, or in any other banking institution affiliated with the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(e) To compromise or otherwise adjust all claims in favor of or against the Fund.
Section 9. Taxes and Expenses. All taxes of any kind that may be assessed or levied against or in respect of the Fund and all brokerage commissions incurred by the Fund shall be paid from the Fund. All other expenses incurred by the Trustee in connection with the administration of this Trust, including fees for legal services rendered to the Trustee, the compensation of the Trustee to the extent not paid directly by the Grantor, and all other proper charges and disbursements of the Trustee shall be paid from the Fund.
Section 10. Annual Valuation. The Trustee shall annually, at least 30 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund, furnish to the Grantor and to the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator a statement confirming the value of the Trust. Any securities in the Fund shall be valued at market value as of no more than 60 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund. The failure of the Grantor to object in writing to the Trustee within 90 days after the statement has been furnished to the Grantor and the EPA Regional Administrator shall constitute a conclusively binding assent by the Grantor, barring the Grantor from asserting any claim or liability against the Trustee with respect to matters disclosed in the statement.
Section 11. Advice of Counsel. The Trustee may from time to time consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Grantor, with respect to any question arising as to the construction of this Agreement or any action to be taken hereunder. The Trustee shall be fully protected, to the extent permitted by law, in acting upon the advice of counsel.
Section 12. Trustee Compensation. The Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed upon in writing from time to time with the Grantor.
Section 13. Successor Trustee. The Trustee may resign or the Grantor may replace the Trustee, but such resignation or replacement shall not be effective until the Grantor has appointed a successor trustee and this successor accepts the appointment. The successor trustee shall have the same powers and duties as those conferred upon the Trustee hereunder. Upon the successor trustee's acceptance of the appointment, the Trustee shall assign, transfer, and pay over to the successor trustee the funds and properties then constituting the Fund. If for any reason the Grantor cannot or does not act in the event of the resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee or for instructions. The
successor trustee shall specify the date on which it assumes administration of the trust in a writing sent to the Grantor, the EPA Regional Administrator, and the present Trustee by certified mail 10 days before such change becomes effective. Any expenses incurred by the Trustee as a result of any of the acts contemplated by this Section shall be paid as provided in Section 9.
Section 14. Instructions to the Trustee. All orders, requests, and instructions by the Grantor to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by such persons as are designated in the attached Exhibit A or such other designees as the Grantor may designate by amendment to Exhibit A. The Trustee shall be fully protected in acting without inquiry in accordance with the Grantor's orders, requests, and instructions. All orders, requests, and instructions by the EPA Regional Administrator to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by the EPA Regional Administrators of the Regions in which the facilities are located, or their designees, and the Trustee shall act and shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such orders, requests, and instructions. The Trustee shall have the right to assume, in the absence of written notice to the contrary, that no event constituting a change or a termination of the authority of any person to act on behalf of the Grantor or EPA hereunder has occurred. The Trustee shall have no duty to act in the absence of such orders, requests, and instructions from the Grantor and/or EPA, except as provided for herein.
Section 15. Amendment of Agreement. This Agreement may be amended by an instrument in writing executed by the Grantor, the Trustee, and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator if the Grantor ceases to exist.
Section 16. Irrevocability and Termination. Subject to the right of the parties to amend this Agreement as provided in Section 16, this Trust shall be irrevocable and shall continue until terminated at the written agreement of the Grantor, the Trustee, and the EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the EPA Regional Administrator, if the Grantor ceases to exist. Upon termination of the Trust, all remaining trust property, less final trust administration expenses, shall be delivered to the Grantor.
Section 17. Immunity and Indemnification. The Trustee shall not incur personal liability of any nature in connection with any act or omission, made in good faith, in the administration of this Trust, or in carrying out any directions by the Grantor or the EPA Regional Administrator issued in accordance with this Agreement. The Trustee shall be indemnified and saved harmless by the Grantor or from the Trust Fund, or both, from and against any personal liability to which the Trustee may be subjected by reason of any act or conduct in its official capacity, including all expenses reasonably incurred in its defense in the event the Grantor fails to provide such defense.
Section 18. Choice of Law. This Agreement shall be administered, construed, and enforced according to the laws of the State of [insert name of State].
Section 19. Interpretation. As used in this Agreement, words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular. The descriptive headings for each Section of this Agreement shall not affect the interpretation or the legal efficacy of this Agreement.
In Witness Whereof the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers duly authorized and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested as of the date first above written: The parties below certify that the wording of this Agreement is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(a)(1) as such regulations were constituted on the date first above written.
[Signature of Grantor]
[Title]
Attest:
[Title]
[Seal]
[Signature of Trustee]
Attest:
[Title]
[Seal]
(2) The following is an example of the certification of acknowledgment which must accompany the trust agreement for a trust fund as specified in § 261.143(a) of this chapter. State requirements may differ on the proper content of this acknowledgment.
State of
County of
On this [date], before me personally came [owner or operator] to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she/he resides at [address], that she/he is [title] of [corporation], the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument; that she/he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to such instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that she/he signed her/his name thereto by like order.
[Signature of Notary Public]
(b) A surety bond guaranteeing payment into a trust fund, as specified in § 261.143(b) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Financial Guarantee Bond
Date bond executed:
Effective date:
Principal: [legal name and business address of owner or operator]
Type of Organization: [insert “individual,” “joint venture,” “partnership,” or “corporation”]
State of incorporation:
Surety(ies): [name(s) and business address(es)]
EPA Identification Number, name, address and amount(s) for each facility guaranteed by this bond:
Total penal sum of bond: $
Surety's bond number:
Know All Persons By These Presents, That we, the Principal and Surety(ies) are firmly bound to the U.S. EPA in the event that the hazardous secondary materials at the reclamation or intermediate facility listed below no longer meet the conditions of the exclusion under 40 CFR 261.4(a)(24), in the above penal sum for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns jointly and severally; provided that, where the Surety(ies) are corporations acting as co-sureties, we, the Sureties, bind ourselves in such sum “jointly and severally” only for the purpose of allowing a joint action or actions against any or all of us, and for all other purposes each Surety binds itself, jointly and severally with the Principal, for the payment of such sum only as is set forth opposite the name of such Surety, but if no limit of liability is indicated, the limit of liability shall be the full amount of the penal sum.
Whereas said Principal is required, under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act as amended (RCRA), to have a permit or interim status in order to own or operate each facility identified above, or to meet conditions under 40 CFR sections 261.4(a)(24), and
Whereas said Principal is required to provide financial assurance as a condition of permit or interim status or as a condition of an exclusion under 40 CFR sections 261.4(a)(24) and
Whereas said Principal shall establish a standby trust fund as is required when a surety bond is used to provide such financial assurance;
Now, Therefore, the conditions of the obligation are such that if the Principal shall faithfully, before the beginning of final closure of each facility identified above, fund the standby trust fund in the amount(s) identified above for the facility,
Or, if the Principal shall satisfy all the conditions established for exclusion of hazardous secondary materials from coverage as solid waste under 40 CFR sections 261.4(a)(24),
Or, if the Principal shall fund the standby trust fund in such amount(s) within 15 days after a final order to begin closure is issued by an EPA Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction,
Or, if the Principal shall provide alternate financial assurance, as specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, as applicable, and obtain the EPA Regional Administrator's written approval of such assurance, within 90 days after the date notice of cancellation is received by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) from the Surety(ies), then this obligation shall be null and void; otherwise it is to remain in full force and effect.
The Surety(ies) shall become liable on this bond obligation only when the Principal has failed to fulfill the conditions described above. Upon notification by an EPA Regional Administrator that the Principal has failed to perform as guaranteed by this bond, the Surety(ies) shall place funds in the amount guaranteed for the facility(ies) into the standby trust fund as directed by the EPA Regional Administrator.
The liability of the Surety(ies) shall not be discharged by any payment or succession of payments hereunder, unless and until such payment or payments shall amount in the aggregate to the penal sum of the bond, but in no event shall the obligation of the Surety(ies) hereunder exceed the amount of said penal sum.
The Surety(ies) may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the Principal and to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is (are) located, provided, however, that cancellation shall not occur during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s), as evidenced by the return receipts.
The Principal may terminate this bond by sending written notice to the Surety(ies), provided, however, that no such notice shall become effective until the Surety(ies) receive(s) written authorization for termination of the bond by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the bonded facility(ies) is (are) located.
[The following paragraph is an optional rider that may be included but is not required.]
Principal and Surety(ies) hereby agree to adjust the penal sum of the bond yearly so that it guarantees a new amount, provided that the penal sum does not increase by more than 20 percent in any one year, and no decrease in the penal sum takes place without the written permission of the EPA Regional Administrator(s).
In Witness Whereof, the Principal and Surety(ies) have executed this Financial Guarantee Bond and have affixed their seals on the date set forth above.
The persons whose signatures appear below hereby certify that they are authorized to execute this surety bond on behalf of the Principal and Surety(ies) and that the wording of this surety bond is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(b) as such regulations were constituted on the date this bond was executed.

# Principal
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s)]
[Title(s)]
[Corporate seal]

# Corporate Surety(ies)
[Name and address]
State of incorporation:
Liability limit:
$
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s) and title(s)]
[Corporate seal]
[For every co-surety, provide signature(s), corporate seal, and other information in the same manner as for Surety above.]
Bond premium: $
(c) A letter of credit, as specified in § 261.143(c) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit

# Regional Administrator(s)
Region(s)

# U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Dear Sir or Madam: We hereby establish our Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit No.________ in your favor, in the event that the hazardous secondary materials at the covered reclamation or intermediary facility(ies) no longer meet the conditions of the exclusion under 40 CFR 261.4(a)(24), at the request and for the account of [owner's or operator's name and address] up to the aggregate amount of [in words] U.S. dollars $________, available upon presentation of
(1) your sight draft, bearing reference to this letter of credit No.____, and
(2) your signed statement reading as follows: “I certify that the amount of the draft is payable pursuant to regulations issued under authority of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 as amended.”
This letter of credit is effective as of [date] and shall expire on [date at least 1 year later], but such expiration date shall be automatically extended for a period of [at least 1 year] on [date] and on each successive expiration date, unless, at least 120 days before the current expiration date, we notify both you and [owner's or operator's name] by certified mail that we have decided not to extend this letter of credit beyond the current expiration date. In the event you are so notified, any unused portion of the credit shall be available upon presentation of your sight draft for 120 days after the date of receipt by both you and [owner's or operator's name], as shown on the signed return receipts.
Whenever this letter of credit is drawn on under and in compliance with the terms of this credit, we shall duly honor such draft upon presentation to us, and we shall deposit the amount of the draft directly into the standby trust fund of [owner's or operator's name] in accordance with your instructions.
We certify that the wording of this letter of credit is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(c) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.

# [Signature(s) and title(s) of official(s) of issuing institution] [Date]
This credit is subject to [insert “the most recent edition of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, published and copyrighted by the International Chamber of Commerce,” or “the Uniform Commercial Code”].
(d) A certificate of insurance, as specified in § 261.143(e) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Certificate of Insurance

# Name and Address of Insurer (herein called the “Insurer”):

# Name and Address of Insured (herein called the “Insured”):
Facilities Covered: [List for each facility: The EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, address, and the amount of insurance for all facilities covered, which must total the face amount shown below.

# Face Amount:
Policy Number:

# Effective Date:
The Insurer hereby certifies that it has issued to the Insured the policy of insurance
identified above to provide financial assurance so that in accordance with applicable regulations all hazardous secondary materials can be removed from the facility or any unit at the facility and the facility or any unit at the facility can be decontaminated at the facilities identified above. The Insurer further warrants that such policy conforms in all respects with the requirements of 40 CFR 261.143(d) as applicable and as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below. It is agreed that any provision of the policy inconsistent with such regulations is hereby amended to eliminate such inconsistency.
Whenever requested by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Insurer agrees to furnish to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) a duplicate original of the policy listed above, including all endorsements thereon.
I hereby certify that the wording of this certificate is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(d) such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.

# [Authorized signature for Insurer]

# [Name of person signing]

# [Title of person signing]
Signature of witness or notary:

# [Date]
(e) A letter from the chief financial officer, as specified in § 261.143(e) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Letter From Chief Financial Officer
[Address to Regional Administrator of every Region in which facilities for which financial responsibility is to be demonstrated through the financial test are located].
I am the chief financial officer of [name and address of firm]. This letter is in support of this firm's use of the financial test to demonstrate financial assurance, as specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261.
[Fill out the following nine paragraphs regarding facilities and associated cost estimates. If your firm has no facilities that belong in a particular paragraph, write “None” in the space indicated. For each facility, include its EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, address, and current cost estimates.]
1. This firm is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which financial assurance is demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR 261. The current cost estimates covered by the test are shown for each facility: ________.
2. This firm guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, the following facilities owned or operated by the guaranteed party. The current cost estimates so guaranteed are shown for each facility: ________. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee________, or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ________, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee________]. [Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter].
3. In States where EPA is not administering the financial requirements of subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, this firm, as owner or operator or guarantor, is demonstrating financial assurance for the following facilities through the use of a test equivalent or substantially equivalent to the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261. The current cost estimates covered by such a test are shown for each facility:________.
4. This firm is the owner or operator of the following hazardous secondary materials management facilities for which financial assurance is not demonstrated either to EPA or a State through the financial test or any other financial assurance mechanism specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261 or equivalent or substantially equivalent State mechanisms. The current cost estimates not covered by such financial assurance are shown for each facility:________.
5. This firm is the owner or operator of the following UIC facilities for which financial assurance for plugging and abandonment is required under part 144. The current closure cost estimates as required by 40 CFR 144.62 are shown for each facility:________.
6. This firm is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which financial assurance for closure or post-closure care is demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates covered by the test are shown for each facility: ________ .
7. This firm guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, the closure or post-closure care of the following facilities owned or operated by the guaranteed party. The current cost estimates for the closure or post-closure care so guaranteed are shown for each facility: ________. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as
the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ______; or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ____, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ____]. [Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter].
8. In States where EPA is not administering the financial requirements of subpart H of 40 CFR part 264 or 265, this firm, as owner or operator or guarantor, is demonstrating financial assurance for the closure or post-closure care of the following facilities through the use of a test equivalent or substantially equivalent to the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates covered by such a test are shown for each facility: ____.
9. This firm is the owner or operator of the following hazardous waste management facilities for which financial assurance for closure or, if a disposal facility, post-closure care, is not demonstrated either to EPA or a State through the financial test or any other financial assurance mechanism specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265 or equivalent or substantially equivalent State mechanisms. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates not covered by such financial assurance are shown for each facility: ____.
This firm [insert “is required” or “is not required”] to file a Form 10K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the latest fiscal year.
The fiscal year of this firm ends on [month, day]. The figures for the following items marked with an asterisk are derived from this firm's independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year, ended [date].
[Fill in Alternative I if the criteria of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of § 261.143 of this chapter are used. Fill in Alternative II if the criteria of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of § 261.143(e) of this chapter are used.]

# Alternative I
1. Sum of current cost estimates [total of all cost estimates shown in the nine paragraphs above] $____
*2. Total liabilities [if any portion of the cost estimates is included in total liabilities, you may deduct the amount of that portion from this line and add that amount to lines 3 and 4] $____
*3. Tangible net worth $________
*4. Net worth $________-
*5. Current assets $________
*6. Current liabilities $________
7. Net working capital [line 5 minus line 6] $________
*8. The sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization $________-
*9. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of firm's assets are located in the U.S.) $________-
10. Is line 3 at least $10 million? (Yes/No) ________
11. Is line 3 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-
12. Is line 7 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-
*13. Are at least 90% of firm's assets located in the U.S.? If not, complete line 14 (Yes/No) ________
14. Is line 9 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-
15. Is line 2 divided by line 4 less than 2.0? (Yes/No) ________-
16. Is line 8 divided by line 2 greater than 0.1? (Yes/No) ________-
17. Is line 5 divided by line 6 greater than 1.5? (Yes/No) ________-

# Alternative II
1. Sum of current cost estimates [total of all cost estimates shown in the eight paragraphs above] $________-
2. Current bond rating of most recent issuance of this firm and name of rating service ________-
3. Date of issuance of bond ________-
4. Date of maturity of bond ________-
*5. Tangible net worth [if any portion of the cost estimates is included in “total liabilities” on your firm's financial statements, you may add the amount of that portion to this line] $________-
*6. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of firm's assets are located in the U.S.) $________-
7. Is line 5 at least $10 million? (Yes/No) ________
8. Is line 5 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________
*9. Are at least 90% of firm's assets located in the U.S.? If not, complete line 10 (Yes/No) ________
10. Is line 6 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-
I hereby certify that the wording of this letter is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(e) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
[Signature]
[Name]
[Title]
[Date]
(f) A letter from the chief financial officer, as specified in Sec. 261.147(f) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted.

# Letter From Chief Financial Officer
[Address to Regional Administrator of every Region in which facilities for which financial responsibility is to be demonstrated through the financial test are located].
I am the chief financial officer of [firm's name and address]. This letter is in support of the use of the financial test to demonstrate financial responsibility for liability coverage under § 261.147[insert “and costs assured § 261.143(e)” if applicable] as specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261.
[Fill out the following paragraphs regarding facilities and liability coverage. If there are no facilities that belong in a particular paragraph, write “None” in the space indicated. For each facility, include its EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address].
The firm identified above is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which liability coverage for [insert “sudden” or “nonsudden” or “both sudden and nonsudden”] accidental occurrences is being demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261:________
The firm identified above guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, liability coverage for [insert “sudden” or “nonsudden” or “both sudden and nonsudden”] accidental occurrences at the following facilities owned or operated by the following: ________-. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee -________; or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ________-, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ________-]. [Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter.]
The firm identified above is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which liability coverage for [insert “sudden” or “nonsudden” or “both sudden and nonsudden”] accidental occurrences is being demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265:________
The firm identified above guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, liability coverage for [insert “sudden” or “nonsudden” or “both sudden and nonsudden”] accidental occurrences at the following facilities owned or operated by the following: ____. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ____; or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ____, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ____]. [Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter.]
[If you are using the financial test to demonstrate coverage of both liability and costs assured under § 261.143(e) or closure or post-closure care costs under 40 CFR 264.143, 264.145, 265.143 or 265.145, fill in the following nine paragraphs regarding facilities and associated cost estimates. If there are no facilities that belong in a particular paragraph, write “None” in the space indicated. For each facility, include its EPA identification number (if any issued), name, address, and current cost estimates.]
1. This firm is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which financial assurance is demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR 261. The current cost estimates covered by the test are shown for each facility:________.
2. This firm guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, the following facilities owned or operated by the guaranteed party. The current cost estimates so guaranteed are shown for each facility:________. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee________, or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ________, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee________]. [Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter].
3. In States where EPA is not administering the financial requirements of subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, this firm, as owner or operator or guarantor, is demonstrating financial assurance for the following facilities through the use of a test equivalent or substantially equivalent to the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261. The current cost estimates covered by such a test are shown for each facility:________.
4. This firm is the owner or operator of the following hazardous secondary materials management facilities for which financial assurance is not demonstrated either to EPA or a State through the financial test or any other financial assurance mechanism specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261 or equivalent or substantially equivalent State mechanisms. The current cost estimates not
covered by such financial assurance are shown for each facility:________.
5. This firm is the owner or operator of the following UIC facilities for which financial assurance for plugging and abandonment is required under part 144. The current closure cost estimates as required by 40 CFR 144.62 are shown for each facility:________.
6. This firm is the owner or operator of the following facilities for which financial assurance for closure or post-closure care is demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates covered by the test are shown for each facility: ________.
7. This firm guarantees, through the guarantee specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, the closure or post-closure care of the following facilities owned or operated by the guaranteed party. The current cost estimates for the closure or post-closure care so guaranteed are shown for each facility: ________. The firm identified above is [insert one or more: (1) The direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator; (2) owned by the same parent corporation as the parent corporation of the owner or operator, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ________; or (3) engaged in the following substantial business relationship with the owner or operator ________, and receiving the following value in consideration of this guarantee ________].
[Attach a written description of the business relationship or a copy of the contract establishing such relationship to this letter].
8. In States where EPA is not administering the financial requirements of subpart H of 40 CFR part 264 or 265, this firm, as owner or operator or guarantor, is demonstrating financial assurance for the closure or post-closure care of the following facilities through the use of a test equivalent or substantially equivalent to the financial test specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates covered by such a test are shown for each facility: ________.
9. This firm is the owner or operator of the following hazardous waste management facilities for which financial assurance for closure or, if a disposal facility, post-closure care, is not demonstrated either to EPA or a State through the financial test or any other financial assurance mechanism specified in subpart H of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265 or equivalent or substantially equivalent State mechanisms. The current closure and/or post-closure cost estimates not covered by such financial assurance are shown for each facility: ________.
This firm [insert “is required” or “is not required”] to file a Form 10K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the latest fiscal year.
The fiscal year of this firm ends on [month, day]. The figures for the following items marked with an asterisk are derived from this firm's independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year, ended [date].

# Part A. Liability Coverage for Accidental Occurrences
[Fill in Alternative I if the criteria of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of Sec. 261.147 are used. Fill in Alternative II if the criteria of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of Sec. 261.147 are used.]

# Alternative I
1. Amount of annual aggregate liability coverage to be demonstrated $________-.
*2. Current assets $________-.
*3. Current liabilities $________-.
4. Net working capital (line 2 minus line 3) $________-.
*5. Tangible net worth $________-.
*6. If less than 90% of assets are located in the U.S., give total U.S. assets $________-.
7. Is line 5 at least $10 million? (Yes/No) ________-.
8. Is line 4 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-.
9. Is line 5 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________-.
*10. Are at least 90% of assets located in the U.S.? (Yes/No) ________. If not, complete line 11.
11. Is line 6 at least 6 times line 1? (Yes/No) ________.

# Alternative II
1. Amount of annual aggregate liability coverage to be demonstrated $________-.
2. Current bond rating of most recent issuance and name of rating service ________-________-.
3. Date of issuance of bond ________________—.
4. Date of maturity of bond ________________—.
*5. Tangible net worth $________-.
*6. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of assets are located in the U.S.) $________-.
7. Is line 5 at least $10 million? (Yes/No) ________-.
8. Is line 5 at least 6 times line 1? ________-.
9. Are at least 90% of assets located in the U.S.? If not, complete line 10. (Yes/No) ____.
10. Is line 6 at least 6 times line 1? ________-.
[Fill in part B if you are using the financial test to demonstrate assurance of both liability coverage and costs assured under § 261.143(e) or closure or post-closure care costs under 40 CFR 264.143, 264.145, 265.143 or 265.145.]

# Part B. Facility Care and Liability Coverage
[Fill in Alternative I if the criteria of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) of Sec. 261.143 and (f)(1)(i) of Sec. 261.147 are used. Fill in Alternative II if the criteria of paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) of Sec. 261.143 and (f)(1)(ii) of Sec. 261.147 are used.]

# Alternative I
1. Sum of current cost estimates (total of all cost estimates listed above) $________-
2. Amount of annual aggregate liability coverage to be demonstrated $________-
3. Sum of lines 1 and 2 $________
*4. Total liabilities (if any portion of your cost estimates is included in your total liabilities, you may deduct that portion from this line and add that amount to lines 5 and 6) $________-
*5. Tangible net worth $________
*6. Net worth $________-
*7. Current assets $________
*8. Current liabilities $________
9. Net working capital (line 7 minus line 8) $________
*10. The sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization $________-
*11. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of assets are located in the U.S.) $________
12. Is line 5 at least $10 million? (Yes/No)
13. Is line 5 at least 6 times line 3? (Yes/No)
14. Is line 9 at least 6 times line 3? (Yes/No)
*15. Are at least 90% of assets located in the U.S.? (Yes/No) If not, complete line 16.
16. Is line 11 at least 6 times line 3? (Yes/No)
17. Is line 4 divided by line 6 less than 2.0? (Yes/No)
18. Is line 10 divided by line 4 greater than 0.1? (Yes/No)
19. Is line 7 divided by line 8 greater than 1.5? (Yes/No)

# Alternative II
1. Sum of current cost estimates (total of all cost estimates listed above) $________-
2. Amount of annual aggregate liability coverage to be demonstrated $________-
3. Sum of lines 1 and 2 $________
4. Current bond rating of most recent issuance and name of rating service ____________-
5. Date of issuance of bond ____________—
6. Date of maturity of bond ____________—
*7. Tangible net worth (if any portion of the cost estimates is included in “total liabilities” on your financial statements you may add that portion to this line) $________-
*8. Total assets in the U.S. (required only if less than 90% of assets are located in the U.S.) $________-
9. Is line 7 at least $10 million? (Yes/No)
10. Is line 7 at least 6 times line 3? (Yes/No)
*11. Are at least 90% of assets located in the U.S.? (Yes/No) If not complete line 12.
12. Is line 8 at least 6 times line 3? (Yes/No)
I hereby certify that the wording of this letter is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(f) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
[Signature]
[Name]
[Title]
[Date]
(g)(1) A corporate guarantee, as specified in § 261.143(e) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Corporate Guarantee for Facility Care
Guarantee made this [date] by [name of guaranteeing entity], a business corporation organized under the laws of the State of [insert name of State], herein referred to as guarantor. This guarantee is made on behalf of the [owner or operator] of [business address], which is [one of the following: “our subsidiary”; “a subsidiary of [name and address of common parent corporation], of which guarantor is a subsidiary”; or “an entity with which guarantor has a substantial business relationship, as defined in 40 CFR 264.141(h) and 265.141(h)” to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

# Recitals
1. Guarantor meets or exceeds the financial test criteria and agrees to comply with the reporting requirements for guarantors as specified in 40 CFR 261.143(e).
2. [Owner or operator] owns or operates the following facility(ies) covered by this guarantee: [List for each facility: EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address.
3. “Closure plans” as used below refer to the plans maintained as required by subpart H of 40 CFR part 261 for the care of facilities as identified above.
4. For value received from [owner or operator], guarantor guarantees that in the event of a determination by the Regional Administrator that the hazardous secondary materials at the owner or operator's facility covered by this guarantee do not meet the conditions of the exclusion under § 261.4(a)(24), the guarantor will dispose of any hazardous secondary material as hazardous waste, and close the facility in accordance with closure requirements found in parts 264 or 265 of this chapter, as applicable, or establish a trust fund as specified in § 261.143(a) in the name of the owner or operator in the amount of the current cost estimate.
5. Guarantor agrees that if, at the end of any fiscal year before termination of this guarantee, the guarantor fails to meet the financial test criteria, guarantor shall send
within 90 days, by certified mail, notice to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located and to [owner or operator] that he intends to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, as applicable, in the name of [owner or operator]. Within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year, the guarantor shall establish such financial assurance unless [owner or operator] has done so.
6. The guarantor agrees to notify the EPA Regional Administrator by certified mail, of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming guarantor as debtor, within 10 days after commencement of the proceeding.
7. Guarantor agrees that within 30 days after being notified by an EPA Regional Administrator of a determination that guarantor no longer meets the financial test criteria or that he is disallowed from continuing as a guarantor, he shall establish alternate financial assurance as specified in of 40 CFR parts 264, 265, or subpart H of 40 CFR part 261, as applicable, in the name of [owner or operator] unless [owner or operator] has done so.
8. Guarantor agrees to remain bound under this guarantee notwithstanding any or all of the following: amendment or modification of the closure plan, the extension or reduction of the time of performance, or any other modification or alteration of an obligation of the owner or operator pursuant to 40 CFR parts 264, 265, or Subpart H of 40 CFR part 261.
9. Guarantor agrees to remain bound under this guarantee for as long as [owner or operator] must comply with the applicable financial assurance requirements of 40 CFR parts 264 and 265 or the financial assurance condition of 40 CFR 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F) for the above-listed facilities, except as provided in paragraph 10 of this agreement.
10. [Insert the following language if the guarantor is (a) a direct or higher-tier corporate parent, or (b) a firm whose parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator]:
Guarantor may terminate this guarantee by sending notice by certified mail to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located and to [owner or operator], provided that this guarantee may not be terminated unless and until [the owner or operator] obtains, and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) approve(s), alternate coverage complying with 40 CFR 261.143.
[Insert the following language if the guarantor is a firm qualifying as a guarantor due to its “substantial business relationship” with the owner or operator]
Guarantor may terminate this guarantee 120 days following the receipt of notification, through certified mail, by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located and by [the owner or operator].
11. Guarantor agrees that if [owner or operator] fails to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in 40 CFR parts 264, 265, or subpart H of 40 CFR 261, as applicable, and obtain written approval of such assurance from the EPA Regional Administrator(s) within 90 days after a notice of cancellation by the guarantor is received by an EPA Regional Administrator from guarantor, guarantor shall provide such alternate financial assurance in the name of [owner or operator].
12. Guarantor expressly waives notice of acceptance of this guarantee by the EPA or by [owner or operator]. Guarantor also expressly waives notice of amendments or modifications of the closure plan and of amendments or modifications of the applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 264, 265, or subpart H of 40 CFR 261.
I hereby certify that the wording of this guarantee is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(g)(1) as such regulations were constituted on the date first above written.
Effective date:
[Name of guarantor]
[Authorized signature for guarantor]
[Name of person signing]
[Title of person signing]
Signature of witness or notary:
(2) A guarantee, as specified in § 261.147(g), must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Guarantee for Liability Coverage
Guarantee made this [date] by [name of guaranteeing entity], a business corporation organized under the laws of [if incorporated within the United States insert “the State of ___-” and insert name of State; if incorporated outside the United States insert the name of the country in which incorporated, the principal place of business within the United States, and the name and address of the registered agent in the State of the principal place of business], herein referred to as guarantor. This guarantee is made on behalf of [owner or operator] of [business address], which is one of the following: “our subsidiary;” “a subsidiary of [name and address of common parent corporation], of which guarantor is a subsidiary;” or “an entity with which guarantor has a substantial business relationship, as defined in 40 CFR [either 264.141(h) or 265.141(h)]”, to any and all third parties who have sustained or may sustain bodily injury or property damage caused by [sudden and/or nonsudden] accidental occurrences arising from operation of the facility(ies) covered by this guarantee.

# Recitals
1. Guarantor meets or exceeds the financial test criteria and agrees to comply with the reporting requirements for guarantors as specified in
40 CFR 261.147(g).
2. [Owner or operator] owns or operates the following facility(ies) covered by this guarantee: [List for each facility: EPA identification number (if any issued), name, and address; and if guarantor is incorporated outside the United States list the name and address of the guarantor's registered agent in each State.] This corporate guarantee satisfies RCRA third-party liability requirements for [insert “sudden” or “nonsudden” or “both sudden and nonsudden”] accidental occurrences in above-named owner or operator facilities for coverage in the amount of [insert dollar amount] for each occurrence and [insert dollar amount] annual aggregate.
3. For value received from [owner or operator], guarantor guarantees to any and all third parties who have sustained or may sustain bodily injury or property damage caused by [sudden and/or nonsudden] accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility(ies) covered by this guarantee that in the event that [owner or operator] fails to satisfy a judgment or award based on a determination of liability for bodily injury or property damage to third parties caused by [sudden and/or nonsudden] accidental occurrences, arising from the operation of the above-named facilities, or fails to pay an amount agreed to in settlement of a claim arising from or alleged to arise from such injury or damage, the guarantor will satisfy such judgment(s), award(s) or settlement agreement(s) up to the limits of coverage identified above.
4. Such obligation does not apply to any of the following:
(a) Bodily injury or property damage for which [insert owner or operator] is obligated to pay damages by reason of the assumption of liability in a contract or agreement. This exclusion does not apply to liability for damages that [insert owner or operator] would be obligated to pay in the absence of the contract or agreement.
(b) Any obligation of [insert owner or operator] under a workers' compensation, disability benefits, or unemployment compensation law or any similar law.
(c) Bodily injury to:
(1) An employee of [insert owner or operator] arising from, and in the course of, employment by [insert owner or operator]; or
(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother, or sister of that employee as a consequence of, or arising from, and in the course of employment by [insert owner or operator]. This exclusion applies:
(A) Whether [insert owner or operator] may be liable as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(B) To any obligation to share damages with or repay another person who must pay damages because of the injury to persons identified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d) Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or entrustment to others of any aircraft, motor vehicle or watercraft.
(e) Property damage to:
(1) Any property owned, rented, or occupied by [insert owner or operator];
(2) Premises that are sold, given away or abandoned by [insert owner or operator] if the property damage arises out of any part of those premises;
(3) Property loaned to [insert owner or operator];
(4) Personal property in the care, custody or control of [insert owner or operator];
(5) That particular part of real property on which [insert owner or operator] or any contractors or subcontractors working directly or indirectly on behalf of [insert owner or operator] are performing operations, if the property damage arises out of these operations.
5. Guarantor agrees that if, at the end of any fiscal year before termination of this guarantee, the guarantor fails to meet the financial test criteria, guarantor shall send within 90 days, by certified mail, notice to the EPA Regional Administrator[s] for the Region[s] in which the facility[ies] is[are] located and to [owner or operator] that he intends to provide alternate liability coverage as specified in
40 CFR 261.147
, as applicable, in the name of [owner or operator]. Within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year, the guarantor shall establish such liability coverage unless [owner or operator] has done so.
6. The guarantor agrees to notify the EPA Regional Administrator by certified mail of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming guarantor as debtor, within 10 days after commencement of the proceeding. Guarantor agrees that within 30 days after being notified by an EPA Regional Administrator of a determination that guarantor no longer meets the financial test criteria or that he is disallowed from continuing as a guarantor, he shall establish alternate liability coverage as specified in
40 CFR 261.147
in the name of [owner or operator], unless [owner or operator] has done so.
7. Guarantor reserves the right to modify this agreement to take into account amendment or modification of the liability requirements set by
40 CFR 261.147
, provided that such modification shall become effective only if a Regional Administrator does not disapprove the modification within 30 days of receipt of notification of the modification.
8. Guarantor agrees to remain bound under this guarantee for so long as [owner or operator] must comply with the applicable requirements of
40 CFR 261.147
for the above-
listed facility(ies), except as provided in paragraph 9 of this agreement.
9. [Insert the following language if the guarantor is (a) a direct or higher-tier corporate parent, or (b) a firm whose parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator]:
Guarantor may terminate this guarantee by sending notice by certified mail to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located and to [owner or operator], provided that this guarantee may not be terminated unless and until [the owner or operator] obtains, and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) approve(s), alternate liability coverage complying with
40 CFR 261.147
.
[Insert the following language if the guarantor is a firm qualifying as a guarantor due to its “substantial business relationship” with the owner or operator]:
Guarantor may terminate this guarantee 120 days following receipt of notification, through certified mail, by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located and by [the owner or operator].
10. Guarantor hereby expressly waives notice of acceptance of this guarantee by any party.
11. Guarantor agrees that this guarantee is in addition to and does not affect any other responsibility or liability of the guarantor with respect to the covered facilities.
12. The Guarantor shall satisfy a third-party liability claim only on receipt of one of the following documents:
(a) Certification from the Principal and the third-party claimant(s) that the liability claim should be paid. The certification must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Certification of Valid Claim
The undersigned, as parties [insert Principal] and [insert name and address of third-party claimant(s)], hereby certify that the claim of bodily injury and/or property damage caused by a [sudden or nonsudden] accidental occurrence arising from operating [Principal's] facility should be paid in the amount of $.
[Signatures]
Principal
(Notary) Date
[Signatures]
Claimant(s)
(Notary) Date
(b) A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the Principal for bodily injury or property damage caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from the operation of the Principal's facility or group of facilities.
13. In the event of combination of this guarantee with another mechanism to meet liability requirements, this guarantee will be considered [insert “primary” or “excess”] coverage.
I hereby certify that the wording of the guarantee is identical to the wording specified in
40 CFR 261.151(g)(2)
as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
Effective date:
[Name of guarantor]
[Authorized signature for guarantor]
[Name of person signing]
[Title of person signing]
Signature of witness or notary:
(h) A hazardous waste facility liability endorsement as required § 261.147 must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Hazardous Secondary Material Reclamation/Intermediate Facility Liability Endorsement
1. This endorsement certifies that the policy to which the endorsement is attached provides liability insurance covering bodily injury and property damage in connection with the insured's obligation to demonstrate financial responsibility under 40 CFR 261.147. The coverage applies at [list EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address for each facility] for [insert “sudden accidental occurrences,” “nonsudden accidental occurrences,” or “sudden and nonsudden accidental occurrences”; if coverage is for multiple facilities and the coverage is different for different facilities, indicate which facilities are insured for sudden accidental occurrences, which are insured for nonsudden accidental occurrences, and which are insured for both]. The limits of liability are [insert the dollar amount of the “each occurrence” and “annual aggregate” limits of the Insurer's liability], exclusive of legal defense costs.
2. The insurance afforded with respect to such occurrences is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the policy; provided, however, that any provisions of the policy inconsistent with subsections (a) through (e) of this Paragraph 2 are hereby amended to conform with subsections (a) through (e):
(a) Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured shall not relieve the Insurer of its obligations under the policy to which this endorsement is attached.
(b) The Insurer is liable for the payment of amounts within any deductible applicable to the policy, with a right of reimbursement by the insured for any such payment made by the Insurer. This provision does not apply
with respect to that amount of any deductible for which coverage is demonstrated as specified in 40 CFR 261.147(f).
(c) Whenever requested by a Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Insurer agrees to furnish to the Regional Administrator a signed duplicate original of the policy and all endorsements.
(d) Cancellation of this endorsement, whether by the Insurer, the insured, a parent corporation providing insurance coverage for its subsidiary, or by a firm having an insurable interest in and obtaining liability insurance on behalf of the owner or operator of the facility, will be effective only upon written notice and only after the expiration of 60 days after a copy of such written notice is received by the Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located.
(e) Any other termination of this endorsement will be effective only upon written notice and only after the expiration of thirty (30) days after a copy of such written notice is received by the Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is (are) located.
Attached to and forming part of policy No. ____ issued by [name of Insurer], herein called the Insurer, of [address of Insurer] to [name of insured] of [address] this ________________ day of ________________, 19____. The effective date of said policy is ________________ day of ________________, 19____.
I hereby certify that the wording of this endorsement is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(h) as such regulation was constituted on the date first above written, and that the Insurer is licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
[Signature of Authorized Representative of Insurer]
[Type name]
[Title], Authorized Representative of [name of Insurer]
[Address of Representative]
(i) A certificate of liability insurance as required in § 261.147 must be worded as follows, except that the instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Hazardous Secondary Material Reclamation/Intermediate Facility Certificate of Liability Insurance
1. [Name of Insurer], (the “Insurer”), of [address of Insurer] hereby certifies that it has issued liability insurance covering bodily injury and property damage to [name of insured], (the “insured”), of [address of insured] in connection with the insured's obligation to demonstrate financial responsibility under 40 CFR parts 264, 265, and the financial assurance condition of 40 CFR 261.4(a)(24)(vi)(F). The coverage applies at [list EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address for each facility] for [insert “sudden accidental occurrences,” “nonsudden accidental occurrences,” or “sudden and nonsudden accidental occurrences”; if coverage is for multiple facilities and the coverage is different for different facilities, indicate which facilities are insured for sudden accidental occurrences, which are insured for nonsudden accidental occurrences, and which are insured for both]. The limits of liability are [insert the dollar amount of the “each occurrence” and “annual aggregate” limits of the Insurer's liability], exclusive of legal defense costs. The coverage is provided under policy number, issued on [date]. The effective date of said policy is [date].
2. The Insurer further certifies the following with respect to the insurance described in Paragraph 1:
(a) Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured shall not relieve the Insurer of its obligations under the policy.
(b) The Insurer is liable for the payment of amounts within any deductible applicable to the policy, with a right of reimbursement by the insured for any such payment made by the Insurer. This provision does not apply with respect to that amount of any deductible for which coverage is demonstrated as specified in 40 CFR 261.147.
(c) Whenever requested by a Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Insurer agrees to furnish to the Regional Administrator a signed duplicate original of the policy and all endorsements.
(d) Cancellation of the insurance, whether by the insurer, the insured, a parent corporation providing insurance coverage for its subsidiary, or by a firm having an insurable interest in and obtaining liability insurance on behalf of the owner or operator of the hazardous waste management facility, will be effective only upon written notice and only after the expiration of 60 days after a copy of such written notice is received by the Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is(are) located.
(e) Any other termination of the insurance will be effective only upon written notice and only after the expiration of thirty (30) days after a copy of such written notice is received by the Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is (are) located.
I hereby certify that the wording of this instrument is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(i) as such regulation was constituted on the date first above written, and that the Insurer is licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or
surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
[Signature of authorized representative of Insurer]
[Type name]
[Title], Authorized Representative of [name of Insurer]
[Address of Representative]
(j) A letter of credit, as specified in § 261.147(h) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
Name and Address of Issuing Institution
Regional Administrator(s)
Region(s)
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Dear Sir or Madam: We hereby establish our Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit No. ________----- in the favor of [”any and all third-party liability claimants” or insert name of trustee of the standby trust fund], at the request and for the account of [owner or operator's name and address] for third-party liability awards or settlements up to [in words] U.S. dollars $________----- per occurrence and the annual aggregate amount of [in words] U.S. dollars $__—, for sudden accidental occurrences and/or for third-party liability awards or settlements up to the amount of [in words] U.S. dollars $________----- per occurrence, and the annual aggregate amount of [in words] U.S. dollars $________-----, for nonsudden accidental occurrences available upon presentation of a sight draft bearing reference to this letter of credit No. ________-----, and [insert the following language if the letter of credit is being used without a standby trust fund: (1) a signed certificate reading as follows:

# Certificate of Valid Claim
The undersigned, as parties [insert principal] and [insert name and address of third party claimant(s)], hereby certify that the claim of bodily injury and/or property damage caused by a [sudden or nonsudden] accidental occurrence arising from operations of [principal's] facility should be paid in the amount of $[ ]. We hereby certify that the claim does not apply to any of the following:
(a) Bodily injury or property damage for which [insert principal] is obligated to pay damages by reason of the assumption of liability in a contract or agreement. This exclusion does not apply to liability for damages that [insert principal] would be obligated to pay in the absence of the contract or agreement.
(b) Any obligation of [insert principal] under a workers' compensation, disability benefits, or unemployment compensation law or any similar law.
(c) Bodily injury to:
(1) An employee of [insert principal] arising from, and in the course of, employment by [insert principal]; or
(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that employee as a consequence of, or arising from, and in the course of employment by [insert principal].
This exclusion applies:
(A) Whether [insert principal] may be liable as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(B) To any obligation to share damages with or repay another person who must pay damages because of the injury to persons identified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d) Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or entrustment to others of any aircraft, motor vehicle or watercraft.
(e) Property damage to:
(1) Any property owned, rented, or occupied by [insert principal];
(2) Premises that are sold, given away or abandoned by [insert principal] if the property damage arises out of any part of those premises;
(3) Property loaned to [insert principal];
(4) Personal property in the care, custody or control of [insert principal];
(5) That particular part of real property on which [insert principal] or any contractors or subcontractors working directly or indirectly on behalf of [insert principal] are performing operations, if the property damage arises out of these operations.
[Signatures]
Grantor
[Signatures]
Claimant(s)
or (2) a valid final court order establishing a judgment against the Grantor for bodily injury or property damage caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from the operation of the Grantor's facility or group of facilities.]
This letter of credit is effective as of [date] and shall expire on [date at least one year later], but such expiration date shall be automatically extended for a period of [at least one year] on [date and on each successive expiration date, unless, at least 120 days before the current expiration date, we notify you, the USEPA Regional Administrator for Region [Region], and [owner's or operator's name] by certified mail that we have decided not to extend this letter of credit beyond the current expiration date.
Whenever this letter of credit is drawn on under and in compliance with the terms of this credit, we shall duly honor such draft upon presentation to us.
[Insert the following language if a standby trust fund is not being used: “In the event that this letter of credit is used in combination with another mechanism for liability
coverage, this letter of credit shall be considered [insert “primary” or “excess” coverage].”
We certify that the wording of this letter of credit is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(j) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below. [Signature(s) and title(s) of official(s) of issuing institution] [Date].
This credit is subject to [insert “the most recent edition of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, published and copyrighted by the International Chamber of Commerce,” or “the Uniform Commercial Code”].
(k) A surety bond, as specified in Sec. 261.147(i) of this chapter, must be worded as follows: except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Payment Bond
Surety Bond No. [Insert number]
Parties [Insert name and address of owner or operator], Principal, incorporated in [Insert State of incorporation] of [Insert city and State of principal place of business] and [Insert name and address of surety company(ies)], Surety Company(ies), of [Insert surety(ies) place of business].
EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address for each facility guaranteed by this bond: ____

# Nonsudden

# Sudden accidental

# accidental

# occurrences

# occurrences
Penal Sum Per Occurrence
[insert amount]
[insert amount]
Annual Aggregate
[insert amount]
[insert amount]
Purpose: This is an agreement between the Surety(ies) and the Principal under which the Surety(ies), its(their) successors and assignees, agree to be responsible for the payment of claims against the Principal for bodily injury and/or property damage to third parties caused by [“sudden” and/or “nonsudden”] accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities in the sums prescribed herein; subject to the governing provisions and the following conditions.
Governing Provisions:
(1) Section 3004 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended.
(2) Rules and regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), particularly 40 CFR parts 264, 265, and Subpart H of 40 CFR part 261 (if applicable).
(3) Rules and regulations of the governing State agency (if applicable) [insert citation].
Conditions:
(1) The Principal is subject to the applicable governing provisions that require the Principal to have and maintain liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage to third parties caused by [“sudden” and/or “nonsudden”] accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities. Such obligation does not apply to any of the following:
(a) Bodily injury or property damage for which [insert Principal] is obligated to pay damages by reason of the assumption of liability in a contract or agreement. This exclusion does not apply to liability for damages that [insert Principal] would be obligated to pay in the absence of the contract or agreement.
(b) Any obligation of [insert Principal] under a workers' compensation, disability benefits, or unemployment compensation law or similar law.
(c) Bodily injury to:
(1) An employee of [insert Principal] arising from, and in the course of, employment by [insert principal]; or
(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that employee as a consequence of, or arising from, and in the course of employment by [insert Principal]. This exclusion applies:
(A) Whether [insert Principal] may be liable as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(B) To any obligation to share damages with or repay another person who must pay damages because of the injury to persons identified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d) Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or entrustment to others of any aircraft, motor vehicle or watercraft.
(e) Property damage to:
(1) Any property owned, rented, or occupied by [insert Principal];
(2) Premises that are sold, given away or abandoned by [insert Principal] if the property damage arises out of any part of those premises;
(3) Property loaned to [insert Principal];
(4) Personal property in the care, custody or control of [insert Principal];
(5) That particular part of real property on which [insert Principal] or any contractors or subcontractors working directly or indirectly on behalf of [insert Principal] are performing operations, if the property damage arises out of these operations.
(2) This bond assures that the Principal will satisfy valid third party liability claims, as described in condition 1.
(3) If the Principal fails to satisfy a valid third party liability claim, as described above, the Surety(ies) becomes liable on this bond obligation.
(4) The Surety(ies) shall satisfy a third party liability claim only upon the receipt of one of the following documents:
(a) Certification from the Principal and the third party claimant(s) that the liability claim should be paid. The certification must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Certification of Valid Claim
The undersigned, as parties [insert name of Principal] and [insert name and address of third party claimant(s)], hereby certify that the claim of bodily injury and/or property damage caused by a [sudden or nonsudden] accidental occurrence arising from operating [Principal's] facility should be paid in the amount of $[ ].
[Signature]
Principal
[Notary] Date
[Signature(s)]
Claimant(s)
[Notary] Date
or (b) A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the Principal for bodily injury or property damage caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from the operation of the Principal's facility or group of facilities.
(5) In the event of combination of this bond with another mechanism for liability coverage, this bond will be considered [insert “primary” or “excess”] coverage.
(6) The liability of the Surety(ies) shall not be discharged by any payment or succession of payments hereunder, unless and until such payment or payments shall amount in the aggregate to the penal sum of the bond. In no event shall the obligation of the Surety(ies) hereunder exceed the amount of said annual aggregate penal sum, provided that the Surety(ies) furnish(es) notice to the Regional Administrator forthwith of all claims filed and payments made by the Surety(ies) under this bond.
(7) The Surety(ies) may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the Principal and the USEPA Regional Administrator for Region [Region ], provided, however, that cancellation shall not occur during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by the Principal and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipt.
(8) The Principal may terminate this bond by sending written notice to the Surety(ies) and to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the bonded facility(ies) is (are) located.
(9) The Surety(ies) hereby waive(s) notification of amendments to applicable laws, statutes, rules and regulations and agree(s) that no such amendment shall in any way alleviate its (their) obligation on this bond.
(10) This bond is effective from [insert date] (12:01 a.m., standard time, at the address of the Principal as stated herein) and shall continue in force until terminated as described above.
In Witness Whereof, the Principal and Surety(ies) have executed this Bond and have affixed their seals on the date set forth above.
The persons whose signatures appear below hereby certify that they are authorized to execute this surety bond on behalf of the Principal and Surety(ies) and that the wording of this surety bond is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(k), as such regulations were constituted on the date this bond was executed.

# PRINCIPAL
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s)]
[Title(s)]
[Corporate Seal]

# CORPORATE SURETY[IES]
[Name and address]
State of incorporation:
Liability Limit: $
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s) and title(s)]
[Corporate seal]
[For every co-surety, provide signature(s), corporate seal, and other information in the same manner as for Surety above.]
Bond premium: $
(l)(1) A trust agreement, as specified in § 261.147(j) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Trust Agreement
Trust Agreement, the “Agreement,” entered into as of [date] by and between [name of the owner or operator] a [name of State]
[insert “corporation,” “partnership,” “association,” or “proprietorship”], the “Grantor,” and [name of corporate trustee], [insert, “incorporated in the State of ________” or “a national bank”], the “trustee.”
Whereas, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, “EPA,” an agency of the United States Government, has established certain regulations applicable to the Grantor, requiring that an owner or operator must demonstrate financial responsibility for bodily injury and property damage to third parties caused by sudden accidental and/or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities.
Whereas, the Grantor has elected to establish a trust to assure all or part of such financial responsibility for the facilities identified herein.
Whereas, the Grantor, acting through its duly authorized officers, has selected the Trustee to be the trustee under this agreement, and the Trustee is willing to act as trustee.
Now, therefore, the Grantor and the Trustee agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement:
(a) The term “Grantor” means the owner or operator who enters into this Agreement and any successors or assigns of the Grantor.
(b) The term “Trustee” means the Trustee who enters into this Agreement and any successor Trustee.
Section 2. Identification of Facilities. This agreement pertains to the facilities identified on attached schedule A [on schedule A, for each facility list the EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address of the facility(ies) and the amount of liability coverage, or portions thereof, if more than one instrument affords combined coverage as demonstrated by this Agreement].
Section 3. Establishment of Fund. The Grantor and the Trustee hereby establish a trust fund, hereinafter the “Fund,” for the benefit of any and all third parties injured or damaged by [sudden and/or nonsudden] accidental occurrences arising from operation of the facility(ies) covered by this guarantee, in the amounts of ________-[up to $1 million] per occurrence and [up to $2 million] annual aggregate for sudden accidental occurrences and ________ [up to $3 million] per occurrence and ________-[up to $6 million] annual aggregate for nonsudden occurrences, except that the Fund is not established for the benefit of third parties for the following:
(a) Bodily injury or property damage for which [insert Grantor] is obligated to pay damages by reason of the assumption of liability in a contract or agreement. This exclusion does not apply to liability for damages that [insert Grantor] would be obligated to pay in the absence of the contract or agreement.
(b) Any obligation of [insert Grantor] under a workers' compensation, disability benefits, or unemployment compensation law or any similar law.
(c) Bodily injury to:
(1) An employee of [insert Grantor] arising from, and in the course of, employment by [insert Grantor]; or
(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that employee as a consequence of, or arising from, and in the course of employment by [insert Grantor]. This exclusion applies:
(A) Whether [insert Grantor] may be liable as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(B) To any obligation to share damages with or repay another person who must pay damages because of the injury to persons identified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d) Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or entrustment to others of any aircraft, motor vehicle or watercraft.
(e) Property damage to:
(1) Any property owned, rented, or occupied by [insert Grantor];
(2) Premises that are sold, given away or abandoned by [insert Grantor] if the property damage arises out of any part of those premises;
(3) Property loaned to [insert Grantor];
(4) Personal property in the care, custody or control of [insert Grantor];
(5) That particular part of real property on which [insert Grantor] or any contractors or subcontractors working directly or indirectly on behalf of [insert Grantor] are performing operations, if the property damage arises out of these operations.
In the event of combination with another mechanism for liability coverage, the Fund shall be considered [insert “primary” or “excess”] coverage.
The Fund is established initially as consisting of the property, which is acceptable to the Trustee, described in Schedule B attached hereto. Such property and any other property subsequently transferred to the Trustee is referred to as the Fund, together with all earnings and profits thereon, less any payments or distributions made by the Trustee pursuant to this Agreement. The Fund shall be held by the Trustee, IN TRUST, as hereinafter provided. The Trustee shall not be responsible nor shall it undertake any responsibility for the amount or adequacy of, nor any duty to collect from the Grantor, any payments necessary to discharge any liabilities of the Grantor established by EPA.
Section 4. Payment for Bodily Injury or Property Damage. The Trustee shall satisfy a third party liability claim by making payments from the Fund only upon receipt of one of the following documents;
(a) Certification from the Grantor and the third party claimant(s) that the liability
claim should be paid. The certification must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Certification of Valid Claim
The undersigned, as parties [insert Grantor] and [insert name and address of third party claimant(s)], hereby certify that the claim of bodily injury and/or property damage caused by a [sudden or nonsudden] accidental occurrence arising from operating [Grantor's] facility or group of facilities should be paid in the amount of $[ ].
[Signatures]
Grantor
[Signatures]
Claimant(s)
(b) A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the Grantor for bodily injury or property damage caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from the operation of the Grantor's facility or group of facilities.
Section 5. Payments Comprising the Fund. Payments made to the Trustee for the Fund shall consist of cash or securities acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 6. Trustee Management. The Trustee shall invest and reinvest the principal and income, in accordance with general investment policies and guidelines which the Grantor may communicate in writing to the Trustee from time to time, subject, however, to the provisions of this section. In investing, reinvesting, exchanging, selling, and managing the Fund, the Trustee shall discharge his duties with respect to the trust fund solely in the interest of the beneficiary and with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstance then prevailing which persons of prudence, acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters, would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; except that:
(i) Securities or other obligations of the Grantor, or any other owner or operator of the facilities, or any of their affiliates as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2.(a), shall not be acquired or held unless they are securities or other obligations of the Federal or a State government;
(ii) The Trustee is authorized to invest the Fund in time or demand deposits of the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(iii) The Trustee is authorized to hold cash awaiting investment or distribution uninvested for a reasonable time and without liability for the payment of interest thereon.
Section 7. Commingling and Investment. The Trustee is expressly authorized in its discretion:
(a) To transfer from time to time any or all of the assets of the Fund to any common commingled, or collective trust fund created by the Trustee in which the fund is eligible to participate, subject to all of the provisions thereof, to be commingled with the assets of other trusts participating therein; and
(b) To purchase shares in any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 81a-1
et seq.,
including one which may be created, managed, underwritten, or to which investment advice is rendered or the shares of which are sold by the Trustee. The Trustee may vote such shares in its discretion.
Section 8. Express Powers of Trustee. Without in any way limiting the powers and discretions conferred upon the Trustee by the other provisions of this Agreement or by law, the Trustee is expressly authorized and empowered:
(a) To sell, exchange, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any property held by it, by public or private sale. No person dealing with the Trustee shall be bound to see to the application of the purchase money or to inquire into the validity or expediency of any such sale or other disposition;
(b) To make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all documents of transfer and conveyance and any and all other instruments that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers herein granted;
(c) To register any securities held in the Fund in its own name or in the name of a nominee and to hold any security in bearer form or in book entry, or to combine certificates representing such securities with certificates of the same issue held by the Trustee in other fiduciary capacities, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of such securities in a qualified central depository even though, when so deposited, such securities may be merged and held in bulk in the name of the nominee of such depository with other securities deposited therein by another person, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of any securities issued by the United States Government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, with a Federal Reserve bank, but the books and records of the Trustee shall at all times show that all such securities are part of the Fund;
(d) To deposit any cash in the Fund in interest-bearing accounts maintained or savings certificates issued by the Trustee, in its separate corporate capacity, or in any other banking institution affiliated with the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(e) To compromise or otherwise adjust all claims in favor of or against the Fund.
Section 9. Taxes and Expenses. All taxes of any kind that may be assessed or levied against or in respect of the Fund and all brokerage commissions incurred by the Fund
shall be paid from the Fund. All other expenses incurred by the Trustee in connection with the administration of this Trust, including fees for legal services rendered to the Trustee, the compensation of the Trustee to the extent not paid directly by the Grantor, and all other proper charges and disbursements of the Trustee shall be paid from the Fund.
Section 10. Annual Valuations. The Trustee shall annually, at least 30 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund, furnish to the Grantor and to the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator a statement confirming the value of the Trust. Any securities in the Fund shall be valued at market value as of no more than 60 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund. The failure of the Grantor to object in writing to the Trustee within 90 days after the statement has been furnished to the Grantor and the EPA Regional Administrator shall constitute a conclusively binding assent by the Grantor barring the Grantor from asserting any claim or liability against the Trustee with respect to matters disclosed in the statement.
Section 11. Advice of Counsel. The Trustee may from time to time consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Grantor with respect to any question arising as to the construction of this Agreement or any action to be taken hereunder. The Trustee shall be fully protected, to the extent permitted by law, in acting upon the advice of counsel.
Section 12. Trustee Compensation. The Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed upon in writing from time to time with the Grantor.
Section 13. Successor Trustee. The Trustee may resign or the Grantor may replace the Trustee, but such resignation or replacement shall not be effective until the Grantor has appointed a successor trustee and this successor accepts the appointment. The successor trustee shall have the same powers and duties as those conferred upon the Trustee hereunder. Upon the successor trustee's acceptance of the appointment, the Trustee shall assign, transfer, and pay over to the successor trustee the funds and properties then constituting the Fund. If for any reason the Grantor cannot or does not act in the event of the resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee or for instructions. The successor trustee shall specify the date on which it assumes administration of the trust in a writing sent to the Grantor, the EPA Regional Administrator, and the present Trustee by certified mail 10 days before such change becomes effective. Any expenses incurred by the Trustee as a result of any of the acts contemplated by this section shall be paid as provided in Section 9.
Section 14. Instructions to the Trustee. All orders, requests, and instructions by the Grantor to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by such persons as are designated in the attached Exhibit A or such other designees as the Grantor may designate by amendments to Exhibit A. The Trustee shall be fully protected in acting without inquiry in accordance with the Grantor's orders, requests, and instructions. All orders, requests, and instructions by the EPA Regional Administrator to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by the EPA Regional Administrators of the Regions in which the facilities are located, or their designees, and the Trustee shall act and shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such orders, requests, and instructions. The Trustee shall have the right to assume, in the absence of written notice to the contrary, that no event constituting a change or a termination of the authority of any person to act on behalf of the Grantor or EPA hereunder has occurred. The Trustee shall have no duty to act in the absence of such orders, requests, and instructions from the Grantor and/or EPA, except as provided for herein.
Section 15. Notice of Nonpayment. If a payment for bodily injury or property damage is made under Section 4 of this trust, the Trustee shall notify the Grantor of such payment and the amount(s) thereof within five (5) working days. The Grantor shall, on or before the anniversary date of the establishment of the Fund following such notice, either make payments to the Trustee in amounts sufficient to cause the trust to return to its value immediately prior to the payment of claims under Section 4, or shall provide written proof to the Trustee that other financial assurance for liability coverage has been obtained equaling the amount necessary to return the trust to its value prior to the payment of claims. If the Grantor does not either make payments to the Trustee or provide the Trustee with such proof, the Trustee shall within 10 working days after the anniversary date of the establishment of the Fund provide a written notice of nonpayment to the EPA Regional Administrator.
Section 16. Amendment of Agreement. This Agreement may be amended by an instrument in writing executed by the Grantor, the Trustee, and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator if the Grantor ceases to exist.
Section 17. Irrevocability and Termination. Subject to the right of the parties to amend this Agreement as provided in Section 16, this Trust shall be irrevocable and shall continue until terminated at the written agreement of the Grantor, the Trustee, and the EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the EPA Regional Administrator, if the Grantor ceases to exist. Upon
termination of the Trust, all remaining trust property, less final trust administration expenses, shall be delivered to the Grantor.
The Regional Administrator will agree to termination of the Trust when the owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.
Section 18. Immunity and Indemnification. The Trustee shall not incur personal liability of any nature in connection with any act or omission, made in good faith, in the administration of this Trust, or in carrying out any directions by the Grantor or the EPA Regional Administrator issued in accordance with this Agreement. The Trustee shall be indemnified and saved harmless by the Grantor or from the Trust Fund, or both, from and against any personal liability to which the Trustee may be subjected by reason of any act or conduct in its official capacity, including all expenses reasonably incurred in its defense in the event the Grantor fails to provide such defense.
Section 19. Choice of Law. This Agreement shall be administered, construed, and enforced according to the laws of the State of [enter name of State].
Section 20. Interpretation. As used in this Agreement, words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular. The descriptive headings for each section of this Agreement shall not affect the interpretation or the legal efficacy of this Agreement.
In Witness Whereof the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers duly authorized and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested as of the date first above written. The parties below certify that the wording of this Agreement is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(l) as such regulations were constituted on the date first above written.

# [Signature of Grantor]

# [Title]
Attest:

# [Title]

# [Seal]

# [Signature of Trustee]
Attest:

# [Title]

# [Seal]
(2) The following is an example of the certification of acknowledgement which must accompany the trust agreement for a trust fund as specified in § 261.147(j). State requirements may differ on the proper content of this acknowledgement.
State of
County of
On this [date], before me personally came [owner or operator] to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she/he resides at [address], that she/he is [title] of [corporation], the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument; that she/he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to such instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that she/he signed her/his name thereto by like order.
[Signature of Notary Public]
(m)(1) A standby trust agreement, as specified in § 261.147(h) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Standby Trust Agreement
Trust Agreement, the “Agreement,” entered into as of [date] by and between [name of the owner or operator] a [name of a State] [insert “corporation,” “partnership,” “association,” or “proprietorship”], the “Grantor,” and [name of corporate trustee], [insert, “incorporated in the State of ________________” or “a national bank”], the “trustee.”
Whereas the United States Environmental Protection Agency, “EPA,” an agency of the United States Government, has established certain regulations applicable to the Grantor, requiring that an owner or operator must demonstrate financial responsibility for bodily injury and property damage to third parties caused by sudden accidental and/or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from operations of the facility or group of facilities.
Whereas, the Grantor has elected to establish a standby trust into which the proceeds from a letter of credit may be deposited to assure all or part of such financial responsibility for the facilities identified herein.
Whereas, the Grantor, acting through its duly authorized officers, has selected the Trustee to be the trustee under this agreement, and the Trustee is willing to act as trustee.
Now, therefore, the Grantor and the Trustee agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement:
(a) The term Grantor means the owner or operator who enters into this Agreement and any successors or assigns of the Grantor.
(b) The term Trustee means the Trustee who enters into this Agreement and any successor Trustee.
Section 2. Identification of Facilities. This Agreement pertains to the facilities identified on attached schedule A [on schedule A, for each facility list the EPA Identification Number (if any issued), name, and address of the facility(ies) and the amount of liability coverage, or portions thereof, if more than one instrument affords combined coverage as demonstrated by this Agreement].
Section 3. Establishment of Fund. The Grantor and the Trustee hereby establish a standby trust fund, hereafter the “Fund,” for the benefit of any and all third parties injured or damaged by [sudden and/or nonsudden] accidental occurrences arising from operation of the facility(ies) covered by this guarantee, in the amounts of ________-[up to $1 million] per occurrence and ________-[up to $2 million] annual aggregate for sudden accidental occurrences and ________-[up to $3 million] per occurrence and ________-[up to $6 million] annual aggregate for nonsudden occurrences, except that the Fund is not established for the benefit of third parties for the following:
(a) Bodily injury or property damage for which [insert Grantor] is obligated to pay damages by reason of the assumption of liability in a contract or agreement. This exclusion does not apply to liability for damages that [insert Grantor] would be obligated to pay in the absence of the contract or agreement.
(b) Any obligation of [insert Grantor] under a workers' compensation, disability benefits, or unemployment compensation law or any similar law.
(c) Bodily injury to:
(1) An employee of [insert Grantor] arising from, and in the course of, employment by [insert Grantor]; or
(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that employee as a consequence of, or arising from, and in the course of employment by [insert Grantor].
This exclusion applies:
(A) Whether [insert Grantor] may be liable as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(B) To any obligation to share damages with or repay another person who must pay damages because of the injury to persons identified in paragraphs (1) and (2).
(d) Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or entrustment to others of any aircraft, motor vehicle or watercraft.
(e) Property damage to:
(1) Any property owned, rented, or occupied by [insert Grantor];
(2) Premises that are sold, given away or abandoned by [insert Grantor] if the property damage arises out of any part of those premises;
(3) Property loaned by [insert Grantor];
(4) Personal property in the care, custody or control of [insert Grantor];
(5) That particular part of real property on which [insert Grantor] or any contractors or subcontractors working directly or indirectly on behalf of [insert Grantor] are performing operations, if the property damage arises out of these operations.
In the event of combination with another mechanism for liability coverage, the Fund shall be considered [insert “primary” or “excess”] coverage.
The Fund is established initially as consisting of the proceeds of the letter of credit deposited into the Fund. Such proceeds and any other property subsequently transferred to the Trustee is referred to as the Fund, together with all earnings and profits thereon, less any payments or distributions made by the Trustee pursuant to this Agreement. The Fund shall be held by the Trustee, IN TRUST, as hereinafter provided. The Trustee shall not be responsible nor shall it undertake any responsibility for the amount or adequacy of, nor any duty to collect from the Grantor, any payments necessary to discharge any liabilities of the Grantor established by EPA.
Section 4. Payment for Bodily Injury or Property Damage. The Trustee shall satisfy a third party liability claim by drawing on the letter of credit described in Schedule B and by making payments from the Fund only upon receipt of one of the following documents:
(a) Certification from the Grantor and the third party claimant(s) that the liability claim should be paid. The certification must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Certification of Valid Claim
The undersigned, as parties [insert Grantor] and [insert name and address of third party claimant(s)], hereby certify that the claim of bodily injury and/or property damage caused by a [sudden or nonsudden] accidental occurrence arising from operating [Grantor's] facility should be paid in the amount of $[ ]
[Signature]
Grantor
[Signatures]
Claimant(s)
(b) A valid final court order establishing a judgment against the Grantor for bodily injury or property damage caused by sudden or nonsudden accidental occurrences arising from the operation of the Grantor's facility or group of facilities.
Section 5. Payments Comprising the Fund. Payments made to the Trustee for the Fund shall consist of the proceeds from the letter of credit drawn upon by the Trustee in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 261.151(k) and Section 4 of this Agreement.
Section 6. Trustee Management. The Trustee shall invest and reinvest the principal and income, in accordance with general investment policies and guidelines which the Grantor may communicate in writing to the Trustee from time to time, subject, however, to the provisions of this Section. In investing, reinvesting, exchanging, selling, and managing the Fund, the Trustee shall discharge his duties with respect to the trust fund solely in the interest of the beneficiary and with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters, would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; except that:
(i) Securities or other obligations of the Grantor, or any other owner or operator of the facilities, or any of their affiliates as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a), shall not be acquired or held, unless they are securities or other obligations of the Federal or a State government;
(ii) The Trustee is authorized to invest the Fund in time or demand deposits of the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or a State government; and
(iii) The Trustee is authorized to hold cash awaiting investment or distribution uninvested for a reasonable time and without liability for the payment of interest thereon.
Section 7. Commingling and Investment. The Trustee is expressly authorized in its discretion:
(a) To transfer from time to time any or all of the assets of the Fund to any common, commingled, or collective trust fund created by the Trustee in which the Fund is eligible to participate, subject to all of the provisions thereof, to be commingled with the assets of other trusts participating therein; and
(b) To purchase shares in any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.,
including one which may be created, managed, underwritten, or to which investment advice is rendered or the shares of which are sold by the Trustee. The Trustee may vote such shares in its discretion.
Section 8. Express Powers of Trustee. Without in any way limiting the powers and discretions conferred upon the Trustee by the other provisions of this Agreement or by law, the Trustee is expressly authorized and empowered:
(a) To sell, exchange, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any property held by it, by public or private sale. No person dealing with the Trustee shall be bound to see to the application of the purchase money or to inquire into the validity or expediency of any such sale or other disposition;
(b) To make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all documents of transfer and conveyance and any and all other instruments that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers herein granted;
(c) To register any securities held in the Fund in its own name or in the name of a nominee and to hold any security in bearer form or in book entry, or to combine certificates representing such securities with certificates of the same issue held by the Trustee in other fiduciary capacities, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of such securities in a qualified central depositary even though, when so deposited, such securities may be merged and held in bulk in the name of the nominee of such depositary with other securities deposited therein by another person, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of any securities issued by the United States Government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, with a Federal Reserve Bank, but the books and records of the Trustee shall at all times show that all such securities are part of the Fund;
(d) To deposit any cash in the Fund in interest-bearing accounts maintained or savings certificates issued by the Trustee, in its separate corporate capacity, or in any other banking institution affiliated with the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(e) To compromise or otherwise adjust all claims in favor of or against the Fund.
Section 9. Taxes and Expenses. All taxes of any kind that may be assessed or levied against or in respect of the Fund and all brokerage commissions incurred by the Fund shall be paid from the Fund. All other expenses incurred by the Trustee in connection with the administration of this Trust, including fees for legal services rendered to the Trustee, the compensation of the Trustee to the extent not paid directly by the Grantor, and all other proper charges and disbursements to the Trustee shall be paid from the Fund.
Section 10. Advice of Counsel. The Trustee may from time to time consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Grantor, with respect to any question arising as to the construction of this Agreement or any action to be taken hereunder. The Trustee shall be fully protected, to the extent permitted by law, in acting upon the advice of counsel.
Section 11. Trustee Compensation. The Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed upon in writing from time to time with the Grantor.
Section 12. Successor Trustee. The Trustee may resign or the Grantor may replace the Trustee, but such resignation or replacement shall not be effective until the Grantor has appointed a successor trustee and this successor accepts the appointment. The successor trustee shall have the same powers and duties as those conferred upon the
Trustee hereunder. Upon the successor trustee's acceptance of the appointment, the Trustee shall assign, transfer, and pay over to the successor trustee the funds and properties then constituting the Fund. If for any reason the Grantor cannot or does not act in the event of the resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee or for instructions. The successor trustee shall specify the date on which it assumes administration of the trust in a writing sent to the Grantor, the EPA Regional Administrator and the present Trustee by certified mail 10 days before such change becomes effective. Any expenses incurred by the Trustee as a result of any of the acts contemplated by this Section shall be paid as provided in Section 9.
Section 13. Instructions to the Trustee. All orders, requests, certifications of valid claims, and instructions to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by such persons as are designated in the attached Exhibit A or such other designees as the Grantor may designate by amendments to Exhibit A. The Trustee shall be fully protected in acting without inquiry in accordance with the Grantor's orders, requests, and instructions. The Trustee shall have the right to assume, in the absence of written notice to the contrary, that no event constituting a change or a termination of the authority of any person to act on behalf of the Grantor or the EPA Regional Administrator hereunder has occurred. The Trustee shall have no duty to act in the absence of such orders, requests, and instructions from the Grantor and/or EPA, except as provided for herein.
Section 14. Amendment of Agreement. This Agreement may be amended by an instrument in writing executed by the Grantor, the Trustee, and the EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the EPA Regional Administrator if the Grantor ceases to exist.
Section 15. Irrevocability and Termination. Subject to the right of the parties to amend this Agreement as provided in Section 14, this Trust shall be irrevocable and shall continue until terminated at the written agreement of the Grantor, the Trustee, and the EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the EPA Regional Administrator, if the Grantor ceases to exist. Upon termination of the Trust, all remaining trust property, less final trust administration expenses, shall be paid to the Grantor.
The Regional Administrator will agree to termination of the Trust when the owner or operator substitutes alternative financial assurance as specified in this section.
Section 16. Immunity and indemnification. The Trustee shall not incur personal liability of any nature in connection with any act or omission, made in good faith, in the administration of this Trust, or in carrying out any directions by the Grantor and the EPA Regional Administrator issued in accordance with this Agreement. The Trustee shall be indemnified and saved harmless by the Grantor or from the Trust Fund, or both, from and against any personal liability to which the Trustee may be subjected by reason of any act or conduct in its official capacity, including all expenses reasonably incurred in its defense in the event the Grantor fails to provide such defense.
Section 17. Choice of Law. This Agreement shall be administered, construed, and enforced according to the laws of the State of [enter name of State].
Section 18. Interpretation. As used in this Agreement, words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular. The descriptive headings for each Section of this Agreement shall not affect the interpretation of the legal efficacy of this Agreement.
In Witness Whereof the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers duly authorized and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested as of the date first above written. The parties below certify that the wording of this Agreement is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 261.151(m) as such regulations were constituted on the date first above written.
[Signature of Grantor]
[Title]
Attest:
[Title]
[Seal]
[Signature of Trustee]
Attest:
[Title]
[Seal]
(2) The following is an example of the certification of acknowledgement which must accompany the trust agreement for a standby trust fund as specified in section 261.147(h) of this chapter. State requirements may differ on the proper content of this acknowledgement.
State of
County of
On this [date], before me personally came [owner or operator] to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she/he resides at [address], that she/he is [title] of [corporation], the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument; that she/he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to such instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that she/he signed her/ his name thereto by like order.

# [Signature of Notary Public]
[73 FR 64764, Oct. 30, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 54101, Aug. 9, 2023]

# Subpart I—Use and Management of Containers

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.170
Applicability.
This subpart applies to hazardous secondary materials excluded under the remanufacturing exclusion at § 261.4(a)(27) and stored in containers.
§ 261.171
Condition of containers.
If a container holding hazardous secondary material is not in good condition (
e.g.,
severe rusting, apparent structural defects) or if it begins to leak, the hazardous secondary material must be transferred from this container to a container that is in good condition or managed in some other way that complies with the requirements of this part.
§ 261.172
Compatibility of hazardous secondary materials with containers.
The container must be made of or lined with materials which will not react with, and are otherwise compatible with, the hazardous secondary material to be stored, so that the ability of the container to contain the material is not impaired.
§ 261.173
Management of containers.
(a) A container holding hazardous secondary material must always be closed during storage, except when it is necessary to add or remove the hazardous secondary material.
(b) A container holding hazardous secondary material must not be opened, handled, or stored in a manner which may rupture the container or cause it to leak.
§ 261.175
Containment.
(a) Container storage areas must have a containment system that is designed and operated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A containment system must be designed and operated as follows:
(1) A base must underlie the containers which is free of cracks or gaps and is sufficiently impervious to contain leaks, spills, and accumulated precipitation until the collected material is detected and removed;
(2) The base must be sloped or the containment system must be otherwise designed and operated to drain and remove liquids resulting from leaks, spills, or precipitation, unless the containers are elevated or are otherwise protected from contact with accumulated liquids;
(3) The containment system must have sufficient capacity to contain 10% of the volume of containers or the volume of the largest container, whichever is greater.
(4) Run-on into the containment system must be prevented unless the collection system has sufficient excess capacity in addition to that required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to contain any run-on which might enter the system; and
(5) Spilled or leaked material and accumulated precipitation must be removed from the sump or collection area in as timely a manner as is necessary to prevent overflow of the collection system.
§ 261.176
Special requirements for ignitable or reactive hazardous secondary material.
Containers holding ignitable or reactive hazardous secondary material must be located at least 15 meters (50 feet) from the facility's property line.
§ 261.177
Special requirements for incompatible materials.
(a) Incompatible materials must not be placed in the same container.
(b) Hazardous secondary material must not be placed in an unwashed container that previously held an incompatible material.
(c) A storage container holding a hazardous secondary material that is incompatible with any other materials stored nearby must be separated from the other materials or protected from them by means of a dike, berm, wall, or other device.
§ 261.179
Air emission standards.
The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall manage all hazardous secondary material placed in a container in accordance with the applicable requirements of subparts AA, BB, and CC of this part.

# Subpart J—Tank Systems

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.190
Applicability.
(a) The requirements of this subpart apply to tank systems for storing or treating hazardous secondary material excluded under the remanufacturing exclusion at § 261.4(a)(27).
(b) Tank systems, including sumps, as defined in § 260.10, that serve as part of a secondary containment system to collect or contain releases of hazardous secondary materials are exempted from the requirements in § 261.193(a).
§ 261.191
Assessment of existing tank system's integrity.
(a) Tank systems must meet the secondary containment requirements of § 261.193, or the remanufacturer or other person that handles the hazardous secondary material must determine that the tank system is not leaking or is unfit for use. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a written assessment reviewed and certified by a qualified Professional Engineer must be kept on file at the remanufacturer's facility or other facility that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material that attests to the tank system's integrity.
(b) This assessment must determine that the tank system is adequately designed and has sufficient structural strength and compatibility with the material(s) to be stored or treated, to ensure that it will not collapse, rupture, or fail. At a minimum, this assessment must consider the following:
(1) Design standard(s), if available, according to which the tank and ancillary equipment were constructed;
(2) Hazardous characteristics of the material(s) that have been and will be handled;
(3) Existing corrosion protection measures;
(4) Documented age of the tank system, if available (otherwise, an estimate of the age); and
(5) Results of a leak test, internal inspection, or other tank integrity examination such that:
(i) For non-enterable underground tanks, the assessment must include a leak test that is capable of taking into account the effects of temperature variations, tank end deflection, vapor pockets, and high water table effects, and
(ii) For other than non-enterable underground tanks and for ancillary equipment, this assessment must include either a leak test, as described above, or other integrity examination that is certified by a qualified Professional Engineer that addresses cracks, leaks, corrosion, and erosion.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(5)(
ii

# ):
The practices described in the American Petroleum Institute (API) Publication, Guide for Inspection of Refinery Equipment, Chapter XIII, “Atmospheric and Low-Pressure Storage Tanks,” 4th edition, 1981, may be used, where applicable, as guidelines in conducting other than a leak test.
(c) If, as a result of the assessment conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, a tank system is found to be leaking or unfit for use, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must comply with the requirements of § 261.196.
§ 261.192
[Reserved]
§ 261.193
Containment and detection of releases.
(a) Secondary containment systems must be:
(1) Designed, installed, and operated to prevent any migration of materials or accumulated liquid out of the system to the soil, ground water, or surface water at any time during the use of the tank system; and
(2) Capable of detecting and collecting releases and accumulated liquids until the collected material is removed.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
If the collected material is a hazardous waste under part 261 of this chapter, it is subject to management
as a hazardous waste in accordance with all applicable requirements of parts 262 through 265, 266, and 268 of this chapter. If the collected material is discharged through a point source to waters of the United States, it is subject to the requirements of sections 301, 304, and 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. If discharged to a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW), it is subject to the requirements of section 307 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. If the collected material is released to the environment, it may be subject to the reporting requirements of 40 CFR part 302.
(b) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, secondary containment systems must be at a minimum:
(1) Constructed of or lined with materials that are compatible with the materials(s) to be placed in the tank system and must have sufficient strength and thickness to prevent failure owing to pressure gradients (including static head and external hydrological forces), physical contact with the material to which it is exposed, climatic conditions, and the stress of daily operation (including stresses from nearby vehicular traffic);
(2) Placed on a foundation or base capable of providing support to the secondary containment system, resistance to pressure gradients above and below the system, and capable of preventing failure due to settlement, compression, or uplift;
(3) Provided with a leak-detection system that is designed and operated so that it will detect the failure of either the primary or secondary containment structure or the presence of any release of hazardous secondary material or accumulated liquid in the secondary containment system at the earliest practicable time; and
(4) Sloped or otherwise designed or operated to drain and remove liquids resulting from leaks, spills, or precipitation. Spilled or leaked material and accumulated precipitation must be removed from the secondary containment system within 24 hours, or in as timely a manner as is possible to prevent harm to human health and the environment.
(c) Secondary containment for tanks must include one or more of the following devices:
(1) A liner (external to the tank);
(2) A vault; or
(3) A double-walled tank.
(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, secondary containment systems must satisfy the following requirements:
(1) External liner systems must be:
(i) Designed or operated to contain 100 percent of the capacity of the largest tank within its boundary;
(ii) Designed or operated to prevent run-on or infiltration of precipitation into the secondary containment system unless the collection system has sufficient excess capacity to contain run-on or infiltration. Such additional capacity must be sufficient to contain precipitation from a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event.
(iii) Free of cracks or gaps; and
(iv) Designed and installed to surround the tank completely and to cover all surrounding earth likely to come into contact with the material if the material is released from the tank(s) (
i.e.,
capable of preventing lateral as well as vertical migration of the material).
(2) Vault systems must be:
(i) Designed or operated to contain 100 percent of the capacity of the largest tank within its boundary;
(ii) Designed or operated to prevent run-on or infiltration of precipitation into the secondary containment system unless the collection system has sufficient excess capacity to contain run-on or infiltration. Such additional capacity must be sufficient to contain precipitation from a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event;
(iii) Constructed with chemical-resistant water stops in place at all joints (if any);
(iv) Provided with an impermeable interior coating or lining that is compatible with the stored material and that will prevent migration of material into the concrete;
(v) Provided with a means to protect against the formation of and ignition of vapors within the vault, if the material being stored or treated is ignitable or reactive; and
(vi) Provided with an exterior moisture barrier or be otherwise designed or
operated to prevent migration of moisture into the vault if the vault is subject to hydraulic pressure.
(3) Double-walled tanks must be:
(i) Designed as an integral structure (
i.e.,
an inner tank completely enveloped within an outer shell) so that any release from the inner tank is contained by the outer shell;
(ii) Protected, if constructed of metal, from both corrosion of the primary tank interior and of the external surface of the outer shell; and
(iii) Provided with a built-in continuous leak detection system capable of detecting a release within 24 hours, or at the earliest practicable time.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(3):
The provisions outlined in the Steel Tank Institute's (STI) “Standard for Dual Wall Underground Steel Storage Tanks” may be used as guidelines for aspects of the design of underground steel double-walled tanks.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Ancillary equipment must be provided with secondary containment (
e.g.,
trench, jacketing, double-walled piping) that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section except for:
(1) Aboveground piping (exclusive of flanges, joints, valves, and other connections) that are visually inspected for leaks on a daily basis;
(2) Welded flanges, welded joints, and welded connections that are visually inspected for leaks on a daily basis;
(3) Sealless or magnetic coupling pumps and sealless valves that are visually inspected for leaks on a daily basis; and
(4) Pressurized aboveground piping systems with automatic shut-off devices (
e.g.,
excess flow check valves, flow metering shutdown devices, loss of pressure actuated shut-off devices) that are visually inspected for leaks on a daily basis.
§ 261.194
General operating requirements.
(a) Hazardous secondary materials or treatment reagents must not be placed in a tank system if they could cause the tank, its ancillary equipment, or the containment system to rupture, leak, corrode, or otherwise fail.
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must use appropriate controls and practices to prevent spills and overflows from tank or containment systems. These include at a minimum:
(1) Spill prevention controls (
e.g.,
check valves, dry disconnect couplings);
(2) Overfill prevention controls (
e.g.,
level sensing devices, high level alarms, automatic feed cutoff, or bypass to a standby tank); and
(3) Maintenance of sufficient freeboard in uncovered tanks to prevent overtopping by wave or wind action or by precipitation.
(c) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must comply with the requirements of § 261.196 of this subpart if a leak or spill occurs in the tank system.
§ 261.195
[Reserved]
§ 261.196
Response to leaks or spills and disposition of leaking or unfit-for-use tank systems.
A tank system or secondary containment system from which there has been a leak or spill, or which is unfit for use, must be removed from service immediately, and the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must satisfy the following requirements:
(a)
Cessation of use; prevent flow or addition of materials.
The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must immediately stop the flow of hazardous secondary material into the tank system or secondary containment system and inspect the system to determine the cause of the release.
(b)
Removal of material from tank system or secondary containment system.
(1) If the release was from the tank system, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must, within 24 hours after detection of the leak or, if the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material demonstrates that it is not possible, at the earliest practicable time, remove as much of the material as is necessary to prevent further release of hazardous secondary material to the environment and to
allow inspection and repair of the tank system to be performed.
(2) If the material released was to a secondary containment system, all released materials must be removed within 24 hours or in as timely a manner as is possible to prevent harm to human health and the environment.
(c)
Containment of visible releases to the environment.
The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must immediately conduct a visual inspection of the release and, based upon that inspection:
(1) Prevent further migration of the leak or spill to soils or surface water; and
(2) Remove, and properly dispose of, any visible contamination of the soil or surface water.
(d)
Notifications, reports.
(1) Any release to the environment, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must be reported to the Regional Administrator within 24 hours of its detection. If the release has been reported pursuant to 40 CFR part 302, that report will satisfy this requirement.
(2) A leak or spill of hazardous secondary material is exempted from the requirements of this paragraph if it is:
(i) Less than or equal to a quantity of 1 pound, and
(ii) Immediately contained and cleaned up.
(3) Within 30 days of detection of a release to the environment, a report containing the following information must be submitted to the Regional Administrator:
(i) Likely route of migration of the release;
(ii) Characteristics of the surrounding soil (soil composition, geology, hydrogeology, climate);
(iii) Results of any monitoring or sampling conducted in connection with the release (if available). If sampling or monitoring data relating to the release are not available within 30 days, these data must be submitted to the Regional Administrator as soon as they become available.
(iv) Proximity to downgradient drinking water, surface water, and populated areas; and
(v) Description of response actions taken or planned.
(e)
Provision of secondary containment, repair, or closure.
(1) Unless the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section, the tank system must cease to operate under the remanufacturing exclusion at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(27).
(2) If the cause of the release was a spill that has not damaged the integrity of the system, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may return the system to service as soon as the released material is removed and repairs, if necessary, are made.
(3) If the cause of the release was a leak from the primary tank system into the secondary containment system, the system must be repaired prior to returning the tank system to service.
(4) If the source of the release was a leak to the environment from a component of a tank system without secondary containment, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must provide the component of the system from which the leak occurred with secondary containment that satisfies the requirements of § 261.193 before it can be returned to service, unless the source of the leak is an aboveground portion of a tank system that can be inspected visually. If the source is an aboveground component that can be inspected visually, the component must be repaired and may be returned to service without secondary containment as long as the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are satisfied. Additionally, if a leak has occurred in any portion of a tank system component that is not readily accessible for visual inspection (
e.g.,
the bottom of an inground or onground tank), the entire component must be provided with secondary containment in accordance with § 261.193 of this subpart prior to being returned to use.
(f)
Certification of major repairs.
If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material has repaired a tank system in accordance with paragraph
(e) of this section, and the repair has been extensive (
e.g.,
installation of an internal liner; repair of a ruptured primary containment or secondary containment vessel), the tank system must not be returned to service unless the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material has obtained a certification by a qualified Professional Engineer that the repaired system is capable of handling hazardous secondary materials without release for the intended life of the system. This certification must be kept on file at the facility and maintained until closure of the facility.

# Note 1 to § 261.196:
The Regional Administrator may, on the basis of any information received that there is or has been a release of hazardous secondary material or hazardous constituents into the environment, issue an order under RCRA section 7003(a) requiring corrective action or such other response as deemed necessary to protect human health or the environment.

# Note 2 to § 261.196:
40 CFR part 302 may require the owner or operator to notify the National Response Center of certain releases.
§ 261.197
Termination of remanufacturing exclusion.
Hazardous secondary material stored in units more than 90 days after the unit ceases to operate under the remanufacturing exclusion at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(27) or otherwise ceases to be operated for manufacturing, or for storage of a product or a raw material, then becomes subject to regulation as hazardous waste under parts 261 through 266, 268, 270, 271, and 124 of this chapter, as applicable.
§ 261.198
Special requirements for ignitable or reactive materials.
(a) Ignitable or reactive material must not be placed in tank systems, unless the material is stored or treated in such a way that it is protected from any material or conditions that may cause the material to ignite or react.
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats hazardous secondary material which is ignitable or reactive must store or treat the hazardous secondary material in a tank that is in compliance with the requirements for the maintenance of protective distances between the material management area and any public ways, streets, alleys, or an adjoining property line that can be built upon as required in Tables 2-1 through 2-6 of the National Fire Protection Association's “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code,” (1977 or 1981), (incorporated by reference, see § 260.11).
§ 261.199
Special requirements for incompatible materials.
(a) Incompatible materials must not be placed in the same tank system.
(b) Hazardous secondary material must not be placed in a tank system that has not been decontaminated and that previously held an incompatible material.
§ 261.200
Air emission standards.
The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall manage all hazardous secondary material placed in a tank in accordance with the applicable requirements of subparts AA, BB, and CC of this part.
Subparts K-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Emergency Preparedness and Response for Management of Excluded Hazardous Secondary Materials

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.400
Applicability.
The requirements of this subpart apply to (1) those areas of an entity managing hazardous secondary materials excluded under § 261.4(a)(23) and/or (24) where such materials are generated or accumulated on site, and (2) facilities regulated under the standards at 40 CFR part 266, subpart Q that receive ignitable spent refrigerant from off-site and that are not transfer facilities that store the refrigerants for less than ten (10) days.
(a) A generator of hazardous secondary material, or an intermediate or reclamation facility, that accumulates 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material at any time must comply with §§ 261.410 and 261.411.
(b) A generator of hazardous secondary material, or an intermediate or reclamation facility that accumulates more than 6000 kg of hazardous secondary material at any time must comply with §§ 261.410 and 261.420.
(c) Facilities receiving refrigerant from off-site under 40 CFR part 266, subpart Q that are not transfer facilities that store the refrigerants for less than ten (10) days must comply with §§ 261.410 and 261.420.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54102, Aug. 9, 2023; 89 FR 82870, Oct. 11, 2024]
§ 261.410
Preparedness and prevention.
(a)
Maintenance and operation of facility.
Facilities generating or accumulating hazardous secondary material must be maintained and operated to minimize the possibility of a fire, explosion, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden release of hazardous secondary materials or hazardous secondary material constituents to air, soil, or surface water which could threaten human health or the environment.
(b)
Required equipment.
All facilities generating or accumulating hazardous secondary material must be equipped with the following,
unless
none of the hazards posed by hazardous secondary material handled at the facility could require a particular kind of equipment specified below:
(1) An internal communications or alarm system capable of providing immediate emergency instruction (voice or signal) to facility personnel;
(2) A device, such as a telephone (immediately available at the scene of operations) or a hand-held two-way radio, capable of summoning emergency assistance from local police departments, fire departments, or state or local emergency response teams;
(3) Portable fire extinguishers, fire control equipment (including special extinguishing equipment, such as that using foam, inert gas, or dry chemicals), spill control equipment, and decontamination equipment; and
(4) Water at adequate volume and pressure to supply water hose streams, or foam producing equipment, or automatic sprinklers, or water spray systems.
(c)
Testing and maintenance of equipment.
All facility communications or alarm systems, fire protection equipment, spill control equipment, and decontamination equipment, where required, must be tested and maintained as necessary to assure its proper operation in time of emergency.
(d)
Access to communications or alarm system.
(1) Whenever hazardous secondary material is being poured, mixed, spread, or otherwise handled, all personnel involved in the operation must have immediate access to an internal alarm or emergency communication device, either directly or through visual or voice contact with another employee, unless such a device is not required under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If there is ever just one employee on the premises while the facility is operating, he must have immediate access to a device, such as a telephone (immediately available at the scene of operation) or a hand-held two-way radio, capable of summoning external emergency assistance,
unless
such a device is not required under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Required aisle space.
The hazardous secondary material generator or intermediate or reclamation facility must maintain aisle space to allow the unobstructed movement of personnel, fire protection equipment, spill control equipment, and decontamination equipment to any area of facility operation in an emergency, unless aisle space is not needed for any of these purposes.
(f)
Arrangements with local authorities.
(1) The hazardous secondary material generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility must attempt to make the following arrangements, as appropriate for the type of waste handled at his facility and the potential need for the services of these organizations:
(i) Arrangements to familiarize police, fire departments, and emergency response teams with the layout of the facility, properties of hazardous secondary material handled at the facility and associated hazards, places where facility personnel would normally be
working, entrances to roads inside the facility, and possible evacuation routes;
(ii) Where more than one police and fire department might respond to an emergency, agreements designating primary emergency authority to a specific police and a specific fire department, and agreements with any others to provide support to the primary emergency authority;
(iii) Agreements with state emergency response teams, emergency response contractors, and equipment suppliers; and
(iv) Arrangements to familiarize local hospitals with the properties of hazardous waste handled at the facility and the types of injuries or illnesses which could result from fires, explosions, or releases at the facility.
(2) Where State or local authorities decline to enter into such arrangements, the hazardous secondary material generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility must document the refusal in the operating record.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54102, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.411
Emergency procedures for facilities generating or accumulating 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material.
A generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility that generates or accumulates 6000 kg or less of hazardous secondary material must comply with the following requirements:
(a) At all times there must be at least one employee either on the premises or on call (
i.e.,
available to respond to an emergency by reaching the facility within a short period of time) with the responsibility for coordinating all emergency response measures specified in paragraph (d) of this section. This employee is the emergency coordinator.
(b) The generator or intermediate or reclamation facility must post the following information next to the telephone:
(1) The name and telephone number of the emergency coordinator;
(2) Location of fire extinguishers and spill control material, and, if present, fire alarm; and
(3) The telephone number of the fire department, unless the facility has a direct alarm.
(c) The generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility must ensure that all employees are thoroughly familiar with proper waste handling and emergency procedures, relevant to their responsibilities during normal facility operations and emergencies;
(d) The emergency coordinator or his designee must respond to any emergencies that arise. The applicable responses are as follows:
(1) In the event of a fire, call the fire department or attempt to extinguish it using a fire extinguisher;
(2) In the event of a spill, contain the flow of hazardous waste to the extent possible, and as soon as is practicable, clean up the hazardous waste and any contaminated materials or soil;
(3) In the event of a fire, explosion, or other release which could threaten human health outside the facility or when the generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility has knowledge that a spill has reached surface water, the generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility operating under a verified recycler variance under § 260.31(d) of this subchapter must immediately notify the National Response Center (using their 24-hour toll free number 800/424-8802). The report must include the following information:
(i) The name, address, and U.S. EPA Identification Number of the facility;
(ii) Date, time, and type of incident (
e.g.,
spill or fire);
(iii) Quantity and type of hazardous waste involved in the incident;
(iv) Extent of injuries, if any; and
(v) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered materials, if any.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.420
Contingency planning and emergency procedures for facilities generating or accumulating more than 6,000 kg of hazardous secondary material or receiving ignitable spent refrigerants
A generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility that generates or
accumulates more than 6,000 kg of hazardous secondary material, or a facility receiving refrigerant from off-site under 40 CFR part 266, subpart Q, that is not a transfer facility that stores the refrigerants for less than ten (10) days must comply with the following requirements:
(a)
Purpose and implementation of contingency plan.
(1) Each generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility that accumulates more than 6000 kg of hazardous secondary material must have a contingency plan for his facility. The contingency plan must be designed to minimize hazards to human health or the environment from fires, explosions, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden release of hazardous secondary material or hazardous secondary material constituents to air, soil, or surface water.
(2) The provisions of the plan must be carried out immediately whenever there is a fire, explosion, or release of hazardous secondary material or hazardous secondary material constituents which could threaten human health or the environment.
(b)
Content of contingency plan.
(1) The contingency plan must describe the actions facility personnel must take to comply with paragraphs (a) and (f) in response to fires, explosions, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden release of hazardous secondary material or hazardous secondary material constituents to air, soil, or surface water at the facility.
(2) If the generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility accumulating more than 6000 kg of hazardous secondary material has already prepared a Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasures (SPCC) Plan in accordance with part 112 of this chapter, or some other emergency or contingency plan, he need only amend that plan to incorporate hazardous waste management provisions that are sufficient to comply with the requirements of this part. The hazardous secondary material generator or an intermediate or reclamation facility operating under a verified recycler variance under § 260.31(d) of this subchapter may develop one contingency plan which meets all regulatory requirements. EPA recommends that the plan be based on the National Response Team's Integrated Contingency Plan Guidance (“One Plan”). When modifications are made to non-RCRA provisions in an integrated contingency plan, the changes do not trigger the need for a RCRA permit modification.
(3) The plan must describe arrangements agreed to by local police departments, fire departments, hospitals, contractors, and State and local emergency response teams to coordinate emergency services, pursuant to § 261.410(f).
(4) The plan must list names, addresses, and phone numbers (office and home) of all persons qualified to act as emergency coordinator (see paragraph (e) of this section), and this list must be kept up-to-date. Where more than one person is listed, one must be named as primary emergency coordinator and others must be listed in the order in which they will assume responsibility as alternates.
(5) The plan must include a list of all emergency equipment at the facility (such as fire extinguishing systems, spill control equipment, communications and alarm systems (internal and external), and decontamination equipment), where this equipment is required. This list must be kept up to date. In addition, the plan must include the location and a physical description of each item on the list, and a brief outline of its capabilities.
(6) The plan must include an evacuation plan for facility personnel where there is a possibility that evacuation could be necessary. This plan must describe signal(s) to be used to begin evacuation, evacuation routes, and alternate evacuation routes (in cases where the primary routes could be blocked by releases of hazardous waste or fires).
(c
) Copies of contingency plan.
A copy of the contingency plan and all revisions to the plan must be:
(1) Maintained at the facility; and
(2) Submitted to all local police departments, fire departments, hospitals, and State and local emergency response teams that may be called upon to provide emergency services.
(d
) Amendment of contingency plan.
The contingency plan must be reviewed, and immediately amended, if necessary, whenever:
(1) Applicable regulations are revised;
(2) The plan fails in an emergency;
(3) The facility changes—in its design, construction, operation, maintenance, or other circumstances—in a way that materially increases the potential for fires, explosions, or releases of hazardous secondary material or hazardous secondary material constituents, or changes the response necessary in an emergency;
(4) The list of emergency coordinators changes; or
(5) The list of emergency equipment changes.
(e
) Emergency coordinator.
At all times, there must be at least one employee either on the facility premises or on call (
i.e.,
available to respond to an emergency by reaching the facility within a short period of time) with the responsibility for coordinating all emergency response measures. This emergency coordinator must be thoroughly familiar with all aspects of the facility's contingency plan, all operations and activities at the facility, the location and characteristics of waste handled, the location of all records within the facility, and the facility layout. In addition, this person must have the authority to commit the resources needed to carry out the contingency plan. The emergency coordinator's responsibilities are more fully spelled out in paragraph (f). Applicable responsibilities for the emergency coordinator vary, depending on factors such as type and variety of hazardous secondary material(s) handled by the facility, and type and complexity of the facility.
(f)
Emergency procedures.
(1) Whenever there is an imminent or actual emergency situation, the emergency coordinator (or his designee when the emergency coordinator is on call) must immediately:
(i) Activate internal facility alarms or communication systems, where applicable, to notify all facility personnel; and
(ii) Notify appropriate State or local agencies with designated response roles if their help is needed.
(2) Whenever there is a release, fire, or explosion, the emergency coordinator must immediately identify the character, exact source, amount, and areal extent of any released materials. He may do this by observation or review of facility records or manifests and, if necessary, by chemical analysis.
(3) Concurrently, the emergency coordinator must assess possible hazards to human health or the environment that may result from the release, fire, or explosion. This assessment must consider both direct and indirect effects of the release, fire, or explosion (
e.g.,
the effects of any toxic, irritating, or asphyxiating gases that are generated, or the effects of any hazardous surface water run-offs from water or chemical agents used to control fire and heat-induced explosions).
(4) If the emergency coordinator determines that the facility has had a release, fire, or explosion which could threaten human health, or the environment, outside the facility, he must report his findings as follows:
(i) If his assessment indicates that evacuation of local areas may be advisable, he must immediately notify appropriate local authorities. He must be available to help appropriate officials decide whether local areas should be evacuated; and
(ii) He must immediately notify either the government official designated as the on-scene coordinator for that geographical area, or the National Response Center (using their 24-hour toll free number 800/424-8802). The report must include:
(A) Name and telephone number of reporter;
(B) Name and address of facility;
(C) Time and type of incident (
e.g.,
release, fire);
(D) Name and quantity of material(s) involved, to the extent known;
(E) The extent of injuries, if any; and
(F) The possible hazards to human health, or the environment, outside the facility.
(5) During an emergency, the emergency coordinator must take all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that fires, explosions, and releases do
not occur, recur, or spread to other hazardous secondary material at the facility. These measures must include, where applicable, stopping processes and operations, collecting and containing released material, and removing or isolating containers.
(6) If the facility stops operations in response to a fire, explosion or release, the emergency coordinator must monitor for leaks, pressure buildup, gas generation, or ruptures in valves, pipes, or other equipment, wherever this is appropriate.
(7) Immediately after an emergency, the emergency coordinator must provide for treating, storing, or disposing of recovered secondary material, contaminated soil or surface water, or any other material that results from a release, fire, or explosion at the facility. Unless the hazardous secondary material generator can demonstrate, in accordance with § 261.3(c) or (d) of this chapter, that the recovered material is not a hazardous waste, the owner or operator becomes a generator of hazardous waste and must manage it in accordance with all applicable requirements of parts 262, 263, and 265 of this chapter.
(8) The emergency coordinator must ensure that, in the affected area(s) of the facility:
(i) No secondary material that may be incompatible with the released material is treated, stored, or disposed of until cleanup procedures are completed; and
(ii) All emergency equipment listed in the contingency plan is cleaned and fit for its intended use before operations are resumed.
(9) The hazardous secondary material generator must note in the operating record the time, date, and details of any incident that requires implementing the contingency plan. Within 15 days after the incident, he must submit a written report on the incident to the Regional Administrator. The report must include:
(i) Name, address, and telephone number of the hazardous secondary material generator;
(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of the facility;
(iii) Date, time, and type of incident (
e.g.,
fire, explosion);
(iv) Name and quantity of material(s) involved;
(v) The extent of injuries, if any;
(vi) An assessment of actual or potential hazards to human health or the environment, where this is applicable; and
(vii) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered material that resulted from the incident.
(g)
Personnel training.
All employees must be thoroughly familiar with proper waste handling and emergency procedures relevant to their responsibilities during normal facility operations and emergencies.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 85806, Nov. 28, 2016; 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023; 89 FR 82870, Oct. 11, 2024]
Subparts N-Z [Reserved]

# Subpart AA—Air Emission Standards for Process Vents

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.1030
Applicability.
The regulations in this subpart apply to process vents associated with distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or stream stripping operations that manage hazardous secondary materials excluded under the remanufacturing exclusion at § 261.4(a)(27) with concentrations of at least 10 ppmw, unless the process vents are equipped with operating air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of an applicable Clean Air Act regulation codified under 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63.
§ 261.1031
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and parts 260-266.
Air stripping operation
is a desorption operation employed to transfer one or more volatile components from a liquid mixture into a gas (air) either with or without the application of heat to the liquid. Packed towers, spray towers, and bubble-cap, sieve, or valve-type
plate towers are among the process configurations used for contacting the air and a liquid.
Bottoms receiver
means a container or tank used to receive and collect the heavier bottoms fractions of the distillation feed stream that remain in the liquid phase.
Closed-vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of piping, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of equipment to a control device.
Condenser
means a heat-transfer device that reduces a thermodynamic fluid from its vapor phase to its liquid phase.
Connector
means flanged, screwed, welded, or other joined fittings used to connect two pipelines or a pipeline and a piece of equipment. For the purposes of reporting and recordkeeping, connector means flanged fittings that are not covered by insulation or other materials that prevent location of the fittings.
Continuous recorder
means a data-recording device recording an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes.
Control device
means an enclosed combustion device, vapor recovery system, or flare. Any device the primary function of which is the recovery or capture of solvents or other organics for use, reuse, or sale (
e.g.,
a primary condenser on a solvent recovery unit) is not a control device.
Control device shutdown
means the cessation of operation of a control device for any purpose.
Distillate receiver
means a container or tank used to receive and collect liquid material (condensed) from the overhead condenser of a distillation unit and from which the condensed liquid is pumped to larger storage tanks or other process units.
Distillation operation
means an operation, either batch or continuous, separating one or more feed stream(s) into two or more exit streams, each exit stream having component concentrations different from those in the feed stream(s). The separation is achieved by the redistribution of the components between the liquid and vapor phase as they approach equilibrium within the distillation unit.
Double block and bleed system
means two block valves connected in series with a bleed valve or line that can vent the line between the two block valves.
Equipment
means each valve, pump, compressor, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, or flange or other connector, and any control devices or systems required by this subpart.
Flame zone
means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler occupied by the flame envelope.
Flow indicator
means a device that indicates whether gas flow is present in a vent stream.
First attempt at repair
means to take rapid action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere using best practices.
Fractionation operation
means a distillation operation or method used to separate a mixture of several volatile components of different boiling points in successive stages, each stage removing from the mixture some proportion of one of the components.
Hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown
means a work practice or operational procedure that stops operation of a hazardous secondary material management unit or part of a hazardous secondary material management unit. An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that stops operation of a hazardous secondary material management unit or part of a hazardous secondary material management unit for less than 24 hours is not a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown. The use of spare equipment and technically feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping operation are not hazardous secondary material management unit shutdowns.
Hot well
means a container for collecting condensate as in a steam condenser serving a vacuum-jet or steam-jet ejector.
In gas/vapor service
means that the piece of equipment contains or contacts a hazardous secondary material stream that is in the gaseous state at operating conditions.
In heavy liquid service
means that the piece of equipment is not in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
In light liquid service
means that the piece of equipment contains or contacts a material stream where the vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components in the stream is greater than 0.3 kilopascals (kPa) at 20 °C, the total concentration of the pure organic components having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kilopascals (kPa) at 20 °C is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight, and the fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.
In situ sampling systems
means nonextractive samplers or in-line samplers.
In vacuum service
means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure that is at least 5 kPa below ambient pressure.
Malfunction
means any sudden failure of a control device or a hazardous secondary material management unit or failure of a hazardous secondary material management unit to operate in a normal or usual manner, so that organic emissions are increased.
Open-ended valve or line
means any valve, except pressure relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with hazardous secondary material and one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.
Pressure release
means the emission of materials resulting from the system pressure being greater than the set pressure of the pressure relief device.
Process heater
means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that are heated to produce steam.
Process vent
means any open-ended pipe or stack that is vented to the atmosphere either directly, through a vacuum-producing system, or through a tank (
e.g.,
distillate receiver, condenser, bottoms receiver, surge control tank, separator tank, or hot well) associated with hazardous secondary material distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operations.
Repaired
means that equipment is adjusted, or otherwise altered, to eliminate a leak.
Sampling connection system
means an assembly of equipment within a process or material management unit used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process or material fluid. Equipment used to take non-routine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.
Sensor
means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity, such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.
Separator tank
means a device used for separation of two immiscible liquids.
Solvent extraction operation
means an operation or method of separation in which a solid or solution is contacted with a liquid solvent (the two being mutually insoluble) to preferentially dissolve and transfer one or more components into the solvent.
Startup
means the setting in operation of a hazardous secondary material management unit or control device for any purpose.
Steam stripping operation
means a distillation operation in which vaporization of the volatile constituents of a liquid mixture takes place by the introduction of steam directly into the charge.
Surge control tank
means a large-sized pipe or storage reservoir sufficient to contain the surging liquid discharge of the process tank to which it is connected.
Thin-film evaporation operation
means a distillation operation that employs a heating surface consisting of a large diameter tube that may be either straight or tapered, horizontal or vertical. Liquid is spread on the tube wall by a rotating assembly of blades that maintain a close clearance from the wall or actually ride on the film of liquid on the wall.
Vapor incinerator
means any enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds and does not extract energy in the form of steam or process heat.
Vented
means discharged through an opening, typically an open-ended pipe or stack, allowing the passage of a
stream of liquids, gases, or fumes into the atmosphere. The passage of liquids, gases, or fumes is caused by mechanical means such as compressors or vacuum-producing systems or by process-related means such as evaporation produced by heating and not caused by tank loading and unloading (working losses) or by natural means such as diurnal temperature changes.
§ 261.1032
Standards: Process vents.
(a) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats hazardous secondary materials in hazardous secondary material management units with process vents associated with distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operations managing hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations of at least 10 ppmw shall either:
(1) Reduce total organic emissions from all affected process vents at the facility below 1.4 kg/h (3 lb/h) and 2.8 Mg/yr (3.1 tons/yr), or
(2) Reduce, by use of a control device, total organic emissions from all affected process vents at the facility by 95 weight percent.
(b) If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material installs a closed-vent system and control device to comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section the closed-vent system and control device must meet the requirements of § 261.1033.
(c) Determinations of vent emissions and emission reductions or total organic compound concentrations achieved by add-on control devices may be based on engineering calculations or performance tests. If performance tests are used to determine vent emissions, emission reductions, or total organic compound concentrations achieved by add-on control devices, the performance tests must conform with the requirements of § 261.1034(c).
(d) When a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and the Regional Administrator do not agree on determinations of vent emissions and/or emission reductions or total organic compound concentrations achieved by add-on control devices based on engineering calculations, the procedures in § 261.1034(c) shall be used to resolve the disagreement.
§ 261.1033
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
(a)(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary materials in hazardous secondary material management units using closed-vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this part shall comply with the provisions of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) A control device involving vapor recovery (
e.g.,
a condenser or adsorber) shall be designed and operated to recover the organic vapors vented to it with an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater unless the total organic emission limits of § 261.1032(a)(1) for all affected process vents can be attained at an efficiency less than 95 weight percent.
(c) An enclosed combustion device (
e.g.,
a vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) shall be designed and operated to reduce the organic emissions vented to it by 95 weight percent or greater; to achieve a total organic compound concentration of 20 ppmv, expressed as the sum of the actual compounds, not carbon equivalents, on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen; or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.50 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 °C. If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.
(d)(1) A flare shall be designed for and operated with no visible emissions as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours.
(2) A flare shall be operated with a flame present at all times, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section.
(3) A flare shall be used only if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is 11.2 MJ/scm (300 Btu/scf) or greater if the flare is steam-assisted or air-assisted; or if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is 7.45 MJ/
scm (200 Btu/scf) or greater if the flare is nonassisted. The net heating value of the gas being combusted shall be determined by the methods specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4)(i) A steam-assisted or nonassisted flare shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, less than 18.3 m/s (60 ft/s), except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) A steam-assisted or nonassisted flare designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, equal to or greater than 18.3 m/s (60 ft/s) but less than 122 m/s (400 ft/s) is allowed if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is greater than 37.3 MJ/scm (1,000 Btu/scf).
(iii) A steam-assisted or nonassisted flare designed for and operated with an exit velocity, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, less than the velocity, V
max
, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section and less than 122 m/s (400 ft/s) is allowed.
(5) An air-assisted flare shall be designed and operated with an exit velocity less than the velocity, V
max
, as determined by the method specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(6) A flare used to comply with this section shall be steam-assisted, air-assisted, or nonassisted.
(e)(1) Reference Method 22 in 40 CFR part 60 shall be used to determine the compliance of a flare with the visible emission provisions of this subpart. The observation period is 2 hours and shall be used according to Method 22.
(2) The net heating value of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be calculated using the following equation:
ER13JA15.000
Where:
H
T
= Net heating value of the sample, MJ/scm; where the net enthalpy per mole of offgas is based on combustion at 25 °C and 760 mm Hg, but the standard temperature for determining the volume corresponding to 1 mol is 20 °C;
K = Constant, 1.74 × 10
−7
(1/ppm) (g mol/scm) (MJ/kcal) where standard temperature for (g mol/scm) is 20 °C;
C
i
= Concentration of sample component i in ppm on a wet basis, as measured for organics by Reference Method 18 in 40 CFR part 60 and measured for hydrogen and carbon monoxide by ASTM D 1946-82 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 260.11); and
H
i
= Net heat of combustion of sample component i, kcal/9 mol at 25 °C and 760 mm Hg. The heats of combustion may be determined using ASTM D 2382-83 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 260.11) if published values are not available or cannot be calculated.
(3) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by dividing the volumetric flow rate (in units of standard temperature and pressure), as determined by Reference Methods 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D in 40 CFR part 60 as appropriate, by the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip.
(4) The maximum allowed velocity in m/s, V
max
, for a flare complying with paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section shall be determined by the following equation:
Log
10
(V
max
) = (H
T
+ 28.8)/31.7
Where:
28.8 = Constant,
31.7 = Constant,
H
T
= The net heating value as determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(5) The maximum allowed velocity in m/s, V
max
, for an air-assisted flare shall be determined by the following equation:
V
max
= 8.706 + 0.7084 (H
T
)
Where:
8.706 = Constant,
0.7084 = Constant,
H
T
= The net heating value as determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(f) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall monitor and inspect each control device required to comply with this section to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the control device by implementing the following requirements:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow indicator that provides a record of vent stream flow from each affected process vent to the control device at least once every hour. The flow indicator sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the control device inlet but before the point at which the vent streams are combined.
(2) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a device to continuously monitor control device operation as specified below:
(i) For a thermal vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall have an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in °C or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the combustion chamber downstream of the combustion zone.
(ii) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations and have an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in °C or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater. One temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet and a second temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet.
(iii) For a flare, a heat sensing monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that indicates the continuous ignition of the pilot flame.
(iv) For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity less than 44 MW, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall have an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in °C or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the furnace downstream of the combustion zone.
(v) For a boiler or process heater having a design heat input capacity greater than or equal to 44 MW, a monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure a parameter(s) that indicates good combustion operating practices are being used.
(vi) For a condenser, either:
(A) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser, or
(B) A temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius ( °C) or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser exit (
i.e.,
product side).
(vii) For a carbon adsorption system that regenerates the carbon bed directly in the control device such as a fixed-bed carbon adsorber, either:
(A) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon bed, or
(B) A monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure a parameter that indicates the carbon bed is regenerated on a regular, predetermined time cycle.
(3) Inspect the readings from each monitoring device required by paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section at least once each operating day to check control device operation and, if necessary, immediately implement the corrective measures necessary to ensure the control device operates in compliance with the requirements of this section.
(g) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats hazardous secondary material in a hazardous secondary material management unit using a carbon adsorption system such
as a fixed-bed carbon adsorber that regenerates the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device shall replace the existing carbon in the control device with fresh carbon at a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established as a requirement of § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii)(F).
(h) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats hazardous secondary material in a hazardous secondary material management unit using a carbon adsorption system such as a carbon canister that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device shall replace the existing carbon in the control device with fresh carbon on a regular basis by using one of the following procedures:
(1) Monitor the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon adsorption system on a regular schedule, and replace the existing carbon with fresh carbon immediately when carbon breakthrough is indicated. The monitoring frequency shall be daily or at an interval no greater than 20 percent of the time required to consume the total carbon working capacity established as a requirement of § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii)(G), whichever is longer.
(2) Replace the existing carbon with fresh carbon at a regular, predetermined time interval that is less than the design carbon replacement interval established as a requirement of § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii)(G).
(i) An alternative operational or process parameter may be monitored if it can be demonstrated that another parameter will ensure that the control device is operated in conformance with these standards and the control device's design specifications.
(j) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats hazardous secondary material at an affected facility seeking to comply with the provisions of this part by using a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system is required to develop documentation including sufficient information to describe the control device operation and identify the process parameter or parameters that indicate proper operation and maintenance of the control device.
(k) A closed-vent system shall meet either of the following design requirements:
(1) A closed-vent system shall be designed to operate with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background as determined by the procedure in § 261.1034(b) of this subpart, and by visual inspections; or
(2) A closed-vent system shall be designed to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gauge or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the control device is operating.
(l) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall monitor and inspect each closed-vent system required to comply with this section to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the closed-vent system by implementing the following requirements:
(1) Each closed-vent system that is used to comply with paragraph (k)(1) of this section shall be inspected and monitored in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) An initial leak detection monitoring of the closed-vent system shall be conducted by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material on or before the date that the system becomes subject to this section. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall monitor the closed-vent system components and connections using the procedures specified in § 261.1034(b) of this subpart to demonstrate that the closed-vent system operates with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background.
(ii) After initial leak detection monitoring required in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the
hazardous secondary material shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent system as follows:
(A) Closed-vent system joints, seams, or other connections that are permanently or semi-permanently sealed (
e.g.,
a welded joint between two sections of hard piping or a bolted and gasketed ducting flange) shall be visually inspected at least once per year to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall monitor a component or connection using the procedures specified in § 261.1034(b) of this subpart to demonstrate that it operates with no detectable emissions following any time the component is repaired or replaced (
e.g.,
a section of damaged hard piping is replaced with new hard piping) or the connection is unsealed (
e.g.,
a flange is unbolted).
(B) Closed-vent system components or connections other than those specified in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(A) of this section shall be monitored annually and at other times as requested by the Regional Administrator, except as provided for in paragraph (o) of this section, using the procedures specified in § 261.1034(b) of this subpart to demonstrate that the components or connections operate with no detectable emissions.
(iii) In the event that a defect or leak is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect or leak in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(iv) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection and monitoring in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1035 of this subpart.
(2) Each closed-vent system that is used to comply with paragraph (k)(2) of this section shall be inspected and monitored in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) The closed-vent system shall be visually inspected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in ductwork or piping or loose connections.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform an initial inspection of the closed-vent system on or before the date that the system becomes subject to this section. Thereafter, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the inspections at least once every year.
(iii) In the event that a defect or leak is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(iv) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection and monitoring in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1035 of this subpart.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair all detected defects as follows:
(i) Detectable emissions, as indicated by visual inspection, or by an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv above background, shall be controlled as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after the emission is detected, except as provided for in paragraph (l)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the emission is detected.
(iii) Delay of repair of a closed-vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown, or if the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed by the end of the next process unit shutdown.
(iv) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1035 of this subpart.
(m) Closed-vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
(n) The owner or operator using a carbon adsorption system to control air pollutant emissions shall document that all carbon that is a hazardous waste and that is removed from the control device is managed in one of the following manners, regardless of the average volatile organic concentration of the carbon:
(1) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit that meets one of the following:
(i) The owner or operator of the unit has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 which implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X; or
(ii) The unit is equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with the applicable requirements of subparts AA and CC of either this part or of 40 CFR part 265; or
(iii) The unit is equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with a national emission standard for hazardous air pollutants under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63.
(2) Incinerated in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator either:
(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 which implements the requirements of subpart O of this part; or
(ii) Has designed and operates the incinerator in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.
(3) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator either:
(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 which implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or
(ii) Has designed and operates the boiler or industrial furnace in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
(o) Any components of a closed-vent system that are designated, as described in § 261.1035(c)(9) of this subpart, as unsafe to monitor are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(B) of this section if:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in a hazardous secondary material management unit using a closed-vent system determines that the components of the closed-vent system are unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in a hazardous secondary material management unit using a closed-vent system adheres to a written plan that requires monitoring the closed-vent system components using the procedure specified in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(B) of this section as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.1034
Test methods and procedures.
(a) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the test methods and procedural requirements provided in this section.
(b) When a closed-vent system is tested for compliance with no detectable emissions, as required in § 261.1033(l) of this subpart, the test shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) Monitoring shall comply with Reference Method 21 in 40 CFR part 60.
(2) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Reference Method 21.
(3) The instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Reference Method 21.
(4) Calibration gases shall be:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air).
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppm methane or n-hexane.
(5) The background level shall be determined as set forth in Reference Method 21.
(6) The instrument probe shall be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as close to the interface as possible as described in Reference Method 21.
(7) The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppm for determining compliance.
(c) Performance tests to determine compliance with § 261.1032(a) and with the total organic compound concentration limit of § 261.1033(c) shall comply with the following:
(1) Performance tests to determine total organic compound concentrations and mass flow rates entering and exiting control devices shall be conducted and data reduced in accordance with the following reference methods and calculation procedures:
(i) Method 2 in 40 CFR part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.
(ii) Method 18 or Method 25A in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, for organic content. If Method 25A is used, the organic HAP used as the calibration gas must be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions. The use of Method 25A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(iii) Each performance test shall consist of three separate runs; each run conducted for at least 1 hour under the conditions that exist when the hazardous secondary material management unit is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur. For the purpose of determining total organic compound concentrations and mass flow rates, the average of results of all runs shall apply. The average shall be computed on a time-weighted basis.
(iv) Total organic mass flow rates shall be determined by the following equation:
(A) For sources utilizing Method 18.
ER13JA15.001
Where:
E
h
= Total organic mass flow rate, kg/h;
Q
2sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting control device, as determined by Method 2, dscm/h;
n = Number of organic compounds in the vent gas;
C
i
= Organic concentration in ppm, dry basis, of compound i in the vent gas, as determined by Method 18;
MW
i
= Molecular weight of organic compound i in the vent gas, kg/kg-mol;
0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-mol/m3 (@293 K and 760 mm Hg);
10
−6
= Conversion from ppm
(B) For sources utilizing Method 25A.
E
h
= (Q)(C)(MW)(0.0416)(10
−6
)
Where:
E
h
= Total organic mass flow rate, kg/h;
Q = Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting control device, as determined by Method 2, dscm/h;
C = Organic concentration in ppm, dry basis, as determined by Method 25A;
MW = Molecular weight of propane, 44;
0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-mol/m3 (@293 K and 760 mm Hg);
10
−6
= Conversion from ppm.
(v) The annual total organic emission rate shall be determined by the following equation:
E
A
= (E
h
)(H)
Where:
E
A
= Total organic mass emission rate, kg/y;
E
h
= Total organic mass flow rate for the process vent, kg/h;
H = Total annual hours of operations for the affected unit, h.
(vi) Total organic emissions from all affected process vents at the facility shall be determined by summing the hourly total organic mass emission rates (E
h
, as determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section) and by summing the annual total organic mass emission rates (E
A
, as determined in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section) for all affected process vents at the facility.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record such process information as may be necessary to determine the conditions of the performance tests. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material at an affected facility shall provide, or cause to be provided, performance testing facilities as follows:
(i) Sampling ports adequate for the test methods specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) Safe sampling platform(s).
(iii) Safe access to sampling platform(s).
(iv) Utilities for sampling and testing equipment.
(4) For the purpose of making compliance determinations, the time-weighted average of the results of the three runs shall apply. In the event that a sample is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances beyond the remanufacturer's or other person's that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material control, compliance may, upon the Regional Administrator's approval, be determined using the average of the results of the two other runs.
(d) To show that a process vent associated with a hazardous secondary material distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operation is not subject to the requirements of this subpart, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must make an initial determination that the time-weighted, annual average total organic concentration of the material managed by the hazardous secondary material management unit is less than 10 ppmw using one of the following two methods:
(1) Direct measurement of the organic concentration of the material using the following procedures:
(i) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must take a minimum of four grab samples of material for each material stream managed in the affected unit under process conditions expected to cause the maximum material organic concentration.
(ii) For material generated onsite, the grab samples must be collected at a point before the material is exposed to the atmosphere such as in an enclosed pipe or other closed system that is used to transfer the material after generation to the first affected distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operation. For material generated offsite, the grab samples must be collected at the inlet to the first material management unit that receives the material provided the material has been transferred to the facility in a closed system such as a tank truck and the material is not diluted or mixed with other material.
(iii) Each sample shall be analyzed and the total organic concentration of the sample shall be computed using Method 9060A (incorporated by reference under 40 CFR 260.11) of “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, or analyzed for its individual organic constituents.
(iv) The arithmetic mean of the results of the analyses of the four samples shall apply for each material stream managed in the unit in determining the time-weighted, annual average total organic concentration of the material. The time-weighted average is to be calculated using the annual
quantity of each material stream processed and the mean organic concentration of each material stream managed in the unit.
(2) Using knowledge of the material to determine that its total organic concentration is less than 10 ppmw. Documentation of the material determination is required. Examples of documentation that shall be used to support a determination under this provision include production process information documenting that no organic compounds are used, information that the material is generated by a process that is identical to a process at the same or another facility that has previously been demonstrated by direct measurement to generate a material stream having a total organic content less than 10 ppmw, or prior speciation analysis results on the same material stream where it can also be documented that no process changes have occurred since that analysis that could affect the material total organic concentration.
(e) The determination that distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operations manage hazardous secondary materials with time-weighted, annual average total organic concentrations less than 10 ppmw shall be made as follows:
(1) By the effective date that the facility becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by the date when the material is first managed in a hazardous secondary material management unit, whichever is later, and
(2) For continuously generated material, annually, or
(3) Whenever there is a change in the material being managed or a change in the process that generates or treats the material.
(f) When a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and the Regional Administrator do not agree on whether a distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operation manages a hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations of at least 10 ppmw based on knowledge of the material, the dispute may be resolved by using direct measurement as specified at paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
§ 261.1035
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)(1) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.
(2) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material of more than one hazardous secondary material management unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these hazardous secondary material management units in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each hazardous secondary material management unit.
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must keep the following records on-site:
(1) For facilities that comply with the provisions of § 261.1033(a)(2), an implementation schedule that includes dates by which the closed-vent system and control device will be installed and in operation. The schedule must also include a rationale of why the installation cannot be completed at an earlier date. The implementation schedule must be kept on-site at the facility by the effective date that the facility becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(2) Up-to-date documentation of compliance with the process vent standards in § 261.1032, including:
(i) Information and data identifying all affected process vents, annual throughput and operating hours of each affected unit, estimated emission rates for each affected vent and for the overall facility (
i.e.,
the total emissions for all affected vents at the facility), and the approximate location within the facility of each affected unit (
e.g.,
identify the hazardous secondary material management units on a facility plot plan).
(ii) Information and data supporting determinations of vent emissions and emission reductions achieved by add-on control devices based on engineering
calculations or source tests. For the purpose of determining compliance, determinations of vent emissions and emission reductions must be made using operating parameter values (
e.g.,
temperatures, flow rates, or vent stream organic compounds and concentrations) that represent the conditions that result in maximum organic emissions, such as when the hazardous secondary material management unit is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur. If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material takes any action (
e.g.,
managing a material of different composition or increasing operating hours of affected hazardous secondary material management units) that would result in an increase in total organic emissions from affected process vents at the facility, then a new determination is required.
(3) Where a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material chooses to use test data to determine the organic removal efficiency or total organic compound concentration achieved by the control device, a performance test plan must be developed and include:
(i) A description of how it is determined that the planned test is going to be conducted when the hazardous secondary material management unit is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur. This shall include the estimated or design flow rate and organic content of each vent stream and define the acceptable operating ranges of key process and control device parameters during the test program.
(ii) A detailed engineering description of the closed-vent system and control device including:
(A) Manufacturer's name and model number of control device.
(B) Type of control device.
(C) Dimensions of the control device.
(D) Capacity.
(E) Construction materials.
(iii) A detailed description of sampling and monitoring procedures, including sampling and monitoring locations in the system, the equipment to be used, sampling and monitoring frequency, and planned analytical procedures for sample analysis.
(4) Documentation of compliance with § 261.1033 shall include the following information:
(i) A list of all information references and sources used in preparing the documentation.
(ii) Records, including the dates, of each compliance test required by § 261.1033(k).
(iii) If engineering calculations are used, a design analysis, specifications, drawings, schematics, and piping and instrumentation diagrams based on the appropriate sections of “APTI Course 415: Control of Gaseous Emissions” (incorporated by reference as specified in § 260.11) or other engineering texts acceptable to the Regional Administrator that present basic control device design information. Documentation provided by the control device manufacturer or vendor that describes the control device design in accordance with paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section may be used to comply with this requirement. The design analysis shall address the vent stream characteristics and control device operation parameters as specified below.
(A) For a thermal vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average temperature in the combustion zone and the combustion zone residence time.
(B) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average temperatures across the catalyst bed inlet and outlet.
(C) For a boiler or process heater, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also establish the design minimum and average flame zone temperatures, combustion zone residence time, and description of method and location where the vent stream is introduced into the combustion zone.
(D) For a flare, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate. The design analysis shall also consider the requirements specified in § 261.1033(d).
(E) For a condenser, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design outlet organic compound concentration level, design average temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream, and design average temperatures of the coolant fluid at the condenser inlet and outlet.
(F) For a carbon adsorption system such as a fixed-bed adsorber that regenerates the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, number and capacity of carbon beds, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon beds, design total steam flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, duration of the carbon bed steaming and cooling/drying cycles, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of carbon.
(G) For a carbon adsorption system such as a carbon canister that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device, the design analysis shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature. The design analysis shall also establish the design outlet organic concentration level, capacity of carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule.
(iv) A statement signed and dated by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material certifying that the operating parameters used in the design analysis reasonably represent the conditions that exist when the hazardous secondary material management unit is or would be operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur.
(v) A statement signed and dated by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material certifying that the control device is designed to operate at an efficiency of 95 percent or greater unless the total organic concentration limit of § 261.1032(a) is achieved at an efficiency less than 95 weight percent or the total organic emission limits of § 261.1032(a) for affected process vents at the facility can be attained by a control device involving vapor recovery at an efficiency less than 95 weight percent. A statement provided by the control device manufacturer or vendor certifying that the control equipment meets the design specifications may be used to comply with this requirement.
(vi) If performance tests are used to demonstrate compliance, all test results.
(c) Design documentation and monitoring, operating, and inspection information for each closed-vent system and control device required to comply with the provisions of this part shall be recorded and kept up-to-date at the facility. The information shall include:
(1) Description and date of each modification that is made to the closed-vent system or control device design.
(2) Identification of operating parameter, description of monitoring device, and diagram of monitoring sensor location or locations used to comply with § 261.1033 (f)(1) and (2).
(3) Monitoring, operating, and inspection information required by § 261.1033(f) through (k).
(4) Date, time, and duration of each period that occurs while the control device is operating when any monitored parameter exceeds the value established in the control device design analysis as specified below:
(i) For a thermal vapor incinerator designed to operate with a minimum residence time of 0.50 second at a minimum temperature of 760 °C, period when the combustion temperature is below 760 °C.
(ii) For a thermal vapor incinerator designed to operate with an organic emission reduction efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater, period when the combustion zone temperature is more than 28 °C below the design average combustion zone temperature established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section.
(iii) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, period when:
(A) Temperature of the vent stream at the catalyst bed inlet is more than 28 °C below the average temperature of the inlet vent stream established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, or
(B) Temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the design average temperature difference established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.
(iv) For a boiler or process heater, period when:
(A) Flame zone temperature is more than 28 °C below the design average flame zone temperature established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section, or
(B) Position changes where the vent stream is introduced to the combustion zone from the location established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) of this section.
(v) For a flare, period when the pilot flame is not ignited.
(vi) For a condenser that complies with § 261.1033(f)(2)(vi)(A), period when the organic compound concentration level or readings of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser are more than 20 percent greater than the design outlet organic compound concentration level established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(E) of this section.
(vii) For a condenser that complies with § 261.1033(f)(2)(vi)(B), period when:
(A) Temperature of the exhaust vent stream from the condenser is more than 6 °C above the design average exhaust vent stream temperature established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(E) of this section; or
(B) Temperature of the coolant fluid exiting the condenser is more than 6 °C above the design average coolant fluid temperature at the condenser outlet established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(E) of this section.
(viii) For a carbon adsorption system such as a fixed-bed carbon adsorber that regenerates the carbon bed directly on-site in the control device and complies with § 261.1033(f)(2)(vii)(A), period when the organic compound concentration level or readings of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the carbon bed are more than 20 percent greater than the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(F) of this section.
(ix) For a carbon adsorption system such as a fixed-bed carbon adsorber that regenerates the carbon bed directly on-site in the control device and complies with § 261.1033(f)(2)(vii)(B), period when the vent stream continues to flow through the control device beyond the predetermined carbon bed regeneration time established as a requirement of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(F) of this section.
(5) Explanation for each period recorded under paragraph (c)(4) of the cause for control device operating parameter exceeding the design value and the measures implemented to correct the control device operation.
(6) For a carbon adsorption system operated subject to requirements specified in § 261.1033(g) or (h)(2), date when existing carbon in the control device is replaced with fresh carbon.
(7) For a carbon adsorption system operated subject to requirements specified in § 261.1033(h)(1), a log that records:
(i) Date and time when control device is monitored for carbon breakthrough and the monitoring device reading.
(ii) Date when existing carbon in the control device is replaced with fresh carbon.
(8) Date of each control device startup and shutdown.
(9) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material designating any components of a closed-vent system as unsafe to monitor pursuant to § 261.1033(o) of this subpart shall record in a log that is kept at the facility the identification of closed-vent system components that are designated as unsafe to
monitor in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(o) of this subpart, an explanation for each closed-vent system component stating why the closed-vent system component is unsafe to monitor, and the plan for monitoring each closed-vent system component.
(10) When each leak is detected as specified in § 261.1033(l) of this subpart, the following information shall be recorded:
(i) The instrument identification number, the closed-vent system component identification number, and the operator name, initials, or identification number.
(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of first attempt to repair the leak.
(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(iv) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A after it is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.
(v) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(A) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.
(B) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked on-site before depletion and the reason for depletion.
(d) Records of the monitoring, operating, and inspection information required by paragraphs (c)(3) through (10) of this section shall be maintained by the owner or operator for at least 3 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, or record.
(e) For a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system, the Regional Administrator will specify the appropriate recordkeeping requirements.
(f) Up-to-date information and data used to determine whether or not a process vent is subject to the requirements in § 261.1032 including supporting documentation as required by § 261.1034(d)(2) when application of the knowledge of the nature of the hazardous secondary material stream or the process by which it was produced is used, shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility.
§§ 261.1036-261.1049
[Reserved]

# Subpart BB—Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.1050
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this subpart apply to equipment that contains hazardous secondary materials excluded under the remanufacturing exclusion at § 261.4(a)(27), unless the equipment operations are subject to the requirements of an applicable Clean Air Act regulation codified under 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63.
§ 261.1051
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms shall have the meaning given them in § 261.1031, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and 40 CFR parts 260-266.
§ 261.1052
Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each pump in light liquid service shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 261.1063(b), except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2) Each pump in light liquid service shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal.
(b)(1) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(2) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but
not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(2) A first attempt at repair (
e.g.,
tightening the packing gland) shall be made no later than five calendar days after each leak is detected.
(d) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, provided the following requirements are met:
(1) Each dual mechanical seal system must be:
(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure, or
(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 261.1060, or
(iii) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a hazardous secondary material stream with no detectable emissions to the atmosphere.
(2) The barrier fluid system must not be a hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations 10 percent or greater by weight.
(3) Each barrier fluid system must be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(4) Each pump must be checked by visual inspection, each calendar week, for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seals.
(5)(i) Each sensor as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section must be checked daily or be equipped with an audible alarm that must be checked monthly to ensure that it is functioning properly.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(6)(i) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal or the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both based on the criterion determined in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected.
(ii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(iii) A first attempt at repair (
e.g.,
relapping the seal) shall be made no later than five calendar days after each leak is detected.
(e) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 261.1064(g)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section if the pump meets the following requirements:
(1) Must have no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing.
(2) Must operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as measured by the methods specified in § 261.1063(c).
(3) Must be tested for compliance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times as requested by the Regional Administrator.
(f) If any pump is equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 261.1060, it is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
§ 261.1053
Standards: Compressors.
(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of total organic emissions to the atmosphere, except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be:
(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure, or
(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system that is connected by a closed-vent
system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 261.1060, or
(3) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a hazardous secondary material stream with no detectable emissions to atmosphere.
(c) The barrier fluid must not be a hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations 10 percent or greater by weight.
(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.
(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm that must be checked monthly to ensure that it is functioning properly unless the compressor is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site, in which case the sensor must be checked daily.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a leak is detected.
(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(2) A first attempt at repair (
e.g.,
tightening the packing gland) shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if it is equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 261.1060, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) Any compressor that is designated, as described in § 261.1064(g)(2), for no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section if the compressor:
(1) Is determined to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the method specified in § 261.1063(c).
(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times as requested by the Regional Administrator.
§ 261.1054
Standards: Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.
(a) Except during pressure releases, each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service shall be operated with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the method specified in § 261.1063(c).
(b)(1) After each pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be returned to a condition of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after each pressure release, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(2) No later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be monitored to confirm the condition of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the method specified in § 261.1063(c).
(c) Any pressure relief device that is equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting leakage from the pressure relief device to a control device as described in § 261.1060 is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 261.1055
Standards: Sampling connection systems.
(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system. This system shall collect the sample purge for return to the process or for
routing to the appropriate treatment system. Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.
(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall meet one of the following requirements:
(1) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line;
(2) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid; or
(3) Be designed and operated to capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a material management unit that complies with the applicable requirements of §§ 261.1084 through 264.1086 of this subpart or a control device that complies with the requirements of § 261.1060 of this subpart.
(c)
In-situ
sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 261.1056
Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.
(a)(1) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve.
(2) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring hazardous secondary material stream flow through the open-ended valve or line.
(b) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the hazardous secondary material stream end is closed before the second valve is closed.
(c) When a double block and bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section at all other times.
§ 261.1057
Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
(a) Each valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 261.1063(b) and shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section and §§ 261.1061 and 261.1062.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) Any valve for which a leak is not detected for two successive months may be monitored the first month of every succeeding quarter, beginning with the next quarter, until a leak is detected.
(2) If a leak is detected, the valve shall be monitored monthly until a leak is not detected for two successive months,
(d)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(e) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following best practices where practicable:
(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts.
(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts.
(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts.
(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.
(f) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 261.1064(g)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if the valve:
(1) Has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the hazardous secondary material stream.
(2) Is operated with emissions less than 500 ppm above background as determined by the method specified in § 261.1063(c).
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times as requested by the Regional Administrator.
(g) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 261.1064(h)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that the valve is unsafe to monitor because
monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material adheres to a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.
(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 261.1064(h)(2), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.
(2) The hazardous secondary material management unit within which the valve is located was in operation before January 13, 2015.
(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.
§ 261.1058
Standards: Pumps and valves in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and flanges and other connectors.
(a) Pumps and valves in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and flanges and other connectors shall be monitored within five days by the method specified in § 261.1063(b) if evidence of a potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 261.1059.
(2) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(d) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the best practices described under § 261.1057(e).
(e) Any connector that is inaccessible or is ceramic or ceramic-lined (
e.g.,
porcelain, glass, or glass-lined) is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and from the recordkeeping requirements of § 261.1064 of this subpart.
§ 261.1059
Standards: Delay of repair.
(a) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown. In such a case, repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.
(b) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed for equipment that is isolated from the hazardous secondary material management unit and that does not continue to contain or contact hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations at least 10 percent by weight.
(c) Delay of repair for valves will be allowed if:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair.
(2) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with § 261.1060.
(d) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:
(1) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system.
(2) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.
(e) Delay of repair beyond a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted.
Delay of repair beyond the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.
§ 261.1060
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
(a) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in a hazardous secondary material management units using closed-vent systems and control devices subject to this subpart shall comply with the provisions of § 261.1033 of this part.
(b)(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material at an existing facility who cannot install a closed-vent system and control device to comply with the provisions of this subpart on the effective date that the facility becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart must prepare an implementation schedule that includes dates by which the closed-vent system and control device will be installed and in operation. The controls must be installed as soon as possible, but the implementation schedule may allow up to 30 months after the effective date that the facility becomes subject to this subpart for installation and startup.
(2) Any unit that begins operation after July 13, 2015 and is subject to the provisions of this subpart when operation begins, must comply with the rules immediately (
i.e.,
must have control devices installed and operating on startup of the affected unit); the 30-month implementation schedule does not apply.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material at any facility in existence on the effective date of a statutory or regulatory amendment that renders the facility subject to this subpart shall comply with all requirements of this subpart as soon as practicable but no later than 30 months after the amendment's effective date. When control equipment required by this subpart cannot be installed and begin operation by the effective date of the amendment, the facility owner or operator shall prepare an implementation schedule that includes the following information: Specific calendar dates for award of contracts or issuance of purchase orders for the control equipment, initiation of on-site installation of the control equipment, completion of the control equipment installation, and performance of any testing to demonstrate that the installed equipment meets the applicable standards of this subpart. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall keep a copy of the implementation schedule at the facility.
(4) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary materials at facilities and units that become newly subject to the requirements of this subpart after January 13, 2015, due to an action other than those described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must comply with all applicable requirements immediately (
i.e.,
must have control devices installed and operating on the date the facility or unit becomes subject to this subpart; the 30-month implementation schedule does not apply).
§ 261.1061
Alternative standards for valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service: percentage of valves allowed to leak.
(a) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the requirements of § 261.1057 may elect to have all valves within a hazardous secondary material management unit comply with an alternative standard that allows no greater than 2 percent of the valves to leak.
(b) The following requirements shall be met if a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material decides to comply with the alternative standard of allowing 2 percent of valves to leak:
(1) A performance test as specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Regional Administrator.
(2) If a valve leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with § 261.1057(d) and (e).
(c) Performance tests shall be conducted in the following manner:
(1) All valves subject to the requirements in § 261.1057 within the hazardous secondary material management unit shall be monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in § 261.1063(b).
(2) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(3) The leak percentage shall be determined by dividing the number of valves subject to the requirements in § 261.1057 for which leaks are detected by the total number of valves subject to the requirements in § 261.1057 within the hazardous secondary material management unit.
§ 261.1062
Alternative standards for valves in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service: skip period leak detection and repair.
(a) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the requirements of § 261.1057 may elect for all valves within a hazardous secondary material management unit to comply with one of the alternative work practices specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(b)(1) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall comply with the requirements for valves, as described in § 261.1057, except as described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) After two consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percentage of valves leaking equal to or less than two percent, a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may begin to skip one of the quarterly leak detection periods (
i.e.,
monitor for leaks once every six months) for the valves subject to the requirements in § 261.1057 of this subpart.
(3) After five consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percentage of valves leaking equal to or less than two percent, a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may begin to skip three of the quarterly leak detection periods (
i.e.,
monitor for leaks once every year) for the valves subject to the requirements in § 261.1057 of this subpart.
(4) If the percentage of valves leaking is greater than two percent, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall monitor monthly in compliance with the requirements in § 261.1057, but may again elect to use this section after meeting the requirements of § 261.1057(c)(1).
§ 261.1063
Test methods and procedures.
(a) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the test methods and procedures requirements provided in this section.
(b) Leak detection monitoring, as required in §§ 261.1052-261.1062, shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) Monitoring shall comply with Reference Method 21 in 40 CFR part 60.
(2) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Reference Method 21.
(3) The instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Reference Method 21.
(4) Calibration gases shall be:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air).
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppm methane or n-hexane.
(5) The instrument probe shall be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as close to the interface as possible as described in Reference Method 21.
(c) When equipment is tested for compliance with no detectable emissions, as required in §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), 261.1054, and 261.1057(f), the test shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall apply.
(2) The background level shall be determined as set forth in Reference Method 21.
(3) The instrument probe shall be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as close to the interface as possible as described in Reference Method 21.
(4) The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppm for determining compliance.
(d) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material must determine, for each piece of equipment, whether the equipment contains or contacts a hazardous secondary material with organic concentration that equals or exceeds 10 percent by weight using the following:
(1) Methods described in ASTM Methods D 2267-88, E 169-87, E 168-88, E 260-85 (incorporated by reference under § 260.11);
(2) Method 9060A (incorporated by reference under 40 CFR 260.11) of “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste,” EPA Publication SW-846, for computing total organic concentration of the sample, or analyzed for its individual organic constituents; or
(3) Application of the knowledge of the nature of the hazardous secondary material stream or the process by which it was produced. Documentation of a material determination by knowledge is required. Examples of documentation that shall be used to support a determination under this provision include production process information documenting that no organic compounds are used, information that the material is generated by a process that is identical to a process at the same or another facility that has previously been demonstrated by direct measurement to have a total organic content less than 10 percent, or prior speciation analysis results on the same material stream where it can also be documented that no process changes have occurred since that analysis that could affect the material total organic concentration.
(e) If a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that a piece of equipment contains or contacts a hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations at least 10 percent by weight, the determination can be revised only after following the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.
(f) When a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and the Regional Administrator do not agree on whether a piece of equipment contains or contacts a hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations at least 10 percent by weight, the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section can be used to resolve the dispute.
(g) Samples used in determining the percent organic content shall be representative of the highest total organic content hazardous secondary material that is expected to be contained in or contact the equipment.
(h) To determine if pumps or valves are in light liquid service, the vapor pressures of constituents may be obtained from standard reference texts or may be determined by ASTM D-2879-86 (incorporated by reference under § 260.11).
(i) Performance tests to determine if a control device achieves 95 weight percent organic emission reduction shall comply with the procedures of § 261.1034(c)(1) through (4).
§ 261.1064
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)(1) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.
(2) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in more than one hazardous secondary material management unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these hazardous secondary material management units in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each hazardous secondary material management unit.
(b) Remanufacturer's and other person's that store or treat the hazardous secondary material must record and keep the following information at the facility:
(1) For each piece of equipment to which subpart BB of part 261 applies:
(i) Equipment identification number and hazardous secondary material management unit identification.
(ii) Approximate locations within the facility (
e.g.,
identify the hazardous secondary material management unit on a facility plot plan).
(iii) Type of equipment (
e.g.,
a pump or pipeline valve).
(iv) Percent-by-weight total organics in the hazardous secondary material stream at the equipment.
(v) Hazardous secondary material state at the equipment (
e.g.,
gas/vapor or liquid).
(vi) Method of compliance with the standard (
e.g.,
“monthly leak detection and repair” or “equipped with dual mechanical seals”).
(2) For facilities that comply with the provisions of § 261.1033(a)(2), an implementation schedule as specified in § 261.1033(a)(2).
(3) Where a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material chooses to use test data to demonstrate the organic removal efficiency or total organic compound concentration achieved by the control device, a performance test plan as specified in § 261.1035(b)(3).
(4) Documentation of compliance with § 261.1060, including the detailed design documentation or performance test results specified in § 261.1035(b)(4).
(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 261.1052, 261.1053, 261.1057, and 261.1058, the following requirements apply:
(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, the date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 261.1058(a), and the date the leak was detected, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.
(2) The identification on equipment, except on a valve, may be removed after it has been repaired.
(3) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for two successive months as specified in § 261.1057(c) and no leak has been detected during those two months.
(d) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 261.1052, 261.1053, 261.1057, and 261.1058, the following information shall be recorded in an inspection log and shall be kept at the facility:
(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number.
(2) The date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 261.1058(a).
(3) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.
(4) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(5) “Above 10,000” if the maximum instrument reading measured by the methods specified in § 261.1063(b) after each repair attempt is equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm.
(6) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(7) Documentation supporting the delay of repair of a valve in compliance with § 261.1059(c).
(8) The signature of the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.
(9) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.
(10) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(e) Design documentation and monitoring, operating, and inspection information for each closed-vent system and control device required to comply with the provisions of § 261.1060 shall be recorded and kept up-to-date at the facility as specified in § 261.1035(c). Design documentation is specified in § 261.1035(c)(1) and (2) and monitoring, operating, and inspection information in § 261.1035(c)(3) through (8).
(f) For a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system, the Regional Administrator will specify the appropriate recordkeeping requirements.
(g) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through
261.1060 shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility:
(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except welded fittings) subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material elects to designate for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, under the provisions of §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), and 261.1057(f).
(ii) The designation of this equipment as subject to the requirements of §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), or 261.1057(f) shall be signed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material.
(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 261.1054(a).
(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test required in §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), 261.1054, and 261.1057(f).
(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.
(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.
(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.
(6) Identification, either by list or location (area or group) of equipment that contains or contacts hazardous secondary material with an organic concentration of at least 10 percent by weight for less than 300 hours per calendar year.
(h) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 261.1057(g) and (h) shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility:
(1) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as unsafe to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is unsafe to monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve.
(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult to monitor, and the planned schedule for monitoring each valve.
(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility for valves complying with § 261.1062:
(1) A schedule of monitoring.
(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.
(j) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at in the facility:
(1) Criteria required in §§ 261.1052(d)(5)(ii) and 261.1053(e)(2) and an explanation of the design criteria.
(2) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.
(k) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility for use in determining exemptions as provided in the applicability section of this subpart and other specific subparts:
(1) An analysis determining the design capacity of the hazardous secondary material management unit.
(2) A statement listing the hazardous secondary material influent to and effluent from each hazardous secondary material management unit subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through 261.1060 and an analysis determining whether these hazardous secondary materials are heavy liquids.
(3) An up-to-date analysis and the supporting information and data used to determine whether or not equipment is subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through 261.1060. The record shall include supporting documentation as required by § 261.1063(d)(3) when application of the knowledge of the nature of the hazardous secondary material stream or the process by which it was produced is used. If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material takes any action (
e.g.,
changing the process that produced the material) that could result in an increase in the total organic content of the material contained in or contacted by equipment determined not to be subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through 261.1060, then a new determination is required.
(l) Records of the equipment leak information required by paragraph (d) of this section and the operating information required by paragraph (e) of this section need be kept only three years.
(m) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material at a facility with equipment that is subject to this subpart and to regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 may elect to determine compliance with this subpart either by documentation pursuant to § 261.1064 of this subpart, or by documentation of compliance with the regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 pursuant to the relevant provisions of the regulations at 40 part 60, part 61, or part 63. The documentation of compliance under regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 shall be kept with or made readily available at the facility.
§§ 261.1065-261.1079
[Reserved]

# Subpart CC—Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers

# Source:
80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.1080
Applicability.
(a) The regulations in this subpart apply to tanks and containers that contain hazardous secondary materials excluded under the remanufacturing exclusion at § 261.4(a)(27), unless the tanks and containers are equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of an applicable Clean Air Act regulations codified under 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 261.1081
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and parts 260 through 266 of this chapter.
Average volatile organic concentration
or
average VO concentration
means the mass-weighted average volatile organic concentration of a hazardous secondary material as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart.
Closure device
means a cap, hatch, lid, plug, seal, valve, or other type of fitting that blocks an opening in a cover such that when the device is secured in the closed position it prevents or reduces air pollutant emissions to the atmosphere. Closure devices include devices that are detachable from the cover (
e.g.,
a sampling port cap), manually operated (
e.g.,
a hinged access lid or hatch), or automatically operated (
e.g.,
a spring-loaded pressure relief valve).
Continuous seal
means a seal that forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the edge of the floating roof and the wall of a tank. A continuous seal may be a vapor-mounted seal, liquid-mounted seal, or metallic shoe seal. A continuous seal may be constructed of fastened segments so as to form a continuous seal.
Cover
means a device that provides a continuous barrier over the hazardous secondary material managed in a unit to prevent or reduce air pollutant emissions to the atmosphere. A cover may have openings (such as access hatches, sampling ports, gauge wells) that are necessary for operation, inspection, maintenance, and repair of the unit on which the cover is used. A cover may be a separate piece of equipment which can be detached and removed from the unit or a cover may be formed by structural features permanently integrated into the design of the unit.
Empty hazardous secondary material container
means:
(1) A container from which all hazardous secondary materials have been removed that can be removed using the practices commonly employed to remove materials from that type of container,
e.g.,
pouring, pumping, and aspirating, and no more than 2.5 centimeters (one inch) of residue remain on the bottom of the container or inner liner;
(2) A container that is less than or equal to 119 gallons in size and no more than 3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the container or inner liner; or
(3) A container that is greater than 119 gallons in size and no more than 0.3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the container or inner liner.
Enclosure
means a structure that surrounds a tank or container, captures
organic vapors emitted from the tank or container, and vents the captured vapors through a closed-vent system to a control device.
External floating roof
means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests on the surface of the material managed in a tank with no fixed roof.
Fixed roof
means a cover that is mounted on a unit in a stationary position and does not move with fluctuations in the level of the material managed in the unit.
Floating membrane cover
means a cover consisting of a synthetic flexible membrane material that rests upon and is supported by the hazardous secondary material being managed in a surface impoundment.
Floating roof
means a cover consisting of a double deck, pontoon single deck, or internal floating cover which rests upon and is supported by the material being contained, and is equipped with a continuous seal.
Hard-piping
means pipe or tubing that is manufactured and properly installed in accordance with relevant standards and good engineering practices.
In light material service
means the container is used to manage a material for which both of the following conditions apply: The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic constituents in the material is greater than 0.3 kilopascals (kPa) at 20 °C; and the total concentration of the pure organic constituents having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight.
Internal floating roof
means a cover that rests or floats on the material surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a tank that has a fixed roof.
Liquid-mounted seal
means a foam or liquid-filled primary seal mounted in contact with the hazardous secondary material between the tank wall and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank.
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
Material determination
means performing all applicable procedures in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart to determine whether a hazardous secondary material meets standards specified in this subpart. Examples of a material determination include performing the procedures in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination; the average VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material treatment and comparing the results to the exit concentration limit specified for the process used to treat the hazardous secondary material; the organic reduction efficiency and the organic biodegradation efficiency for a biological process used to treat a hazardous secondary material and comparing the results to the applicable standards; or the maximum volatile organic vapor pressure for a hazardous secondary material in a tank and comparing the results to the applicable standards.
Maximum organic vapor pressure
means the sum of the individual organic constituent partial pressures exerted by the material contained in a tank, at the maximum vapor pressure-causing conditions (
i.e.,
temperature, agitation, pH effects of combining materials, etc.) reasonably expected to occur in the tank. For the purpose of this subpart, maximum organic vapor pressure is determined using the procedures specified in § 261.1084(c) of this subpart.
Metallic shoe seal
means a continuous seal that is constructed of metal sheets which are held vertically against the wall of the tank by springs, weighted levers, or other mechanisms and is connected to the floating roof by braces or other means. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.
No detectable organic emissions
means no escape of organics to the atmosphere as determined using the procedure specified in § 261.1084(d) of this subpart.
Point of material origination
means as follows:
(1) When the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material is the generator of the hazardous secondary material, the point of material origination means the point where a material produced by a system, process, or material management unit is determined to be a hazardous secondary material excluded under § 261.4(a)(27).
Note to paragraph (1) of the definition of
Point of material origination:
In this case, this term is being used in a manner similar to the use of the term “point of generation” in air standards established under authority of the Clean Air Act in 40 CFR parts 60, 61, and 63.
(2) When the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material is not the generator of the hazardous secondary material, point of material origination means the point where the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material accepts delivery or takes possession of the hazardous secondary material.
Safety device
means a closure device such as a pressure relief valve, frangible disc, fusible plug, or any other type of device which functions exclusively to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation to a unit or its air emission control equipment by venting gases or vapors directly to the atmosphere during unsafe conditions resulting from an unplanned, accidental, or emergency event. For the purpose of this subpart, a safety device is not used for routine venting of gases or vapors from the vapor headspace underneath a cover such as during filling of the unit or to adjust the pressure in this vapor headspace in response to normal daily diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations. A safety device is designed to remain in a closed position during normal operations and open only when the internal pressure, or another relevant parameter, exceeds the device threshold setting applicable to the air emission control equipment as determined by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material based on manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.
Single-seal system
means a floating roof having one continuous seal. This seal may be vapor-mounted, liquid-mounted, or a metallic shoe seal.
Vapor-mounted seal
means a continuous seal that is mounted such that there is a vapor space between the hazardous secondary material in the unit and the bottom of the seal.
Volatile organic concentration
or
VO concentration
means the fraction by weight of the volatile organic compounds contained in a hazardous secondary material expressed in terms of parts per million (ppmw) as determined by direct measurement or by knowledge of the material in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart. For the purpose of determining the VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material, organic compounds with a Henry's law constant value of at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in the liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) (which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10
−6
atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3
) at 25 degrees Celsius must be included.
§ 261.1082
Standards: General.
(a) This section applies to the management of hazardous secondary material in tanks and containers subject to this subpart.
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from each hazardous secondary material management unit in accordance with standards specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087 of this subpart, as applicable to the hazardous secondary material management unit, except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) A tank or container is exempt from standards specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087 of this subpart, as applicable, provided that the hazardous secondary material management unit is a tank or container for which all hazardous secondary material entering
the unit has an average VO concentration at the point of material origination of less than 500 parts per million by weight (ppmw). The average VO concentration shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 261.1083(a) of this subpart. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall review and update, as necessary, this determination at least once every 12 months following the date of the initial determination for the hazardous secondary material streams entering the unit.
§ 261.1083
Material determination procedures.
(a)
Material determination procedure to determine average volatile organic (VO) concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination.
(1) Determining average VO concentration at the point of material origination. A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall determine the average VO concentration at the point of material origination for each hazardous secondary material placed in a hazardous secondary material management unit exempted under the provisions of § 261.1082(c) from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087, as applicable to the hazardous secondary material management unit.
(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the material stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the hazardous secondary material stream is placed in a hazardous secondary material management unit exempted under the provisions of § 261.1082(c) from using air emission controls, and thereafter an initial determination of the average VO concentration of the material stream shall be made for each averaging period that a hazardous secondary material is managed in the unit; and
(ii) Perform a new material determination whenever changes to the source generating the material stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous secondary material to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the applicable VO concentration limits specified in § 261.1082 of this subpart.
(2)
Determination of average VO concentration using direct measurement or knowledge.
For a material determination that is required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the average VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by knowledge as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(3)
Direct measurement to determine average VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination
—(i)
Identification.
The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall identify and record in a log that is kept at the facility the point of material origination for the hazardous secondary material.
(ii)
Sampling.
Samples of the hazardous secondary material stream shall be collected at the point of material origination in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the material and in the subsequent sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method.
(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous secondary material stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines is appropriate for the hazardous secondary material stream but shall not exceed 1 year.
(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected and analyzed for a hazardous secondary material determination. All of the samples for a given material determination shall be collected within a one-hour period. The average of the four or more sample results constitutes
a material determination for the material stream. One or more material determinations may be required to represent the complete range of material compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous secondary material stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in material quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.
(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous secondary material stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process, and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained at the facility. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures for a total volatile organic constituent concentration may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(D) Sufficient information, as specified in the “site sampling plan” required under paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, shall be prepared and recorded to document the material quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous secondary material represented by the samples.
(iii)
Analysis.
Each collected sample shall be prepared and analyzed in accordance with Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A for the total concentration of volatile organic constituents, or using one or more methods when the individual organic compound concentrations are identified and summed and the summed material concentration accounts for and reflects all organic compounds in the material with Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10
−6
atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3
] at 25 degrees Celsius. At the discretion of the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material, the test data obtained may be adjusted by any appropriate method to discount any contribution to the total volatile organic concentration that is a result of including a compound with a Henry's law constant value of less than 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius. To adjust these data, the measured concentration of each individual chemical constituent contained in the material is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f
m25D
). If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material elects to adjust the test data, the adjustment must be made to all individual chemical constituents with a Henry's law constant value greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X at 25 degrees Celsius contained in the material. Constituent-specific adjustment factors (f
m25D
) can be obtained by contacting the Waste and Chemical Processes Group, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Other test methods may be used if they meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section and provided the requirement to reflect all organic compounds in the material with Henry's law constant values greater than or equal to 0.1 Y/X [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10
−6
atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3
] at 25 degrees Celsius, is met.
(A) Any EPA standard method that has been validated in accordance with “Alternative Validation Procedure for EPA Waste and Wastewater Methods,” 40 CFR part 63, appendix D.
(B) Any other analysis method that has been validated in accordance with the procedures specified in Section 5.1 or Section 5.3, and the corresponding calculations in Section 6.1 or Section 6.3, of Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. The data are acceptable if they meet the criteria specified in Section 6.1.5 or Section 6.3.3 of Method 301. If correction is required under section 6.3.3 of Method 301, the data are acceptable if the correction factor is within the range 0.7 to 1.30. Other sections of Method 301 are not required.
(iv)
Calculations.
(A) The average VO concentration (C) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all material determinations conducted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section and the following equation:
ER13JA15.002
Where:
C = Average VO concentration of the hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination on a mass-weighted basis, ppmw.
i = Individual material determination “i” of the hazardous secondary material.
n = Total number of material determinations of the hazardous secondary material conducted for the averaging period (not to exceed 1 year).
Q
i
= Mass quantity of hazardous secondary material stream represented by C
i
, kg/hr.
Q
T
= Total mass quantity of hazardous secondary material during the averaging period, kg/hr.
C
i
= Measured VO concentration of material determination “i” as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section (
i.e.
the average of the four or more samples specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section), ppmw.
(B) For the purpose of determining C
i
, for individual material samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall account for VO concentrations determined to be below the limit of detection of the analytical method by using the following VO concentration:
(
1
) If Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used for the analysis, one-half the blank value determined in the method at section 4.4 of Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(
2
) If any other analytical method is used, one-half the sum of the limits of detection established for each organic constituent in the material that has a Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 × 10
−6
atmospheres/gram-mole/m
3
] at 25 degrees Celsius.
(4)
Use of knowledge by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to determine average VO concentration of a hazardous secondary material at the point of material origination.
(i) Documentation shall be prepared that presents the information used as the basis for the knowledge by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material of the hazardous secondary material stream's average VO concentration. Examples of information that may be used as the basis for knowledge include: Material balances for the source or process generating the hazardous secondary material stream; constituent-specific chemical test data for the hazardous secondary material stream from previous testing that are still applicable to the current material stream; previous test data for other locations managing the same type of material stream; or other knowledge based on information included in shipping papers or material certification notices.
(ii) If test data are used as the basis for knowledge, then the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall document the test method, sampling protocol, and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability are accounted for in the determination of the average VO concentration. For example, a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may use organic concentration test data for the hazardous secondary material stream that are validated in accordance with Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A as the basis for knowledge of the material.
(iii) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous
secondary material using chemical constituent-specific concentration test data as the basis for knowledge of the hazardous secondary material may adjust the test data to the corresponding average VO concentration value which would have been obtained had the material samples been analyzed using Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual chemical constituent contained in the material is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f
m25D
).
(iv) In the event that the Regional Administrator and the remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material disagree on a determination of the average VO concentration for a hazardous secondary material stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of average VO concentration using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Regional Administrator may perform or request that the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material perform this determination using direct measurement. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may choose one or more appropriate methods to analyze each collected sample in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Procedure to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous secondary material in a tank.
(1) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for each hazardous secondary material placed in a tank using Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with standards specified in § 261.1084(c) of this subpart.
(2) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall use either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or knowledge of the waste as specified by paragraph (c)(4) of this section to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure which is representative of the hazardous secondary material composition stored or treated in the tank.
(3) Direct measurement to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous secondary material.
(i)
Sampling.
A sufficient number of samples shall be collected to be representative of the hazardous secondary material contained in the tank. All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous secondary material are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained at the facility. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(ii)
Analysis.
Any appropriate one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material:
(A) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A;
(B) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Publication 2517, Third Edition, February 1989, “Evaporative Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks,” (incorporated by reference—refer to § 260.11 of this chapter);
(C) Methods obtained from standard reference texts;
(D) ASTM Method 2879-92 (incorporated by reference—refer to § 260.11 of this chapter); and
(E) Any other method approved by the Regional Administrator.
(4) Use of knowledge to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material. Documentation shall be prepared and recorded that presents the information used as the basis for the knowledge by the remanufacturer or other person
that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material that the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit listed in § 261.1084(b)(1)(i) for the applicable tank design capacity category. An example of information that may be used is documentation that the hazardous secondary material is generated by a process for which at other locations it previously has been determined by direct measurement that the hazardous secondary material's waste maximum organic vapor pressure is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit for the appropriate tank design capacity category.
(d) Procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart:
(1) The test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Each potential leak interface (
i.e.,
a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the cover and associated closure devices shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with covers and closure devices include, but are not limited to: The interface of the cover and its foundation mounting; the periphery of any opening on the cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure relief valve.
(2) The test shall be performed when the unit contains a hazardous secondary material having an organic concentration representative of the range of concentrations for the hazardous secondary material expected to be managed in the unit. During the test, the cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.
(3) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the organic constituents in the hazardous secondary material placed in the hazardous secondary management unit, not for each individual organic constituent.
(4) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(5) Calibration gases shall be as follows:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv hydrocarbon in air), and
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppmv methane or n-hexane.
(6) The background level shall be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
(7) Each potential leak interface shall be checked by traversing the instrument probe around the potential leak interface as close to the interface as possible, as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. In the case when the configuration of the cover or closure device prevents a complete traverse of the interface, all accessible portions of the interface shall be sampled. In the case when the configuration of the closure device prevents any sampling at the interface and the device is equipped with an enclosed extension or horn (
e.g.,
some pressure relief devices), the instrument probe inlet shall be placed at approximately the center of the exhaust area to the atmosphere.
(8) The arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 500 ppmv except when monitoring a seal around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, in which case the comparison shall be as specified in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. If the difference is less than 500 ppmv, then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions.
(9) For the seals around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 10,000 ppmw. If the difference is less than 10,000 ppmw,
then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.1084
Standards: tanks.
(a) The provisions of this section apply to the control of air pollutant emissions from tanks for which § 261.1082(b) of this subpart references the use of this section for such air emission control.
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from each tank subject to this section in accordance with the following requirements as applicable:
(1) For a tank that manages hazardous secondary material that meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from the tank in accordance with the Tank Level 1 controls specified in paragraph (c) of this section or the Tank Level 2 controls specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(i) The hazardous secondary material in the tank has a maximum organic vapor pressure which is less than the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank's design capacity category as follows:
(A) For a tank design capacity equal to or greater than 151 m
3
, the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank is 5.2 kPa.
(B) For a tank design capacity equal to or greater than 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
, the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank is 27.6 kPa.
(C) For a tank design capacity less than 75 m
3
, the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank is 76.6 kPa.
(ii) The hazardous secondary material in the tank is not heated by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to a temperature that is greater than the temperature at which the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material is determined for the purpose of complying with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For a tank that manages hazardous secondary material that does not meet all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from the tank by using Tank Level 2 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. An example of tanks required to use Tank Level 2 controls is a tank for which the hazardous secondary material in the tank has a maximum organic vapor pressure that is equal to or greater than the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank's design capacity category as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(c) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treats the hazardous secondary material controlling air pollutant emissions from a tank using Tank Level 1 controls shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats that hazardous secondary material shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for a hazardous secondary material to be managed in the tank using Tank Level 1 controls before the first time the hazardous secondary material is placed in the tank. The maximum organic vapor pressure shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 261.1083(c) of this subpart. Thereafter, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform a new determination whenever changes to the hazardous secondary material managed in the tank could potentially cause the maximum organic vapor pressure to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the maximum organic vapor pressure limit for the tank design capacity category specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, as applicable to the tank.
(2) The tank shall be equipped with a fixed roof designed to meet the following specifications:
(i) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be designed to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the hazardous secondary material in the tank. The fixed roof may be a separate cover installed on the tank (
e.g.,
a removable cover mounted on an open-top tank) or may be an integral part of the tank structural design (
e.g.,
a horizontal cylindrical tank equipped with a hatch).
(ii) The fixed roof shall be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between roof section joints or between the interface of the roof edge and the tank wall.
(iii) Each opening in the fixed roof, and any manifold system associated with the fixed roof, shall be either:
(A) Equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device; or
(B) Connected by a closed-vent system that is vented to a control device. The control device shall remove or destroy organics in the vent stream, and shall be operating whenever hazardous secondary material is managed in the tank, except as provided for in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) During periods when it is necessary to provide access to the tank for performing the activities of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, venting of the vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof to the control device is not required, opening of closure devices is allowed, and removal of the fixed roof is allowed. Following completion of the activity, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable, and resume operation of the control device.
(
2
) During periods of routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations, and for removal of accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of the tank.
(iv) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the fixed roof and closure devices throughout their intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the fixed roof and closure devices shall include: organic vapor permeability, the effects of any contact with the hazardous secondary material or its vapors managed in the tank; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the tank on which the fixed roof is installed.
(3) Whenever a hazardous secondary material is in the tank, the fixed roof shall be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position except as follows:
(i) Opening of closure devices or removal of the fixed roof is allowed at the following times:
(A) To provide access to the tank for performing routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to sample the liquid in the tank, or when a worker needs to open a hatch to maintain or repair equipment. Following completion of the activity, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable, to the tank.
(B) To remove accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of tank.
(ii) Opening of a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations for the purpose of maintaining the tank internal pressure in accordance with the tank design specifications. The device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions when the device is secured in the closed position. The settings at which the device opens shall be established such that
the device remains in the closed position whenever the tank internal pressure is within the internal pressure operating range determined by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material based on the tank manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials. Examples of normal operating conditions that may require these devices to open are during those times when the tank internal pressure exceeds the internal pressure operating range for the tank as a result of loading operations or diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations.
(iii) Opening of a safety device, as defined in § 261.1081, is allowed at any time conditions require doing so to avoid an unsafe condition.
(4) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect the air emission control equipment in accordance with the following requirements.
(i) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the tank wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform an initial inspection of the fixed roof and its closure devices on or before the date that the tank becomes subject to this section. Thereafter, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the inspections at least once every year except under the special conditions provided for in paragraph (l) of this section.
(iii) In the event that a defect is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.
(iv) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1089(b) of this subpart.
(d) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material controlling air pollutant emissions from a tank using Tank Level 2 controls shall use one of the following tanks:
(1) A fixed-roof tank equipped with an internal floating roof in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) A tank equipped with an external floating roof in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section;
(3) A tank vented through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section;
(4) A pressure tank designed and operated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (h) of this section; or
(5) A tank located inside an enclosure that is vented through a closed-vent system to an enclosed combustion control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (i) of this section.
(e) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who controls air pollutant emissions from a tank using a fixed roof with an internal floating roof shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The tank shall be equipped with a fixed roof and an internal floating roof in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) The internal floating roof shall be designed to float on the liquid surface except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports.
(ii) The internal floating roof shall be equipped with a continuous seal between the wall of the tank and the floating roof edge that meets either of the following requirements:
(A) A single continuous seal that is either a liquid-mounted seal or a metallic shoe seal, as defined in § 261.1081; or
(B) Two continuous seals mounted one above the other. The lower seal may be a vapor-mounted seal.
(iii) The internal floating roof shall meet the following specifications:
(A) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.
(B) Each opening in the internal floating roof shall be equipped with a gasketed cover or a gasketed lid except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains.
(C) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening.
(D) Each automatic bleeder vent and rim space vent shall be gasketed.
(E) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover.
(F) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall operate the tank in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be completed as soon as practical.
(ii) Automatic bleeder vents are to be set closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the leg supports.
(iii) Prior to filling the tank, each cover, access hatch, gauge float well or lid on any opening in the internal floating roof shall be bolted or fastened closed (
i.e.,
no visible gaps). Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect the internal floating roof in accordance with the procedures specified as follows:
(i) The floating roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to: The internal floating roof is not floating on the surface of the liquid inside the tank; liquid has accumulated on top of the internal floating roof; any portion of the roof seals have detached from the roof rim; holes, tears, or other openings are visible in the seal fabric; the gaskets no longer close off the hazardous secondary material surface from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect the internal floating roof components as follows except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section:
(A) Visually inspect the internal floating roof components through openings on the fixed-roof (
e.g.,
manholes and roof hatches) at least once every 12 months after initial fill, and
(B) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, primary seal, secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the tank is emptied and degassed and at least every 10 years.
(iii) As an alternative to performing the inspections specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section for an internal floating roof equipped with two continuous seals mounted one above the other, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous
secondary material may visually inspect the internal floating roof, primary and secondary seals, gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the tank is emptied and degassed and at least every five years.
(iv) Prior to each inspection required by paragraph (e)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall notify the Regional Administrator in advance of each inspection to provide the Regional Administrator with the opportunity to have an observer present during the inspection. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall notify the Regional Administrator of the date and location of the inspection as follows:
(A) Prior to each visual inspection of an internal floating roof in a tank that has been emptied and degassed, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least 30 calendar days before refilling the tank except when an inspection is not planned as provided for in paragraph (e)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.
(B) When a visual inspection is not planned and the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days before refilling the tank, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall notify the Regional Administrator as soon as possible, but no later than seven calendar days before refilling of the tank. This notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by a written explanation for why the inspection is unplanned. Alternatively, written notification, including the explanation for the unplanned inspection, may be sent so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least seven calendar days before refilling the tank.
(v) In the event that a defect is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.
(vi) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1089(b) of this subpart.
(4) Safety devices, as defined in § 261.1081, may be installed and operated as necessary on any tank complying with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(f) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who controls air pollutant emissions from a tank using an external floating roof shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall design the external floating roof in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) The external floating roof shall be designed to float on the liquid surface except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports.
(ii) The floating roof shall be equipped with two continuous seals, one above the other, between the wall of the tank and the roof edge. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.
(A) The primary seal shall be a liquid-mounted seal or a metallic shoe seal, as defined in 40 CFR 261.1081. The total area of the gaps between the tank wall and the primary seal shall not exceed 212 square centimeters (cm
2
) per meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of these gaps shall not exceed 3.8 centimeters (cm). If a metallic shoe seal is used for the primary seal, the metallic shoe seal shall be designed so that one end extends into the liquid in the tank and the other end extends a vertical distance of at least 61 centimeters above the liquid surface.
(B) The secondary seal shall be mounted above the primary seal and cover the annular space between the floating roof and the wall of the tank. The total area of the gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 square centimeters (cm
2
) per meter of tank diameter, and
the width of any portion of these gaps shall not exceed 1.3 centimeters (cm).
(iii) The external floating roof shall meet the following specifications:
(A) Except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents, each opening in a noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the liquid surface.
(B) Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof shall be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal, or lid.
(C) Each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be equipped with a cover designed to be bolted or fastened when the cover is secured in the closed position.
(D) Each automatic bleeder vent and each rim space vent shall be equipped with a gasket.
(E) Each roof drain that empties into the liquid managed in the tank shall be equipped with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.
(F) Each unslotted and slotted guide pole well shall be equipped with a gasketed sliding cover or a flexible fabric sleeve seal.
(G) Each unslotted guide pole shall be equipped with a gasketed cap on the end of the pole.
(H) Each slotted guide pole shall be equipped with a gasketed float or other device which closes off the liquid surface from the atmosphere.
(I) Each gauge hatch and each sample well shall be equipped with a gasketed cover.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall operate the tank in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) When the floating roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be completed as soon as practical.
(ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof shall be secured and maintained in a closed position at all times except when the closure device must be open for access.
(iii) Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened when secured in the closed position.
(iv) Automatic bleeder vents shall be set closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the leg supports.
(v) Rim space vents shall be set to open only at those times that the roof is being floated off the roof leg supports or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(vi) The cap on the end of each unslotted guide pole shall be secured in the closed position at all times except when measuring the level or collecting samples of the liquid in the tank.
(vii) The cover on each gauge hatch or sample well shall be secured in the closed position at all times except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.
(viii) Both the primary seal and the secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the tank in a continuous fashion except during inspections.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect the external floating roof in accordance with the procedures specified as follows:
(i) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall measure the external floating roof seal gaps in accordance with the following requirements:
(A) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the primary seal within 60 calendar days after initial operation of the tank following installation of the floating roof and, thereafter, at least once every 5 years.
(B) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal within 60 calendar days after initial operation of the tank following installation
of the floating roof and, thereafter, at least once every year.
(C) If a tank ceases to hold hazardous secondary material for a period of 1 year or more, subsequent introduction of hazardous secondary material into the tank shall be considered an initial operation for the purposes of paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(D) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall determine the total surface area of gaps in the primary seal and in the secondary seal individually using the following procedure:
(
1
) The seal gap measurements shall be performed at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof supports.
(
2
) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured around the entire perimeter of the floating roof in each place where a 0.32-centimeter (cm) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the wall of the tank and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.
(
3
) For a seal gap measured under paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the gap surface area shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the tank wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.
(
4
) The total gap area shall be calculated by adding the gap surface areas determined for each identified gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually, and then dividing the sum for each seal type by the nominal diameter of the tank. These total gap areas for the primary seal and secondary seal are then compared to the respective standards for the seal type as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.
(E) In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.
(F) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1089(b) of this subpart.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the external floating roof in accordance with the following requirements:
(A) The floating roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to: Holes, tears, or other openings in the rim seal or seal fabric of the floating roof; a rim seal detached from the floating roof; all or a portion of the floating roof deck being submerged below the surface of the liquid in the tank; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.
(B) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform an initial inspection of the external floating roof and its closure devices on or before the date that the tank becomes subject to this section. Thereafter, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the inspections at least once every year except for the special conditions provided for in paragraph (l) of this section.
(C) In the event that a defect is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.
(D) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1089(b) of this subpart.
(iii) Prior to each inspection required by paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall notify the Regional Administrator in advance of each inspection to provide the Regional Administrator with the opportunity to have an observer present during the inspection. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall notify the Regional Administrator of the date and location of the inspection as follows:
(A) Prior to each inspection to measure external floating roof seal gaps as required under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least 30 calendar days before the date the measurements are scheduled to be performed.
(B) Prior to each visual inspection of an external floating roof in a tank that has been emptied and degassed, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least 30 calendar days before refilling the tank except when an inspection is not planned as provided for in paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.
(C) When a visual inspection is not planned and the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days before refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator as soon as possible, but no later than seven calendar days before refilling of the tank. This notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by a written explanation for why the inspection is unplanned. Alternatively, written notification, including the explanation for the unplanned inspection, may be sent so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least seven calendar days before refilling the tank.
(4) Safety devices, as defined in § 261.1081, may be installed and operated as necessary on any tank complying with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(g) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who controls air pollutant emissions from a tank by venting the tank to a control device shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The tank shall be covered by a fixed roof and vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be designed to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid in the tank.
(ii) Each opening in the fixed roof not vented to the control device shall be equipped with a closure device. If the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof is less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, the closure devices shall be designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the cover opening and the closure device. If the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof is equal to or greater than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, the closure device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions.
(iii) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the fixed roof and closure devices throughout their intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the fixed roof and closure devices shall include: Organic vapor permeability, the effects of any contact with the liquid and its vapor managed in the tank; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture,
and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the tank on which the fixed roof is installed.
(iv) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(2) Whenever a hazardous secondary material is in the tank, the fixed roof shall be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position and the vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof vented to the control device except as follows:
(i) Venting to the control device is not required, and opening of closure devices or removal of the fixed roof is allowed at the following times:
(A) To provide access to the tank for performing routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to sample liquid in the tank, or when a worker needs to open a hatch to maintain or repair equipment. Following completion of the activity, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable, to the tank.
(B) To remove accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of a tank.
(ii) Opening of a safety device, as defined in § 261.1081, is allowed at any time conditions require doing so to avoid an unsafe condition.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect and monitor the air emission control equipment in accordance with the following procedures:
(i) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to check for defects that could result in air pollutant emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the tank wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.
(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be inspected and monitored by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in accordance with the procedures specified in § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(iii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform an initial inspection of the air emission control equipment on or before the date that the tank becomes subject to this section. Thereafter, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the inspections at least once every year except for the special conditions provided for in paragraph (l) of this section.
(iv) In the event that a defect is detected, the remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.
(v) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1089(b) of this subpart.
(h) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who controls air pollutant emissions by using a pressure tank shall meet the following requirements.
(1) The tank shall be designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the tank during filling of the tank to its design capacity.
(2) All tank openings shall be equipped with closure devices designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions as determined using the procedure specified in § 261.1083(d) of this subpart.
(3) Whenever a hazardous secondary material is in the tank, the tank shall be operated as a closed system that does not vent to the atmosphere except under either or the following conditions as specified in paragraph (h)(3)(i) or (h)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) At those times when opening of a safety device, as defined in § 261.1081 of this subpart, is required to avoid an unsafe condition.
(ii) At those times when purging of inerts from the tank is required and the purge stream is routed to a closed-vent system and control device designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(i) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who controls air pollutant emissions by using an enclosure vented through a closed-vent system to an enclosed combustion control device shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The tank shall be located inside an enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of material into or out of the enclosure by conveyor, vehicles, or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or direct airflow into the enclosure. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.
(2) The enclosure shall be vented through a closed-vent system to an enclosed combustion control device that is designed and operated in accordance with the standards for either a vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater specified in § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(3) Safety devices, as defined in § 261.1081, may be installed and operated as necessary on any enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.
(4) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent system and control device as specified in § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(j) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall transfer hazardous secondary material to a tank subject to this section in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) Transfer of hazardous secondary material, except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, to the tank from another tank subject to this section shall be conducted using continuous hard-piping or another closed system that does not allow exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere. For the purpose of complying with this provision, an individual drain system is considered to be a closed system when it meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart RR—National Emission Standards for Individual Drain Systems.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section do not apply when transferring a hazardous secondary material to the tank under any of the following conditions:
(i) The hazardous secondary material meets the average VO concentration conditions specified in § 261.1082(c) at the point of material origination.
(ii) The hazardous secondary material has been treated by an organic destruction or removal process to meet the requirements in § 264.1082(c)(2).
(iii) The hazardous secondary material meets the requirements of § 264.1082(c)(4).
(k) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair each defect detected during an inspection performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4), (e)(3), (f)(3), or (g)(3) of this section as follows:
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection, and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as
provided in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.
(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the tank and no alternative tank capacity is available at the site to accept the hazardous secondary material normally managed in the tank. In this case, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect the next time the process or unit that is generating the hazardous secondary material managed in the tank stops operation. Repair of the defect shall be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.
(l) Following the initial inspection and monitoring of the cover as required by the applicable provisions of this subpart, subsequent inspection and monitoring may be performed at intervals longer than 1 year under the following special conditions:
(1) In the case when inspecting or monitoring the cover would expose a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or other unsafe conditions, then the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material may designate a cover as an “unsafe to inspect and monitor cover” and comply with all of the following requirements:
(i) Prepare a written explanation for the cover stating the reasons why the cover is unsafe to visually inspect or to monitor, if required.
(ii) Develop and implement a written plan and schedule to inspect and monitor the cover, using the procedures specified in the applicable section of this subpart, as frequently as practicable during those times when a worker can safely access the cover.
(2) In the case when a tank is buried partially or entirely underground, a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material is required to inspect and monitor, as required by the applicable provisions of this section, only those portions of the tank cover and those connections to the tank (
e.g.,
fill ports, access hatches, gauge wells, etc.) that are located on or above the ground surface.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54103, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.1085
[Reserved]
§ 261.1086
Standards: containers.
(a)
Applicability.
The provisions of this section apply to the control of air pollutant emissions from containers for which § 261.1082(b) of this subpart references the use of this section for such air emission control.
(b)
General requirements.
(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from each container subject to this section in accordance with the following requirements, as applicable to the container.
(i) For a container having a design capacity greater than 0.1 m
3
and less than or equal to 0.46 m
3
, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from the container in accordance with the Container Level 1 standards specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) For a container having a design capacity greater than 0.46 m
3
that is not in light material service, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from the container in accordance with the Container Level 1 standards specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii) For a container having a design capacity greater than 0.46 m
3
that is in light material service, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall control air pollutant emissions from the container in accordance with the Container Level 2 standards specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Container Level 1 standards.
(1) A container using Container Level 1 controls is one of the following:
(i) A container that meets the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on packaging hazardous materials for transportation as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) A container equipped with a cover and closure devices that form a continuous barrier over the container openings such that when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position there are no visible holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container. The cover may be a separate cover installed on the container (
e.g.,
a lid on a drum or a suitably secured tarp on a roll-off box) or may be an integral part of the container structural design (
e.g.,
a “portable tank” or bulk cargo container equipped with a screw-type cap).
(iii) An open-top container in which an organic-vapor suppressing barrier is placed on or over the hazardous secondary material in the container such that no hazardous secondary material is exposed to the atmosphere. One example of such a barrier is application of a suitable organic-vapor suppressing foam.
(2) A container used to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section shall be equipped with covers and closure devices, as applicable to the container, that are composed of suitable materials to minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere and to maintain the equipment integrity, for as long as the container is in service. Factors to be considered in selecting the materials of construction and designing the cover and closure devices shall include: Organic vapor permeability; the effects of contact with the hazardous secondary material or its vapor managed in the container; the effects of outdoor exposure of the closure device or cover material to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices for which the container is intended to be used.
(3) Whenever a hazardous secondary material is in a container using Container Level 1 controls, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall install all covers and closure devices for the container, as applicable to the container, and secure and maintain each closure device in the closed position except as follows:
(i) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed for the purpose of adding hazardous secondary material or other material to the container as follows:
(A) In the case when the container is filled to the intended final level in one continuous operation, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure devices in the closed position and install the covers, as applicable to the container, upon conclusion of the filling operation.
(B) In the case when discrete quantities or batches of material intermittently are added to the container over a period of time, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure devices in the closed position and install covers, as applicable to the container, upon either the container being filled to the intended final level; the completion of a batch loading after which no additional material will be added to the container within 15 minutes; the person performing the loading operation leaving the immediate vicinity of the container; or the shutdown of the process generating the hazardous secondary material being added to the container, whichever condition occurs first.
(ii) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed for the purpose of removing hazardous secondary material from the container as follows:
(A) For the purpose of meeting the requirements of this section, an empty hazardous secondary material container may be open to the atmosphere at any time (
i.e.,
covers and closure devices on such a container are not required to be secured in the closed position).
(B) In the case when discrete quantities or batches of material are removed from the container, but the container is not an empty hazardous secondary material container, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure
the closure devices in the closed position and install covers, as applicable to the container, upon the completion of a batch removal after which no additional material will be removed from the container within 15 minutes or the person performing the unloading operation leaves the immediate vicinity of the container, whichever condition occurs first.
(iii) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed when access inside the container is needed to perform routine activities other than transfer of hazardous secondary material. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to measure the depth of or sample the material in the container, or when a worker needs to open a manhole hatch to access equipment inside the container. Following completion of the activity, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable to the container.
(iv) Opening of a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations for the purpose of maintaining the internal pressure of the container in accordance with the container design specifications. The device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions when the device is secured in the closed position. The settings at which the device opens shall be established such that the device remains in the closed position whenever the internal pressure of the container is within the internal pressure operating range determined by the remanufacturer or other persons that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material based on container manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials. Examples of normal operating conditions that may require these devices to open are during those times when the internal pressure of the container exceeds the internal pressure operating range for the container as a result of loading operations or diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations.
(v) Opening of a safety device, as defined in 40 CFR 261.1081, is allowed at any time conditions require doing so to avoid an unsafe condition.
(4) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using containers with Container Level 1 controls shall inspect the containers and their covers and closure devices as follows:
(i) In the case when a hazardous secondary material already is in the container at the time the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material first accepts possession of the container at the facility and the container is not emptied within 24 hours after the container is accepted at the facility (
i.e.,
is not an empty hazardous secondary material container) the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the container and its cover and closure devices to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. The container visual inspection shall be conducted on or before the date that the container is accepted at the facility (
i.e.,
the date the container becomes subject to the subpart CC container standards).
(ii) In the case when a container used for managing hazardous secondary material remains at the facility for a period of 1 year or more, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the container and its cover and closure devices initially and thereafter, at least once every 12 months, to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. If a defect is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
(iii) When a defect is detected for the container, cover, or closure devices, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 24 hours after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 5 calendar days after detection. If repair of a defect cannot be completed within 5 calendar days, then the hazardous secondary material shall be removed from the container and the container shall not be used to manage hazardous secondary material until the defect is repaired.
(5) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall maintain at the facility a copy of the procedure used to determine that containers with capacity of 0.46 m
3
or greater, which do not meet applicable DOT regulations as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, are not managing hazardous secondary material in light material service.
(d)
Container Level 2 standards.
(1) A container using Container Level 2 controls is one of the following:
(i) A container that meets the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on packaging hazardous materials for transportation as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) A container that operates with no detectable organic emissions as defined in § 261.1081 and determined in accordance with the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(iii) A container that has been demonstrated within the preceding 12 months to be vapor-tight by using 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 27 in accordance with the procedure specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Transfer of hazardous secondary material in or out of a container using Container Level 2 controls shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, considering the physical properties of the hazardous secondary material and good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or other hazardous materials. Examples of container loading procedures that the EPA considers to meet the requirements of this paragraph include using any one of the following: a submerged-fill pipe or other submerged-fill method to load liquids into the container; a vapor-balancing system or a vapor-recovery system to collect and control the vapors displaced from the container during filling operations; or a fitted opening in the top of a container through which the hazardous secondary material is filled and subsequently purging the transfer line before removing it from the container opening.
(3) Whenever a hazardous secondary material is in a container using Container Level 2 controls, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall install all covers and closure devices for the container, and secure and maintain each closure device in the closed position except as follows:
(i) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed for the purpose of adding hazardous secondary material or other material to the container as follows:
(A) In the case when the container is filled to the intended final level in one continuous operation, the remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure devices in the closed position and install the covers, as applicable to the container, upon conclusion of the filling operation.
(B) In the case when discrete quantities or batches of material intermittently are added to the container over a period of time, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure devices in the closed position and install covers, as applicable to the container, upon either the container being filled to the intended final level; the completion of a batch loading after which no additional material will be added to the container within 15 minutes; the person performing the loading operation leaving the immediate vicinity of the container; or the shutdown of the process generating the material being
added to the container, whichever condition occurs first.
(ii) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed for the purpose of removing hazardous secondary material from the container as follows:
(A) For the purpose of meeting the requirements of this section, an empty hazardous secondary material container may be open to the atmosphere at any time (
i.e.,
covers and closure devices are not required to be secured in the closed position on an empty container).
(B) In the case when discrete quantities or batches of material are removed from the container, but the container is not an empty hazardous secondary materials container, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure devices in the closed position and install covers, as applicable to the container, upon the completion of a batch removal after which no additional material will be removed from the container within 15 minutes or the person performing the unloading operation leaves the immediate vicinity of the container, whichever condition occurs first.
(iii) Opening of a closure device or cover is allowed when access inside the container is needed to perform routine activities other than transfer of hazardous secondary material. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to measure the depth of or sample the material in the container, or when a worker needs to open a manhole hatch to access equipment inside the container. Following completion of the activity, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable to the container.
(iv) Opening of a spring-loaded, pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations for the purpose of maintaining the internal pressure of the container in accordance with the container design specifications. The device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emission when the device is secured in the closed position. The settings at which the device opens shall be established such that the device remains in the closed position whenever the internal pressure of the container is within the internal pressure operating range determined by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material based on container manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials. Examples of normal operating conditions that may require these devices to open are during those times when the internal pressure of the container exceeds the internal pressure operating range for the container as a result of loading operations or diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations.
(v) Opening of a safety device, as defined in § 261.1081, is allowed at any time conditions require doing so to avoid an unsafe condition.
(4) The remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using containers with Container Level 2 controls shall inspect the containers and their covers and closure devices as follows:
(i) In the case when a hazardous secondary material already is in the container at the time the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material first accepts possession of the container at the facility and the container is not emptied within 24 hours after the container is accepted at the facility (
i.e.,
is not an empty hazardous secondary material container), the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the container and its cover and closure devices to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. The container visual inspection shall be conducted on or before the date that the container is accepted at the facility (
i.e.,
the date the container
becomes subject to the subpart CC container standards).
(ii) In the case when a container used for managing hazardous secondary material remains at the facility for a period of 1 year or more, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the container and its cover and closure devices initially and thereafter, at least once every 12 months, to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. If a defect is detected, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
(iii) When a defect is detected for the container, cover, or closure devices, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 24 hours after detection, and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 5 calendar days after detection. If repair of a defect cannot be completed within 5 calendar days, then the hazardous secondary material shall be removed from the container and the container shall not be used to manage hazardous secondary material until the defect is repaired.
(e)
Container Level 3 standards.
(1) A container using Container Level 3 controls is one of the following:
(i) A container that is vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii) A container that is vented inside an enclosure which is exhausted through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall meet the following requirements, as applicable to the type of air emission control equipment selected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material:
(i) The container enclosure shall be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of containers through the enclosure by conveyor or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or direct airflow into the enclosure. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.
(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(3) Safety devices, as defined in § 261.1081, may be installed and operated as necessary on any container, enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material using Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent systems and control devices as specified in § 261.1087 of this subpart.
(5) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material that use Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the records specified in § 261.1089(d) of this subpart.
(6) Transfer of hazardous secondary material in or out of a container using Container Level 3 controls shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, considering the
physical properties of the hazardous secondary material and good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or other hazardous materials. Examples of container loading procedures that the EPA considers to meet the requirements of this paragraph include using any one of the following: a submerged-fill pipe or other submerged-fill method to load liquids into the container; a vapor-balancing system or a vapor-recovery system to collect and control the vapors displaced from the container during filling operations; or a fitted opening in the top of a container through which the hazardous secondary material is filled and subsequently purging the transfer line before removing it from the container opening.
(f) For the purpose of compliance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(i) of this section, containers shall be used that meet the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on packaging hazardous materials for transportation as follows:
(1) The container meets the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 178 or part 179.
(2) Hazardous secondary material is managed in the container in accordance with the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 107, subpart B and 49 CFR parts 172, 173, and 180.
(3) For the purpose of complying with this subpart, no exceptions to the 49 CFR part 178 or part 179 regulations are allowed.
(g) To determine compliance with the no detectable organic emissions requirement of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the procedure specified in § 261.1083(d) of this subpart shall be used.
(1) Each potential leak interface (
i.e.,
a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the container, its cover, and associated closure devices, as applicable to the container, shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with containers include, but are not limited to: the interface of the cover rim and the container wall; the periphery of any opening on the container or container cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure-relief valve.
(2) The test shall be performed when the container is filled with a material having a volatile organic concentration representative of the range of volatile organic concentrations for the hazardous secondary materials expected to be managed in this type of container. During the test, the container cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.
(h) Procedure for determining a container to be vapor-tight using Method 27 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A for the purpose of complying with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(1) The test shall be performed in accordance with Method 27 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A of this chapter.
(2) A pressure measurement device shall be used that has a precision of ±2.5 mm water and that is capable of measuring above the pressure at which the container is to be tested for vapor tightness.
(3) If the test results determined by Method 27 indicate that the container sustains a pressure change less than or equal to 750 Pascals within 5 minutes after it is pressurized to a minimum of 4,500 Pascals, then the container is determined to be vapor-tight.
§ 261.1087
Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
(a) This section applies to each closed-vent system and control device installed and operated by the remanufacturer or other person who stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to control air emissions in accordance with standards of this subpart.
(b) The closed-vent system shall meet the following requirements:
(1) The closed-vent system shall route the gases, vapors, and fumes emitted from the hazardous secondary material in the hazardous secondary material management unit to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The closed-vent system shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1033(k) of this part.
(3) In the case when the closed-vent system includes bypass devices that
could be used to divert the gas or vapor stream to the atmosphere before entering the control device, each bypass device shall be equipped with either a flow indicator as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section or a seal or locking device as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, spring loaded pressure relief valves, and other fittings used for safety purposes are not considered to be bypass devices.
(i) If a flow indicator is used to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the indicator shall be installed at the inlet to the bypass line used to divert gases and vapors from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere at a point upstream of the control device inlet. For this paragraph, a flow indicator means a device which indicates the presence of either gas or vapor flow in the bypass line.
(ii) If a seal or locking device is used to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the device shall be placed on the mechanism by which the bypass device position is controlled (
e.g.,
valve handle, damper lever) when the bypass device is in the closed position such that the bypass device cannot be opened without breaking the seal or removing the lock. Examples of such devices include, but are not limited to, a car-seal or a lock-and-key configuration valve. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the bypass mechanism is maintained in the closed position.
(4) The closed-vent system shall be inspected and monitored by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in accordance with the procedure specified in § 261.1033(l).
(c) The control device shall meet the following requirements:
(1) The control device shall be one of the following devices:
(i) A control device designed and operated to reduce the total organic content of the inlet vapor stream vented to the control device by at least 95 percent by weight;
(ii) An enclosed combustion device designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(c) of this part; or
(iii) A flare designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(d) of this part.
(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who elects to use a closed-vent system and control device to comply with the requirements of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year.
(ii) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for control devices do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance.
(iii) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for control devices do not apply during a control device system malfunction.
(iv) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section (
i.e.,
planned routine maintenance of a control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year) by recording the information specified in § 261.1089(e)(1)(v) of this subpart.
(v) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall correct control device system malfunctions as soon as practicable after their occurrence in order to minimize excess emissions of air pollutants.
(vi) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall operate the closed-vent system such that gases, vapors, or fumes are not actively vented to the control device during periods of
planned maintenance or control device system malfunction (
i.e.,
periods when the control device is not operating or not operating normally) except in cases when it is necessary to vent the gases, vapors, and/or fumes to avoid an unsafe condition or to implement malfunction corrective actions or planned maintenance actions.
(3) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a carbon adsorption system to comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall operate and maintain the control device in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) Following the initial startup of the control device, all activated carbon in the control device shall be replaced with fresh carbon on a regular basis in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(g) or (h) of this part.
(ii) All carbon that is hazardous waste and that is removed from the control device shall be managed in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(n), regardless of the average volatile organic concentration of the carbon.
(4) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system to comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall operate and maintain the control device in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1033(j) of this part.
(5) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section as follows:
(i) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall demonstrate using either a performance test as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section the performance of each control device except for the following:
(A) A flare;
(B) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater;
(C) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel;
(ii) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall demonstrate the performance of each flare in accordance with the requirements specified in § 261.1033(e).
(iii) For a performance test conducted to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall use the test methods and procedures specified in § 261.1034(c)(1) through (4).
(iv) For a design analysis conducted to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the design analysis shall meet the requirements specified in § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii).
(v) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall demonstrate that a carbon adsorption system achieves the performance requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section based on the total quantity of organics vented to the atmosphere from all carbon adsorption system equipment that is used for organic adsorption, organic desorption or carbon regeneration, organic recovery, and carbon disposal.
(6) If the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and the Regional Administrator do not agree on a demonstration of control device performance using a design analysis then the disagreement shall be resolved using the results of a performance test performed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section. The Regional Administrator may choose to have an authorized representative observe the performance test.
(7) The closed-vent system and control device shall be inspected and monitored by the remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in accordance with the procedures specified in § 261.1033(f)(2) and (l). The readings from each monitoring device required by § 261.1033(f)(2) shall be inspected at least
once each operating day to check control device operation. Any necessary corrective measures shall be immediately implemented to ensure the control device is operated in compliance with the requirements of this section.
§ 261.1088
Inspection and monitoring requirements.
(a) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall inspect and monitor air emission control equipment used to comply with this subpart in accordance with the applicable requirements specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087 of this subpart.
(b) The remanufacture or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall develop and implement a written plan and schedule to perform the inspections and monitoring required by paragraph (a) of this section. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall keep the plan and schedule at the facility.
§ 261.1089
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to requirements of this subpart shall record and maintain the information specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section, as applicable to the facility. Except for air emission control equipment design documentation and information required by paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section, records required by this section shall be maintained at the facility for a minimum of 3 years. Air emission control equipment design documentation shall be maintained at the facility until the air emission control equipment is replaced or otherwise no longer in service. Information required by paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section shall be maintained at the facility for as long as the hazardous secondary material management unit is not using air emission controls specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087 in accordance with the conditions specified in § 261.1080(a).
(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a tank with air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for the tank that include the following information:
(1) For each tank using air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record:
(i) A tank identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material).
(ii) A record for each inspection required by § 261.1084 of this subpart that includes the following information:
(A) Date inspection was conducted.
(B) For each defect detected during the inspection: The location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.
(2) In addition to the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record the following information, as applicable to the tank:
(i) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a fixed roof to comply with the Tank Level 1 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(c) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for each determination for the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material in the tank performed in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084(c) of this subpart. The records shall include the date and time the samples were collected, the analysis method used, and the analysis results.
(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using an internal floating roof to comply with the Tank
Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(e) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain documentation describing the floating roof design.
(iii) Remanufacturer or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material using an external floating roof to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(f) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:
(A) Documentation describing the floating roof design and the dimensions of the tank.
(B) Records for each seal gap inspection required by § 261.1084(f)(3) of this subpart describing the results of the seal gap measurements. The records shall include the date that the measurements were performed, the raw data obtained for the measurements, and the calculations of the total gap surface area. In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 261.1084(f)(1) of this subpart, the records shall include a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the tank was emptied, if necessary.
(iv) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using an enclosure to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(i) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:
(A) Records for the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.
(B) Records required for the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using containers with Container Level 3 air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1086 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records that include the following information:
(1) Records for the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.
(2) Records required for the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records that include the following information:
(1) Documentation for the closed-vent system and control device that includes:
(i) Certification that is signed and dated by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material stating that the control device is designed to operate at the performance level documented by a design analysis as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section or by performance tests as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section when the tank or container is or would be operating at capacity or the highest level reasonably expected to occur.
(ii) If a design analysis is used, then design documentation as specified in § 261.1035(b)(4). The documentation shall include information prepared by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material or provided by the control device manufacturer or vendor that describes the control device design in accordance with § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii) and certification by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material that the control equipment meets the applicable specifications.
(iii) If performance tests are used, then a performance test plan as specified in § 261.1035(b)(3) and all test results.
(iv) Information as required by §§ 261.1035(c)(1) and 261.1035(c)(2), as applicable.
(v) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record, on a semiannual basis, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(v)(A) and (B) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable.
(A) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6-month period. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.
(B) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6-month period. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.
(vi) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section for those unexpected control device system malfunctions that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable.
(A) The occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the control device system.
(B) The duration of each period during a malfunction when gases, vapors, or fumes are vented from the hazardous secondary material management unit through the closed-vent system to the control device while the control device is not properly functioning.
(C) Actions taken during periods of malfunction to restore a malfunctioning control device to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(vii) Records of the management of carbon removed from a carbon adsorption system conducted in accordance with § 261.1087(c)(3)(ii) of this subpart.
(f) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a tank or container exempted under the hazardous secondary material organic concentration conditions specified in § 261.1082(c), shall prepare and maintain at the facility records documenting the information used for each material determination (
e.g.,
test results, measurements, calculations, and other documentation). If analysis results for material samples are used for the material determination, then the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record the date, time, and location that each material sample is collected in accordance with applicable requirements of § 261.1083.
(g) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material designating a cover as “unsafe to inspect and monitor” pursuant to § 261.1084(l) shall record and keep at facility the following information: The identification numbers for hazardous secondary material management units with covers that are designated as “unsafe to inspect and monitor,” the explanation for each cover stating why the cover is unsafe to inspect and monitor, and the plan and schedule for inspecting and monitoring each cover.
(h) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material that is subject to this subpart and to the control device standards in 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, may elect to demonstrate compliance with the applicable sections of this subpart by documentation either pursuant to this subpart, or pursuant to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, to the extent that the documentation required by 40
CFR parts 60 or 61 duplicates the documentation required by this section.
[80 FR 1777, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 54104, Aug. 9, 2023]
§ 261.1090
[Reserved]
Pt. 261, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 261—Representative Sampling Methods
The methods and equipment used for sampling waste materials will vary with the form and consistency of the waste materials to be sampled. Samples collected using the sampling protocols listed below, for sampling waste with properties similar to the indicated materials, will be considered by the Agency to be representative of the waste.
Extremely viscous liquid—ASTM Standard D140-70 Crushed or powdered material—ASTM Standard D346-75 Soil or rock-like material—ASTM Standard D420-69 Soil-like material—ASTM Standard D1452-65
Fly Ash-like material—ASTM Standard D2234-76 [ASTM Standards are available from ASTM, 1916 Race St., Philadelphia, PA 19103]
Containerized liquid waste—“COLIWASA.”
Liquid waste in pits, ponds, lagoons, and similar reservoirs—“Pond Sampler.”
This manual also contains additional information on application of these protocols.
[45 FR 33119, May 19, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 34562, June 14, 2005]
Appendixes II-III to Part 261 [Reserved]
Appendix IV to Part 261 [Reserved for Radioactive Waste Test Methods]
Appendix V to Part 261 [Reserved for Infectious Waste Treatment Specifications]
Appendix VI to Part 261 [Reserved for Etiologic Agents]
Pt. 261, App. VII

# Appendix VII to Part 261—Basis for Listing Hazardous Waste
EPA hazardous waste No.
Hazardous constituents for which listed
F001
Tetrachloroethylene, methylene chloride trichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride, chlorinated fluorocarbons.
F002
Tetrachloroethylene, methylene chloride, trichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, chlorobenzene, 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane, ortho-dichlorobenzene, trichlorofluoromethane.
F003
N.A.
F004
Cresols and cresylic acid, nitrobenzene.
F005
Toluene, methyl ethyl ketone, carbon disulfide, isobutanol, pyridine, 2-ethoxyethanol, benzene, 2-nitropropane.
F006
Cadmium, hexavalent chromium, nickel, cyanide (complexed).
F007
Cyanide (salts).
F008
Cyanide (salts).
F009
Cyanide (salts).
F010
Cyanide (salts).
F011
Cyanide (salts).
F012
Cyanide (complexed).
F019
Hexavalent chromium, cyanide (complexed).
F020
Tetra- and pentachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxins; tetra and pentachlorodi-benzofurans; tri- and ­tetrachlorophenols and their chlorophenoxy derivative acids, esters, ethers, amine and other salts.
F021
Penta- and hexachlorodibenzo-
p-
dioxins; penta- and hexachlorodibenzofurans; pentachlorophenol and its derivatives.
F022
Tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxins; tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzofurans.
F023
Tetra-, and pentachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxins; tetra- and pentachlorodibenzofurans; tri- and ­­tetra­chlorophenols and their chlorophenoxy derivative acids, esters, ethers, amine and other salts.
F024
Chloromethane, dichloromethane, trichloromethane, carbon tetrachloride, chloroethylene, 1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, trans-1-2-dichloroethylene, 1,1-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, 1,1,1,2-tetra-chloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, tetrachloroethylene, pentachloroethane, hexachloroethane, allyl chloride (3-chloropropene), dichloropropane, dichloropropene, 2-chloro-1,3-butadiene, hexachloro-1,3-butadiene, hexachlorocyclopentadiene, hexachlorocyclohexane, benzene, chlorbenzene, dichlorobenzenes, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, tetrachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, toluene, naphthalene.
F025
Chloromethane; Dichloromethane; Trichloromethane; Carbon tetrachloride; Chloroethylene; 1,1-Dichloroethane; 1,2-Dichloroethane; trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene; 1,1-Dichloroethylene; 1,1,1-Trichloroethane; 1,1,2-Trichloroethane; Trichloroethylene; 1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane; 1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane; Tetrachloroethylene; Pentachloroethane; Hexachloroethane; Allyl chloride (3-Chloropropene); Dichloropropane; Dichloropropene; 2-Chloro-1,3-butadiene; Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene; Hexachlorocyclopentadiene; Benzene; Chlorobenzene; Dichlorobenzene; 1,2,4-Tri­chlorobenzene; Tetrachlorobenzene; Pentachlorobenzene; Hexachlorobenzene; Toluene; Naphthalene.
F026
Tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzo-
p
-dioxins; tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzofurans.
F027
Tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzo-
p-
dioxins; tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzofurans; tri-, tetra-, and pentachlorophenols and their chlorophenoxy derivative acids, esters, ethers, amine and other salts.
F028
Tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzo-
p-
dioxins; tetra-, penta-, and hexachlorodibenzofurans; tri-, tetra-, and pentachlorophenols and their chlorophenoxy derivative acids, esters, ethers, amine and other salts.
F032
Benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, dibenz(a,h)-anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene, pentachlorophenol, arsenic, chromium, tetra-, penta-, hexa-, heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins, tetra-, penta-, hexa-, heptachlorodibenzofurans.
F034
Benz(a)anthracene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, benzo(a)pyrene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene, naphthalene, arsenic, chromium.
F035
Arsenic, chromium, lead.
F037
Benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, chrysene, lead, chromium.
F038
Benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, chrysene, lead, chromium.
F039
All constituents for which treatment standards are specified for multi-source leachate (wastewaters and nonwastewaters) under 40 CFR 268.43, Table CCW.
K001
Pentachlorophenol, phenol, 2-chlorophenol, p-chloro-m-cresol, 2,4-dimethylphenyl, 2,4-dinitrophenol, trichlorophenols, tetrachlorophenols, 2,4-dinitrophenol, creosote, chrysene, naphthalene, fluoranthene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(a)pyrene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene, benz(a)anthracene, dibenz(a)anthracene, acenaphthalene.
K002
Hexavalent chromium, lead
K003
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K004
Hexavalent chromium.
K005
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K006
Hexavalent chromium.
K007
Cyanide (complexed), hexavalent chromium.
K008
Hexavalent chromium.
K009
Chloroform, formaldehyde, methylene chloride, methyl chloride, paraldehyde, formic acid.
K010
Chloroform, formaldehyde, methylene chloride, methyl chloride, paraldehyde, formic acid, chloroacetaldehyde.
K011
Acrylonitrile, acetonitrile, hydrocyanic acid.
K013
Hydrocyanic acid, acrylonitrile, acetonitrile.
K014
Acetonitrile, acrylamide.
K015
Benzyl chloride, chlorobenzene, toluene, benzotrichloride.
K016
Hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, carbon tetrachloride, hexachloroethane, perchloroethylene.
K017
Epichlorohydrin, chloroethers [bis(chloromethyl) ether and bis (2-chloroethyl) ethers], trichloropropane, dichloropropanols.
K018
1,2-dichloroethane, trichloroethylene, hexachlorobutadiene, hexachlorobenzene.
K019
Ethylene dichloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, tetrachloroethanes (1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane and 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane), trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride.
K020
Ethylene dichloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, tetrachloroethanes (1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane and 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane), trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride.
K021
Antimony, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform.
K022
Phenol, tars (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons).
K023
Phthalic anhydride, maleic anhydride.
K024
Phthalic anhydride, 1,4-naphthoquinone.
K025
Meta-dinitrobenzene, 2,4-dinitrotoluene.
K026
Paraldehyde, pyridines, 2-picoline.
K027
Toluene diisocyanate, toluene-2, 4-diamine.
K028
1,1,1-trichloroethane, vinyl chloride.
K029
1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride, chloroform.
K030
Hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, hexachloroethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, ethylene dichloride.
K031
Arsenic.
K032
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene.
K033
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene.
K034
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene.
K035
Creosote, chrysene, naphthalene, fluoranthene benzo(b) fluoranthene, benzo(a)pyrene, indeno(1,2,3-cd) pyrene, benzo(a)anthracene, dibenzo(a)anthracene, acenaphthalene.
K036
Toluene, phosphorodithioic and phosphorothioic acid esters.
K037
Toluene, phosphorodithioic and phosphorothioic acid esters.
K038
Phorate, formaldehyde, phosphorodithioic and phosphorothioic acid esters.
K039
Phosphorodithioic and phosphorothioic acid esters.
K040
Phorate, formaldehyde, phosphorodithioic and phosphorothioic acid esters.
K041
Toxaphene.
K042
Hexachlorobenzene, ortho-dichlorobenzene.
K043
2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol.
K044
N.A.
K045
N.A.
K046
Lead.
K047
N.A.
K048
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K049
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K050
Hexavalent chromium.
K051
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K052
Lead.
K060
Cyanide, napthalene, phenolic compounds, arsenic.
K061
Hexavalent chromium, lead, cadmium.
K062
Hexavalent chromium, lead.
K069
Hexavalent chromium, lead, cadmium.
K071
Mercury.
K073
Chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, hexachloroethane, trichloroethane, tetrachloroethylene, dichloroethylene, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane.
K083
Aniline, diphenylamine, nitrobenzene, phenylenediamine.
K084
Arsenic.
K085
Benzene, dichlorobenzenes, trichlorobenzenes, tetrachlorobenzenes, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, benzyl chloride.
K086
Lead, hexavalent chromium.
K087
Phenol, naphthalene.
K088
Cyanide (complexes).
K093
Phthalic anhydride, maleic anhydride.
K094
Phthalic anhydride.
K095
1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane.
K096
1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane.
K097
Chlordane, heptachlor.
K098
Toxaphene.
K099
2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol.
K100
Hexavalent chromium, lead, cadmium.
K101
Arsenic.
K102
Arsenic.
K103
Aniline, nitrobenzene, phenylenediamine.
K104
Aniline, benzene, diphenylamine, nitrobenzene, phenylenediamine.
K105
Benzene, monochlorobenzene, dichlorobenzenes, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol.
K106
Mercury.
K107
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine (UDMH).
K108
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine (UDMH).
K109
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine (UDMH).
K110
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine (UDMH).
K111
2,4-Dinitrotoluene.
K112
2,4-Toluenediamine,
o
-toluidine,
p
-toluidine, aniline.
K113
2,4-Toluenediamine,
o
-toluidine,
p
-toluidine, aniline.
K114
2,4-Toluenediamine,
o
-toluidine,
p
-toluidine.
K115
2,4-Toluenediamine.
K116
Carbon tetrachloride, tetrachloroethylene, chloroform, phosgene.
K117
Ethylene dibromide.
K118
Ethylene dibromide.
K123
Ethylene thiourea.
K124
Ethylene thiourea.
K125
Ethylene thiourea.
K126
Ethylene thiourea.
K131
Dimethyl sulfate, methyl bromide.
K132
Methyl bromide.
K136
Ethylene dibromide.
K141
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene.
K142
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene.
K143
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene.
K144
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene.
K145
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, naphthalene.
K147
Benzene, benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene.
K148
Benz(a)anthracene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, indeno(1,2,3-cd)pyrene.
K149
Benzotrichloride, benzyl chloride, chloroform, chloromethane, chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, toluene.
K150
Carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, chloromethane, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, tetrachloroethylene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.
K151
Benzene, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, toluene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, tetrachloroethylene.
K156
Benomyl, carbaryl, carbendazim, carbofuran, carbosulfan, formaldehyde, methylene chloride, triethylamine.
K157
Carbon tetrachloride, formaldehyde, methyl chloride, methylene chloride, pyridine, triethylamine.
K158
Benomyl, carbendazim, carbofuran, carbosulfan, chloroform, methylene chloride.
K159
Benzene, butylate, eptc, molinate, pebulate, vernolate.
K161
Antimony, arsenic, metam-sodium, ziram.
K169
Benzene.
K170
Benzo(a)pyrene, dibenz(a,h)anthracene, benzo (a) anthracene, benzo (b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, 3-methylcholanthrene, 7, 12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene.
K171
Benzene, arsenic.
K172
Benzene, arsenic.
K174
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-Heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDD), 1,2,3,4,6,7,8-Heptachlorodibenzofuran (1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF), 1,2,3,4,7,8,9-Heptachlorodibenzofuran (1,2,3,6,7,8,9-HpCDF), HxCDDs (All Hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins), HxCDFs (All Hexachlorodibenzofurans), PeCDDs (All Pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins), OCDD (1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9-Octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, OCDF (1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9-Octachlorodibenzofuran), PeCDFs (All Pentachlorodibenzofurans), TCDDs (All tetrachlorodi-benzo-p-dioxins), TCDFs (All tetrachlorodibenzofurans).
K175
Mercury
K176
Arsenic, Lead.
K177
Antimony.
K178
Thallium.
K181
Aniline, o-anisidine, 4-chloroaniline, p-cresidine, 2,4-dimethylaniline, 1,2-phenylenediamine, 1,3-phenylenediamine.
N.A.—Waste is hazardous because it fails the test for the characteristic of ignitability, corrosivity, or reactivity.
[46 FR 4619, Jan. 16, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting appendix VII, part 261, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 261, App. VIII

# Appendix VIII to Part 261—Hazardous Constituents
Common name
Chemical abstracts name
Chemical abstracts No.
Hazardous waste No.
A2213
Ethanimidothioic acid, 2- (dimethylamino) -N-hydroxy-2-oxo-, methyl ester
30558-43-1
U394
Acetonitrile
Same
75-05-8
U003
Acetophenone
Ethanone, 1-phenyl-
98-86-2
U004
2-Acetylaminefluarone
Acetamide, N-9H-fluoren-2-yl-
53-96-3
U005
Acetyl chloride
Same
75-36-5
U006
1-Acetyl-2-thiourea
Acetamide, N-(aminothioxomethyl)-
591-08-2
P002
Acrolein
2-Propenal
107-02-8
P003
Acrylamide
2-Propenamide
79-06-1
U007
Acrylonitrile
2-Propenenitrile
107-13-1
U009
Aflatoxins
Same
1402-68-2
Aldicarb
Propanal, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-, O-[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxime
116-06-3
P070
Aldicarb sulfone
Propanal, 2-methyl-2- (methylsulfonyl) -, O-[(methylamino) carbonyl] oxime
1646-88-4
P203
Aldrin
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-10-hexachloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, (1alpha,4alpha,4abeta,5alpha,8alpha, 8abeta)-
309-00-2
P004
Allyl alcohol
2-Propen-1-ol
107-18-6
P005
Allyl chloride
1-Propane, 3-chloro
107-05-1
Aluminum phosphide
Same
20859-73-8
P006
4-Aminobiphenyl
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4-amine
92-67-1
5-(Aminomethyl)-3-isoxazolol
3(2H)-Isoxazolone, 5-(aminomethyl)-
2763-96-4
P007
4-Aminopyridine
4-Pyridinamine
504-24-5
P008
Amitrole
1H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-amine
61-82-5
U011
Ammonium vanadate
Vanadic acid, ammonium salt
7803-55-6
P119
Aniline
Benzenamine
62-53-3
U012
o-Anisidine (2-methoxyaniline)
Benzenamine, 2-Methoxy-
90-04-0
Antimony
Same
7440-36-0
Antimony compounds, N.O.S.
1
Aramite
Sulfurous acid, 2-chloroethyl 2-[4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenoxy]-1-methylethyl ester
140-57-8
Arsenic
Same
7440-38-2
Arsenic compounds, N.O.S.
1
Arsenic acid
Arsenic acid H
3
AsO
4
7778-39-4
P010
Arsenic pentoxide
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
5
1303-28-2
P011
Arsenic trioxide
Arsenic oxide As
2
O
3
1327-53-3
P012
Auramine
Benzenamine, 4,4′-carbonimidoylbis[N,N-dimethyl
492-80-8
U014
Azaserine
L-Serine, diazoacetate (ester)
115-02-6
U015
Barban
Carbamic acid, (3-chlorophenyl) -, 4-chloro-2-butynyl ester
101-27-9
U280
Barium
Same
7440-39-3
Barium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Barium cyanide
Same
542-62-1
P013
Bendiocarb
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-, methyl carbamate
22781-23-3
U278
Bendiocarb phenol
1,3-Benzodioxol-4-ol, 2,2-dimethyl-,
22961-82-6
U364
Benomyl
Carbamic acid, [1- [(butylamino) carbonyl]- 1H-benzimidazol-2-yl] -, methyl ester
17804-35-2
U271
Benz[c]acridine
Same
225-51-4
U016
Benz[a]anthracene
Same
56-55-3
U018
Benzal chloride
Benzene, (dichloromethyl)-
98-87-3
U017
Benzene
Same
71-43-2
U019
Benzenearsonic acid
Arsonic acid, phenyl-
98-05-5
Benzidine
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine
92-87-5
U021
Benzo[b]fluoranthene
Benz[e]acephenanthrylene
205-99-2
Benzo[j]fluoranthene
Same
205-82-3
Benzo(k)fluoranthene
Same
207-08-9
Benzo[a]pyrene
Same
50-32-8
U022
p-Benzoquinone
2,5-Cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione
106-51-4
U197
Benzotrichloride
Benzene, (trichloromethyl)-
98-07-7
U023
Benzyl chloride
Benzene, (chloromethyl)-
100-44-7
P028
Beryllium powder
Same
7440-41-7
P015
Beryllium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Bis(pentamethylene)-thiuram tetrasulfide
Piperidine, 1,1′-(tetrathiodicarbonothioyl)-bis-
120-54-7
Bromoacetone
2-Propanone, 1-bromo-
598-31-2
P017
Bromoform
Methane, tribromo-
75-25-2
U225
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether
Benzene, 1-bromo-4-phenoxy-
101-55-3
U030
Brucine
Strychnidin-10-one, 2,3-dimethoxy-
357-57-3
P018
Butyl benzyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl phenylmethyl ester
85-68-7
Butylate
Carbamothioic acid, bis(2-methylpropyl)-, S-ethyl ester
2008-41-5
Cacodylic acid
Arsinic acid, dimethyl-
75-60-5
U136
Cadmium
Same
7440-43-9
Cadmium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Calcium chromate
Chromic acid H
2
CrO
4
, calcium salt
13765-19-0
U032
Calcium cyanide
Calcium cyanide Ca(CN)
2
592-01-8
P021
Carbaryl
1-Naphthalenol, methylcarbamate
63-25-2
U279
Carbendazim
Carbamic acid, 1H-benzimidazol-2-yl, methyl ester
10605-21-7
U372
Carbofuran
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate
1563-66-2
P127
Carbofuran phenol
7-Benzofuranol, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-
1563-38-8
U367
Carbon disulfide
Same
75-15-0
P022
Carbon oxyfluoride
Carbonic difluoride
353-50-4
U033
Carbon tetrachloride
Methane, tetrachloro-
56-23-5
U211
Carbosulfan
Carbamic acid, [(dibutylamino) thio] methyl-, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl ester
55285-14-8
P189
Chloral
Acetaldehyde, trichloro-
75-87-6
U034
Chlorambucil
Benzenebutanoic acid, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
305-03-3
U035
Chlordane
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,2,4,5,6,7,8,8-octachloro-2,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-
57-74-9
U036
Chlordane (alpha and gamma isomers)
U036
Chlorinated benzenes, N.O.S.
1
Chlorinated ethane, N.O.S.
1
Chlorinated fluorocarbons, N.O.S.
1
Chlorinated naphthalene, N.O.S.
1
Chlorinated phenol, N.O.S.
1
Chlornaphazin
Naphthalenamine, N,N′-bis(2-chloroethyl)-
494-03-1
U026
Chloroacetaldehyde
Acetaldehyde, chloro-
107-20-0
P023
Chloroalkyl ethers, N.O.S.
1
p-Chloroaniline
Benzenamine, 4-chloro-
106-47-8
P024
Chlorobenzene
Benzene, chloro-
108-90-7
U037
Chlorobenzilate
Benzeneacetic acid, 4-chloro-alpha-(4-chlorophenyl)-alpha-hydroxy-, ethyl ester
510-15-6
U038
p-Chloro-m-cresol
Phenol, 4-chloro-3-methyl-
59-50-7
U039
2-Chloroethyl vinyl ether
Ethene, (2-chloroethoxy)-
110-75-8
U042
Chloroform
Methane, trichloro-
67-66-3
U044
Chloromethyl methyl ether
Methane, chloromethoxy-
107-30-2
U046
beta-Chloronaphthalene
Naphthalene, 2-chloro-
91-58-7
U047
o-Chlorophenol
Phenol, 2-chloro-
95-57-8
U048
1-(o-Chlorophenyl)thiourea
Thiourea, (2-chlorophenyl)-
5344-82-1
P026
Chloroprene
1,3-Butadiene, 2-chloro-
126-99-8
3-Chloropropionitrile
Propanenitrile, 3-chloro-
542-76-7
P027
Chromium
Same
7440-47-3
Chromium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Chrysene
Same
218-01-9
U050
Citrus red No. 2
2-Naphthalenol, 1-[(2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)azo]-
6358-53-8
Coal tar creosote
Same
8007-45-2
Copper cyanide
Copper cyanide CuCN
544-92-3
P029
Copper dimethyldithiocarbamate
Copper, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
137-29-1
Creosote
Same
U051
p-Cresidine
2-Methoxy-5-methylbenzenamine
120-71-8
Cresol (Cresylic acid)
Phenol, methyl-
1319-77-3
U052
Crotonaldehyde
2-Butenal
4170-30-3
U053
m-Cumenyl methylcarbamate
Phenol, 3-(methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate
64-00-6
P202
Cyanides (soluble salts and complexes) N.O.S.
1
P030
Cyanogen
Ethanedinitrile
460-19-5
P031
Cyanogen bromide
Cyanogen bromide (CN)Br
506-68-3
U246
Cyanogen chloride
Cyanogen chloride (CN)Cl
506-77-4
P033
Cycasin
beta-D-Glucopyranoside, (methyl-ONN-azoxy)methyl
14901-08-7
Cycloate
Carbamothioic acid, cyclohexylethyl-, S-ethyl ester
1134-23-2
2-Cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitrophenol
Phenol, 2-cyclohexyl-4,6-dinitro-
131-89-5
P034
Cyclophosphamide
2H-1,3,2-Oxazaphosphorin-2-amine, N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)tetrahydro-, 2-oxide
50-18-0
U058
2,4-D
Acetic acid, (2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-
94-75-7
U240
2,4-D, salts, esters
U240
Daunomycin
5,12-Naphthacenedione, 8-acetyl-10-[(3-amino-2,3,6-trideoxy-alpha-L-lyxo- hexopyranosyl)oxy]-7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,8,11-trihydroxy-1-methoxy-, (8S-cis)-
20830-81-3
U059
Dazomet
2H-1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione, tetrahydro-3,5-dimethyl
533-74-4
DDD
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2-dichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
72-54-8
U060
DDE
Benzene, 1,1′-(dichloroethenylidene)bis[4-chloro-
72-55-9
DDT
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4-chloro-
50-29-3
U061
Diallate
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3-dichloro-2-propenyl) ester
2303-16-4
U062
Dibenz[a,h]acridine
Same
226-36-8
Dibenz[a,j]acridine
Same
224-42-0
Dibenz[a,h]anthracene
Same
53-70-3
U063
7H-Dibenzo[c,g]carbazole
Same
194-59-2
Dibenzo[a,e]pyrene
Naphtho[1,2,3,4-def]chrysene
192-65-4
Dibenzo[a,h]pyrene
Dibenzo[b,def]chrysene
189-64-0
Dibenzo[a,i]pyrene
Benzo[rst]pentaphene
189-55-9
U064
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
Propane, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloro-
96-12-8
U066
Dibutyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dibutyl ester
84-74-2
U069
o-Dichlorobenzene
Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-
95-50-1
U070
m-Dichlorobenzene
Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-
541-73-1
U071
p-Dichlorobenzene
Benzene, 1,4-dichloro-
106-46-7
U072
Dichlorobenzene, N.O.S.
1
Benzene, dichloro-
25321-22-6
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidine
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dichloro-
91-94-1
U073
1,4-Dichloro-2-butene
2-Butene, 1,4-dichloro-
764-41-0
U074
Dichlorodifluoromethane
Methane, dichlorodifluoro-
75-71-8
U075
Dichloroethylene, N.O.S.
1
Dichloroethylene
25323-30-2
1,1-Dichloroethylene
Ethene, 1,1-dichloro-
75-35-4
U078
1,2-Dichloroethylene
Ethene, 1,2-dichloro-, (E)-
156-60-5
U079
Dichloroethyl ether
Ethane, 1,1′oxybis[2-chloro-
111-44-4
U025
Dichloroisopropyl ether
Propane, 2,2′-oxybis[2-chloro-
108-60-1
U027
Dichloromethoxy ethane
Ethane, 1,1′-[methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-chloro-
111-91-1
U024
Dichloromethyl ether
Methane, oxybis[chloro-
542-88-1
P016
2,4-Dichlorophenol
Phenol, 2,4-dichloro-
120-83-2
U081
2,6-Dichlorophenol
Phenol, 2,6-dichloro-
87-65-0
U082
Dichlorophenylarsine
Arsonous dichloride, phenyl-
696-28-6
P036
Dichloropropane, N.O.S.
1
Propane, dichloro-
26638-19-7
Dichloropropanol, N.O.S.
1
Propanol, dichloro-
26545-73-3
Dichloropropene, N.O.S.
1
1-Propene, dichloro-
26952-23-8
1,3-Dichloropropene
1-Propene, 1,3-dichloro-
542-75-6
U084
Dieldrin
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2aalpha,3beta,6beta, 6aalpha,7beta,7aalpha)-
60-57-1
P037
1,2:3,4-Diepoxybutane
2,2′-Bioxirane
1464-53-5
U085
Diethylarsine
Arsine, diethyl-
692-42-2
P038
Diethylene glycol, dicarbamate
Ethanol, 2,2′-oxybis-, dicarbamate
5952-26-1
U395
1,4-Diethyleneoxide
1,4-Dioxane
123-91-1
U108
Diethylhexyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester
117-81-7
U028
N,N′-Diethylhydrazine
Hydrazine, 1,2-diethyl-
1615-80-1
U086
O,O-Diethyl S-methyl dithiophosphate
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-methyl ester
3288-58-2
U087
Diethyl-p-nitrophenyl phosphate
Phosphoric acid, diethyl 4-nitrophenyl ester
311-45-5
P041
Diethyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester
84-66-2
U088
O,O-Diethyl O-pyrazinylphosphoro-thioate
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-pyrazinyl ester
297-97-2
P040
Diethylstilbesterol
Phenol, 4,4′-(1,2-diethyl-1,2-ethenediyl)bis-, (E)-
56-53-1
U089
Dihydrosafrole
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-propyl-
94-58-6
U090
Diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP)
Phosphorofluoridic acid, bis(1-methylethyl) ester
55-91-4
P043
Dimethoate
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-dimethyl S-[2-(methylamino)-2-oxoethyl] ester
60-51-5
P044
3,3′-Dimethoxybenzidine
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethoxy-
119-90-4
U091
p-Dimethylaminoazobenzene
Benzenamine, N,N-dimethyl-4-(phenylazo)-
60-11-7
U093
2,4-Dimethylaniline (2,4-xylidine)
Benzenamine, 2,4-dimethyl-
95-68-1
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene
Benz[a]anthracene, 7,12-dimethyl-
57-97-6
U094
3,3′-Dimethylbenzidine
[1,1′-Biphenyl]-4,4′-diamine, 3,3′-dimethyl-
119-93-7
U095
Dimethylcarbamoyl chloride
Carbamic chloride, dimethyl-
79-44-7
U097
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine
Hydrazine, 1,1-dimethyl-
57-14-7
U098
1,2-Dimethylhydrazine
Hydrazine, 1,2-dimethyl-
540-73-8
U099
alpha,alpha-Dimethylphenethylamine
Benzeneethanamine, alpha,alpha-dimethyl-
122-09-8
P046
2,4-Dimethylphenol
Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-
105-67-9
U101
Dimethyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester
131-11-3
U102
Dimethyl sulfate
Sulfuric acid, dimethyl ester
77-78-1
U103
Dimetilan
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 1- [(dimethylamino) carbonyl]-5-methyl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl ester
644-64-4
P191
Dinitrobenzene, N.O.S.
1
Benzene, dinitro-
25154-54-5
4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol
Phenol, 2-methyl-4,6-dinitro-
534-52-1
P047
4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol salts
P047
2,4-Dinitrophenol
Phenol, 2,4-dinitro-
51-28-5
P048
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
Benzene, 1-methyl-2,4-dinitro-
121-14-2
U105
2,6-Dinitrotoluene
Benzene, 2-methyl-1,3-dinitro-
606-20-2
U106
Dinoseb
Phenol, 2-(1-methylpropyl)-4,6-dinitro-
88-85-7
P020
Di-n-octyl phthalate
1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dioctyl ester
117-84-0
U017
Diphenylamine
Benzenamine, N-phenyl-
122-39-4
1,2-Diphenylhydrazine
Hydrazine, 1,2-diphenyl-
122-66-7
U109
Di-n-propylnitrosamine
1-Propanamine, N-nitroso-N-propyl-
621-64-7
U111
Disulfiram
Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide, tetraethyl
97-77-8
Disulfoton
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-[2-(ethylthio)ethyl] ester
298-04-4
P039
Dithiobiuret
Thioimidodicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
NH
541-53-7
P049
Endosulfan
6,9-Methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a- hexahydro-, 3-oxide
115-29-7
P050
Endothall
7-Oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid
145-73-3
P088
Endrin
2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octa-hydro-, (1aalpha,2beta,2abeta,3alpha,6alpha, 6abeta,7beta,7aalpha)-
72-20-8
P051
Endrin metabolites
P051
Epichlorohydrin
Oxirane, (chloromethyl)-
106-89-8
U041
Epinephrine
1,2-Benzenediol, 4-[1-hydroxy-2-(methylamino)ethyl]-, (R)-
51-43-4
P042
EPTC
Carbamothioic acid, dipropyl-, S-ethyl ester
759-94-4
Ethyl carbamate (urethane)
Carbamic acid, ethyl ester
51-79-6
U238
Ethyl cyanide
Propanenitrile
107-12-0
P101
Ethyl Ziram
Zinc, bis(diethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-
14324-55-1
Ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid
Carbamodithioic acid, 1,2-ethanediylbis-
111-54-6
U114
Ethylenebisdithiocarbamic acid, salts and esters
U114
Ethylene dibromide
Ethane, 1,2-dibromo-
106-93-4
U067
Ethylene dichloride
Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-
107-06-2
U077
Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether
Ethanol, 2-ethoxy-
110-80-5
U359
Ethyleneimine
Aziridine
151-56-4
P054
Ethylene oxide
Oxirane
75-21-8
U115
Ethylenethiourea
2-Imidazolidinethione
96-45-7
U116
Ethylidene dichloride
Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-
75-34-3
U076
Ethyl methacrylate
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, ethyl ester
97-63-2
U118
Ethyl methanesulfonate
Methanesulfonic acid, ethyl ester
62-50-0
U119
Famphur
Phosphorothioic acid, O-[4-[(dimethylamino)sulfonyl]phenyl] O,O-dimethyl ester
52-85-7
P097
Ferbam
Iron, tris(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
14484-64-1
Fluoranthene
Same
206-44-0
U120
Fluorine
Same
7782-41-4
P056
Fluoroacetamide
Acetamide, 2-fluoro-
640-19-7
P057
Fluoroacetic acid, sodium salt
Acetic acid, fluoro-, sodium salt
62-74-8
P058
Formaldehyde
Same
50-00-0
U122
Formetanate hydrochloride
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[3-[[(methylamino) carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-, monohydrochloride
23422-53-9
P198
Formic acid
Same
64-18-6
U123
Formparanate
Methanimidamide, N,N-dimethyl-N′-[2-methyl-4-[[(methylamino) carbonyl]oxy]phenyl]-
17702-57-7
P197
Glycidylaldehyde
Oxiranecarboxyaldehyde
765-34-4
U126
Halomethanes, N.O.S.
1
Heptachlor
4,7-Methano-1H-indene, 1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachloro-3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-
76-44-8
P059
Heptachlor epoxide
2,5-Methano-2H-indeno[1,2-b]oxirene, 2,3,4,5,6,7,7-heptachloro-1a,1b,5,5a,6,6a-hexa- hydro-, (1aalpha,1bbeta,2alpha,5alpha, 5abeta,6beta,6aalpha)-
1024-57-3
Heptachlor epoxide (alpha, beta, and gamma isomers)
Heptachlorodibenzofurans
Heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins
Hexachlorobenzene
Benzene, hexachloro-
118-74-1
U127
Hexachlorobutadiene
1,3-Butadiene, 1,1,2,3,4,4-hexachloro-
87-68-3
U128
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
1,3-Cyclopentadiene, 1,2,3,4,5,5-hexachloro-
77-47-4
U130
Hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins
Hexachlorodibenzofurans
Hexachloroethane
Ethane, hexachloro-
67-72-1
U131
Hexachlorophene
Phenol, 2,2′-methylenebis[3,4,6-trichloro-
70-30-4
U132
Hexachloropropene
1-Propene, 1,1,2,3,3,3-hexachloro-
1888-71-7
U243
Hexaethyl tetraphosphate
Tetraphosphoric acid, hexaethyl ester
757-58-4
P062
Hydrazine
Same
302-01-2
U133
Hydrogen cyanide
Hydrocyanic acid
74-90-8
P063
Hydrogen fluoride
Hydrofluoric acid
7664-39-3
U134
Hydrogen sulfide
Hydrogen sulfide H
2
S
7783-06-4
U135
Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene
Same
193-39-5
U137
3-Iodo-2-propynyl n-butylcarbamate
Carbamic acid, butyl-, 3-iodo-2-propynyl ester
55406-53-6
Isobutyl alcohol
1-Propanol, 2-methyl-
78-83-1
U140
Isodrin
1,4,5,8-Dimethanonaphthalene, 1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexa­hydro-, (1alpha,­4alpha,­4abeta,­5beta, ­8beta,­8abeta)-
465-73-6
P060
Isolan
Carbamic acid, dimethyl-, 3-methyl-1-(1-methylethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-yl ester
119-38-0
P192
Isosafrole
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(1-propenyl)-
120-58-1
U141
Kepone
1,3,4-Metheno-2H-cyclobuta[cd]pentalen-2-one, 1,1a,3,3a,4,5,5,5a,5b,6-decachlorooctahydro-
143-50-0
U142
Lasiocarpine
2-Butenoic acid, 2-methyl-,7-[[2,3-dihydroxy-2-(1-methoxyethyl)-3-methyl-1-
oxobutoxy]methyl]-2,3,5,7a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolizin-1-yl ester,
[1S-[1alpha(Z),7(2S*,3R*),7aalpha]]-
303-34-4
U143
Lead
Same
7439-92-1
Lead compounds, N.O.S.
1
Lead acetate
Acetic acid, lead(2 + ) salt
301-04-2
U144
Lead phosphate
Phosphoric acid, lead(2 + ) salt (2:3)
7446-27-7
U145
Lead subacetate
Lead, bis(acetato-O)tetrahydroxytri-
1335-32-6
U146
Lindane
Cyclohexane, 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachloro-, (1alpha,2alpha,3beta,4alpha, 5alpha,6beta)-
58-89-9
U129
Maleic anhydride
2,5-Furandione
108-31-6
U147
Maleic hydrazide
3,6-Pyridazinedione, 1,2-dihydro-
123-33-1
U148
Malononitrile
Propanedinitrile
109-77-3
U149
Manganese dimethyldithiocarbamate
Manganese, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-,
15339-36-3
P196
Melphalan
L-Phenylalanine, 4-[bis(2-chloroethyl)aminol]-
148-82-3
U150
Mercury
Same
7439-97-6
U151
Mercury compounds, N.O.S.
1
Mercury fulminate
Fulminic acid, mercury(2 + ) salt
628-86-4
P065
Metam Sodium
Carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, monosodium salt
137-42-8
Methacrylonitrile
2-Propenenitrile, 2-methyl-
126-98-7
U152
Methapyrilene
1,2-Ethanediamine, N,N-dimethyl-N′-2-pyridinyl-N′-(2-thienylmethyl)-
91-80-5
U155
Methiocarb
Phenol, (3,5-dimethyl-4-(methylthio)-, methylcarbamate
2032-65-7
P199
Methomyl
Ethanimidothioic acid, N-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]-, methyl ester
16752-77-5
P066
Methoxychlor
Benzene, 1,1′-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)bis[4-methoxy-
72-43-5
U247
Methyl bromide
Methane, bromo-
74-83-9
U029
Methyl chloride
Methane, chloro-
74-87-3
U045
Methyl chlorocarbonate
Carbonochloridic acid, methyl ester
79-22-1
U156
Methyl chloroform
Ethane, 1,1,1-trichloro-
71-55-6
U226
3-Methylcholanthrene
Benz[j]aceanthrylene, 1,2-dihydro-3-methyl-
56-49-5
U157
4,4′-Methylenebis(2-chloroaniline)
Benzenamine, 4,4′-methylenebis[2-chloro-
101-14-4
U158
Methylene bromide
Methane, dibromo-
74-95-3
U068
Methylene chloride
Methane, dichloro-
75-09-2
U080
Methyl ethyl ketone (MEK)
2-Butanone
78-93-3
U159
Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide
2-Butanone, peroxide
1338-23-4
U160
Methyl hydrazine
Hydrazine, methyl-
60-34-4
P068
Methyl iodide
Methane, iodo-
74-88-4
U138
Methyl isocyanate
Methane, isocyanato-
624-83-9
P064
2-Methyllactonitrile
Propanenitrile, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-
75-86-5
P069
Methyl methacrylate
2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
80-62-6
U162
Methyl methanesulfonate
Methanesulfonic acid, methyl ester
66-27-3
Methyl parathion
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-dimethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
298-00-0
P071
Methylthiouracil
4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-2-thioxo-
56-04-2
U164
Metolcarb
Carbamic acid, methyl-, 3-methylphenyl ester
1129-41-5
P190
Mexacarbate
Phenol, 4-(dimethylamino)-3,5-dimethyl-, methylcarbamate (ester)
315-18-4
P128
Mitomycin C
Azirino[2′,3′:3,4]pyrrolo[1,2-a]indole-4,7-dione,
6-amino-8-[[(aminocarbonyl)oxy]methyl]-1,1a,2,8,8a,8b-hexahydro-8a-methoxy-5- methyl-, [1aS-(1aalpha,8beta,8aalpha,8balpha)]-.
50-07-7
U010
MNNG
Guanidine, N-methyl-N′-nitro-N-nitroso-
70-25-7
U163
Molinate
1H-Azepine-1-carbothioic acid, hexahydro-, S-ethyl ester
2212-67-1
Mustard gas
Ethane, 1,1′-thiobis[2-chloro-
505-60-2
Naphthalene
Same
91-20-3
U165
1,4-Naphthoquinone
1,4-Naphthalenedione
130-15-4
U166
alpha-Naphthylamine
1-Naphthalenamine
134-32-7
U167
beta-Naphthylamine
2-Naphthalenamine
91-59-8
U168
alpha-Naphthylthiourea
Thiourea, 1-naphthalenyl-
86-88-4
P072
Nickel
Same
7440-02-0
Nickel compounds, N.O.S.
1
Nickel carbonyl
Nickel carbonyl Ni(CO)
4
, (T-4)-
13463-39-3
P073
Nickel cyanide
Nickel cyanide Ni(CN)
2
557-19-7
P074
Nicotine
Pyridine, 3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)-, (S)-
54-11-5
P075
Nicotine salts
P075
Nitric oxide
Nitrogen oxide NO
10102-43-9
P076
p-Nitroaniline
Benzenamine, 4-nitro-
100-01-6
P077
Nitrobenzene
Benzene, nitro-
98-95-3
U169
Nitrogen dioxide
Nitrogen oxide NO
2
10102-44-0
P078
Nitrogen mustard
Ethanamine, 2-chloro-N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methyl-
51-75-2
Nitrogen mustard, hydrochloride salt
Nitrogen mustard N-oxide
Ethanamine, 2-chloro-N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methyl-, N-oxide
126-85-2
Nitrogen mustard, N-oxide, hydro- chloride salt
Nitroglycerin
1,2,3-Propanetriol, trinitrate
55-63-0
P081
p-Nitrophenol
Phenol, 4-nitro-
100-02-7
U170
2-Nitropropane
Propane, 2-nitro-
79-46-9
U171
Nitrosamines, N.O.S.
1
35576-91-1
N-Nitrosodi-n-butylamine
1-Butanamine, N-butyl-N-nitroso-
924-16-3
U172
N-Nitrosodiethanolamine
Ethanol, 2,2′-(nitrosoimino)bis-
1116-54-7
U173
N-Nitrosodiethylamine
Ethanamine, N-ethyl-N-nitroso-
55-18-5
U174
N-Nitrosodimethylamine
Methanamine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
62-75-9
P082
N-Nitroso-N-ethylurea
Urea, N-ethyl-N-nitroso-
759-73-9
U176
N-Nitrosomethylethylamine
Ethanamine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
10595-95-6
N-Nitroso-N-methylurea
Urea, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
684-93-5
U177
N-Nitroso-N-methylurethane
Carbamic acid, methylnitroso-, ethyl ester
615-53-2
U178
N-Nitrosomethylvinylamine
Vinylamine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
4549-40-0
P084
N-Nitrosomorpholine
Morpholine, 4-nitroso-
59-89-2
N-Nitrosonornicotine
Pyridine, 3-(1-nitroso-2-pyrrolidinyl)-, (S)-
16543-55-8
N-Nitrosopiperidine
Piperidine, 1-nitroso-
100-75-4
U179
N-Nitrosopyrrolidine
Pyrrolidine, 1-nitroso-
930-55-2
U180
N-Nitrososarcosine
Glycine, N-methyl-N-nitroso-
13256-22-9
5-Nitro-o-toluidine
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-5-nitro-
99-55-8
U181
Octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (OCDD)
1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9-Octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
3268-87-9
Octachlorodibenzofuran (OCDF)
1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9-Octachlorodibenofuran
39001-02-0
Octamethylpyrophosphoramide
Diphosphoramide, octamethyl-
152-16-9
P085
Osmium tetroxide
Osmium oxide OsO
4
, (T-4)-
20816-12-0
P087
Oxamyl
Ethanimidothioc acid, 2-(dimethylamino)-N-[[(methylamino)carbonyl]oxy]-2-oxo-, methyl ester
23135-22-0
P194
Paraldehyde
1,3,5-Trioxane, 2,4,6-trimethyl-
123-63-7
U182
Parathion
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O-diethyl O-(4-nitrophenyl) ester
56-38-2
P089
Pebulate
Carbamothioic acid, butylethyl-, S-propyl ester
1114-71-2
Pentachlorobenzene
Benzene, pentachloro-
608-93-5
U183
Pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins
Pentachlorodibenzofurans
Pentachloroethane
Ethane, pentachloro-
76-01-7
U184
Pentachloronitrobenzene (PCNB)
Benzene, pentachloronitro-
82-68-8
U185
Pentachlorophenol
Phenol, pentachloro-
87-86-5
See F027
Phenacetin
Acetamide, N-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-
62-44-2
U187
Phenol
Same
108-95-2
U188
1,2-Phenylenediamine
1,2-Benzenediamine
95-54-5
1,3-Phenylenediamine
1,3-Benzenediamine
108-45-2
Phenylenediamine
Benzenediamine
25265-76-3
Phenylmercury acetate
Mercury, (acetato-O)phenyl-
62-38-4
P092
Phenylthiourea
Thiourea, phenyl-
103-85-5
P093
Phosgene
Carbonic dichloride
75-44-5
P095
Phosphine
Same
7803-51-2
P096
Phorate
Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl S-[(ethylthio)methyl] ester
298-02-2
P094
Phthalic acid esters, N.O.S.
1
Phthalic anhydride
1,3-Isobenzofurandione
85-44-9
U190
Physostigmine
Pyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-01, 1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethyl-, methylcarbamate (ester), (3aS-cis)-
57-47-6
P204
Physostigmine salicylate
Benzoic acid, 2-hydroxy-, compd. with (3aS-cis)-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethylpyrrolo [2,3-b]indol-5-yl methylcarbamate ester (1:1)
57-64-7
P188
2-Picoline
Pyridine, 2-methyl-
109-06-8
U191
Polychlorinated biphenyls, N.O.S.
1
Potassium cyanide
Potassium cyanide K(CN)
151-50-8
P098
Potassium dimethyldithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, dimethyl, potassium salt
128-03-0
Potassium n-hydroxymethyl-n-methyl-dithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, (hydroxymethyl)methyl-, monopotassium salt
51026-28-9
Potassium n-methyldithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, methyl-monopotassium salt
137-41-7
Potassium pentachlorophenate
Pentachlorophenol, potassium salt
7778736
None
Potassium silver cyanide
Argentate(1-), bis(cyano-C)-, potassium
506-61-6
P099
Promecarb
Phenol, 3-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-, methyl carbamate
2631-37-0
P201
Pronamide
Benzamide, 3,5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethyl-2-propynyl)-
23950-58-5
U192
1,3-Propane sultone
1,2-Oxathiolane, 2,2-dioxide
1120-71-4
U193
n-Propylamine
1-Propanamine
107-10-8
U194
Propargyl alcohol
2-Propyn-1-ol
107-19-7
P102
Propham
Carbamic acid, phenyl-, 1-methylethyl ester
122-42-9
U373
Propoxur
Phenol, 2-(1-methylethoxy)-, methylcarbamate
114-26-1
U411
Propylene dichloride
Propane, 1,2-dichloro-
78-87-5
U083
1,2-Propylenimine
Aziridine, 2-methyl-
75-55-8
P067
Propylthiouracil
4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 2,3-dihydro-6-propyl-2-thioxo-
51-52-5
Prosulfocarb
Carbamothioic acid, dipropyl-, S-(phenylmethyl) ester
52888-80-9
U387
Pyridine
Same
110-86-1
U196
Reserpine
Yohimban-16-carboxylic acid, 11,17-dimethoxy-18-[(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyl)oxy]-smethyl ester, (3beta,16beta,17alpha,18beta,20alpha)-
50-55-5
U200
Resorcinol
1,3-Benzenediol
108-46-3
U201
Safrole
1,3-Benzodioxole, 5-(2-propenyl)-
94-59-7
U203
Selenium
Same
7782-49-2
Selenium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Selenium dioxide
Selenious acid
7783-00-8
U204
Selenium sulfide
Selenium sulfide SeS
2
7488-56-4
U205
Selenium, tetrakis(dimethyl-dithiocarbamate)
Carbamodithioic acid, dimethyl-, tetraanhydrosulfide with orthothioselenious acid
144-34-3
Selenourea
Same
630-10-4
P103
Silver
Same
7440-22-4
Silver compounds, N.O.S.
1
Silver cyanide
Silver cyanide Ag(CN)
506-64-9
P104
Silvex (2,4,5-TP)
Propanoic acid, 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
93-72-1
See F027
Sodium cyanide
Sodium cyanide Na(CN)
143-33-9
P106
Sodium dibutyldithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, dibutyl, sodium salt
136-30-1
Sodium diethyldithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, diethyl-, sodium salt
148-18-5
Sodium dimethyldithiocarbamate
Carbamodithioic acid, dimethyl-, sodium salt
128-04-1
Sodium pentachlorophenate
Pentachlorophenol, sodium salt
131522
None
Streptozotocin
D-Glucose, 2-deoxy-2-[[(methylnitrosoamino)carbonyl]amino]-
18883-66-4
U206
Strychnine
Strychnidin-10-one
57-24-9
P108
Strychnine salts
P108
Sulfallate
Carbamodithioic acid, diethyl-, 2-chloro-2-propenyl ester
95-06-7
TCDD
Dibenzo[b,e][1,4]dioxin, 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-
1746-01-6
Tetrabutylthiuram disulfide
Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide, tetrabutyl
1634-02-2
1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene
Benzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro-
95-94-3
U207
Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins
Tetrachlorodibenzofurans
Tetrachloroethane, N.O.S.
1
Ethane, tetrachloro-, N.O.S.
25322-20-7
1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane
Ethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloro-
630-20-6
U208
1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloro-
79-34-5
U209
Tetrachloroethylene
Ethene, tetrachloro-
127-18-4
U210
2,3,4,6-Tetrachlorophenol
Phenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachloro-
58-90-2
See F027
2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, potassium salt
same
53535276
None
2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, sodium salt
same
25567559
None
Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate
Thiodiphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
3689-24-5
P109
Tetraethyl lead
Plumbane, tetraethyl-
78-00-2
P110
Tetraethyl pyrophosphate
Diphosphoric acid, tetraethyl ester
107-49-3
P111
Tetramethylthiuram monosulfide
Bis(dimethylthiocarbamoyl) sulfide
97-74-5
Tetranitromethane
Methane, tetranitro-
509-14-8
P112
Thallium
Same
7440-28-0
Thallium compounds, N.O.S.
1
Thallic oxide
Thallium oxide Tl
2
O
3
1314-32-5
P113
Thallium(I) acetate
Acetic acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
563-68-8
U214
Thallium(I) carbonate
Carbonic acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
6533-73-9
U215
Thallium(I) chloride
Thallium chloride TlCl
7791-12-0
U216
Thallium(I) nitrate
Nitric acid, thallium(1 + ) salt
10102-45-1
U217
Thallium selenite
Selenious acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
12039-52-0
P114
Thallium(I) sulfate
Sulfuric acid, dithallium(1 + ) salt
7446-18-6
P115
Thioacetamide
Ethanethioamide
62-55-5
U218
Thiodicarb
Ethanimidothioic acid, N,N′-[thiobis [(methylimino) carbonyloxy]] bis-, dimethyl ester
59669-26-0
U410
Thiofanox
2-Butanone, 3,3-dimethyl-1-(methylthio)-, 0-[(methylamino)carbonyl] oxime
39196-18-4
P045
Thiomethanol
Methanethiol
74-93-1
U153
Thiophanate-methyl
Carbamic acid, [1,2-phyenylenebis (iminocarbonothioyl)] bis-, dimethyl ester
23564-05-8
U409
Thiophenol
Benzenethiol
108-98-5
P014
Thiosemicarbazide
Hydrazinecarbothioamide
79-19-6
P116
Thiourea
Same
62-56-6
U219
Thiram
Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide [(H
2
N)C(S)]
2
S
2
, tetramethyl-
137-26-8
U244
Tirpate
1,3-Dithiolane-2-carboxaldehyde, 2,4-dimethyl-, O-[(methylamino) carbonyl] oxime
26419-73-8
P185
Toluene
Benzene, methyl-
108-88-3
U220
Toluenediamine
Benzenediamine, ar-methyl-
25376-45-8
U221
Toluene-2,4-diamine
1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-methyl-
95-80-7
Toluene-2,6-diamine
1,3-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-
823-40-5
Toluene-3,4-diamine
1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-methyl-
496-72-0
Toluene diisocyanate
Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanatomethyl-
26471-62-5
U223
o-Toluidine
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-
95-53-4
U328
o-Toluidine hydrochloride
Benzenamine, 2-methyl-, hydrochloride
636-21-5
U222
p-Toluidine
Benzenamine, 4-methyl-
106-49-0
U353
Toxaphene
Same
8001-35-2
P123
Triallate
Carbamothioic acid, bis(1-methylethyl)-, S-(2,3,3-trichloro-2-propenyl) ester
2303-17-5
U389
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
Benzene, 1,2,4-trichloro-
120-82-1
1,1,2-Trichloroethane
Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro-
79-00-5
U227
Trichloroethylene
Ethene, trichloro-
79-01-6
U228
Trichloromethanethiol
Methanethiol, trichloro-
75-70-7
P118
Trichloromonofluoromethane
Methane, trichlorofluoro-
75-69-4
U121
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
Phenol, 2,4,5-trichloro-
95-95-4
See F027
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
Phenol, 2,4,6-trichloro-
88-06-2
See F027
2,4,5-T
Acetic acid, (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-
93-76-5
See F027
Trichloropropane, N.O.S.
1
25735-29-9
1,2,3-Trichloropropane
Propane, 1,2,3-trichloro-
96-18-4
Triethylamine
Ethanamine, N,N-diethyl-
121-44-8
U404
O,O,O-Triethyl phosphorothioate
Phosphorothioic acid, O,O,O-triethyl ester
126-68-1
1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene
Benzene, 1,3,5-trinitro-
99-35-4
U234
Tris(1-aziridinyl)phosphine sulfide
Aziridine, 1,1′,1″-phosphinothioylidynetris-
52-24-4
Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate
1-Propanol, 2,3-dibromo-, phosphate (3:1)
126-72-7
U235
Trypan blue
2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3′-[(3,3′-dimethyl[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diyl)bis(azo)]-
bis[5-amino-4-hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt.
72-57-1
U236
Uracil mustard
2,4-(1H,3H)-Pyrimidinedione, 5-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-
66-75-1
U237
Vanadium pentoxide
Vanadium oxide V
2
O
5
1314-62-1
P120
Vernolate
Carbamothioic acid, dipropyl-,S-propyl ester
1929-77-7
Vinyl chloride
Ethene, chloro-
75-01-4
U043
Warfarin
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenylbutyl)-, when present at concentrations less than 0.3%
81-81-2
U248
Warfarin
2H-1-Benzopyran-2-one, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-oxo-1-phenylbutyl)-, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
81-81-2
P001
Warfarin salts, when present at concentrations less than 0.3%
U248
Warfarin salts, when present at concentrations greater than 0.3%
P001
Zinc cyanide
Zinc cyanide Zn(CN)
2
557-21-1
P121
Zinc phosphide
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations greater than 10%
1314-84-7
P122
Zinc phosphide
Zinc phosphide Zn
3
P
2
, when present at concentrations of 10% or less
1314-84-7
U249
Ziram
ZInc, bis(dimethylcarbamodithioato-S,S′)-, (T-4)-
137-30-4
P205
1
The abbreviation N.O.S. (not otherwise specified) signifies those members of the general class not specifically listed by name in this appendix.
[53 FR 13388, Apr. 22, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 43881, Oct. 31, 1988; 54 FR 50978, Dec. 11, 1989; 55 FR 50483, Dec. 6, 1990; 56 FR 7568, Feb. 25, 1991; 59 FR 468, Jan. 4, 1994; 59 FR 31551, June 20, 1994; 60 FR 7853, Feb. 9, 1995; 60 FR 19165, Apr. 17, 1995; 62 FR 32977, June 17, 1997; 63 FR 24625, May 4, 1998; 65 FR 14475, Mar. 17, 2000; 65 FR 67127, Nov. 8, 2000; 70 FR 9177, Feb. 24, 2005; 71 FR 40271, July 14, 2006; 75 FR 78926, Dec. 17, 2010]
Pt. 261, App. IX

# Appendix IX to Part 261—Wastes Excluded Under §§ 260.20 and 260.22
Table 1—Wastes Excluded From Non-Specific Sources
Facility
Address
Waste description
Aluminum Company of America
750 Norcold Ave., Sidney, Ohio 45365
Wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) sludges generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) and WWTP sludges generated from electroplating operations (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) and stored in an on-site landfill. This is an exclusion for approximately 16,772 cubic yards of landfilled WWTP filter cake. This exclusion applies only if the waste filter cake remains in place or, if excavated, is disposed of in a Subtitle D landfill which is permitted, licensed, or registered by a state to manage industrial solid waste. This exclusion was published on April 6, 1999.
1. The constituent concentrations measured in the TCLP extract may not exceed the following levels (mg/L): Arsenic—5; Barium—100; Chromium—5; Cobalt—210; Copper—130; Nickel—70; Vanadium—30; Zinc—1000; Fluoride—400; Acetone—400; Methylene Chloride—0.5; Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate—0.6.
2. (a) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste, Alcoa possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified in Condition (1) is at a level in the leachate higher than the delisting level established in Condition (1), or is at a level in the ground water or soil higher than the health based level, then Alcoa must report such data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(b) Based on the information described in paragraph (a) and any other information received from any source, the Regional Administrator will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires Agency action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending or revoking this exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(c) If the Regional Administrator determines that the reported information does require Agency action, the Regional Administrator will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Regional Administrator believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed Agency action is not necessary or to suggest an alternative action. The facility shall have 10 days from the date of the Regional Administrator's notice to present such information.
(d) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (c) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (c) the initial receipt of information described in paragraph (a), the Regional Administrator will issue a final written determination describing the Agency actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment. Any required action described in the Regional Administrator's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Regional Administrator provides otherwise.
Alumnitec, Inc. (formerly Profile Extrusion Co., formerly United Technologies Automotive, Inc.)
Jeffersonville, IN
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) generated from the chemical conversion of aluminum after April 29, 1986.
American Metals Corporation
Westlake, Ohio
Wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) sludges from the chemical conversion coating (phosphating) of aluminum (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) and other solid wastes previously disposed in an on-site landfill. This is a one-time exclusion for 12,400 cubic yards of landfilled WWTP sludge. This exclusion is effective on January 15, 2002.
1.
Delisting Levels:
(A) The constituent concentrations measured in the TCLP extract may not exceed the following levels (mg/L): antimony—1.52; arsenic—0.691; barium—100; beryllium—3.07; cadmium—1; chromium—5; cobalt—166; copper—67,300; lead—5; mercury—0.2; nickel—209; selenium—1; silver—5; thallium—0.65; tin—1,660; vanadium—156; and zinc—2,070.
(B) The total constituent concentrations in any sample may not exceed the following levels (mg/kg): arsenic—9,280; mercury—94; and polychlorinated biphenyls—0.265.
(C) Concentrations of dioxin and furan congeners cannot exceed values which would result in a cancer risk greater than or equal to 10
−6
as predicted by the model.
2.
Verification Sampling
—USG shall collect six additional vertically composited samples of sludge from locations that compliment historical data and shall analyze the samples by TCLP for metals including antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury, nickel, selenium, silver, thallium, tin, vanadium, and zinc. If the samples exceed the levels in Condition (1)(a), USG must notify EPA. The corresponding sludge and all sludge yet to be disposed remains hazardous until USG has demonstrated by additional sampling that all constituents of concern are below the levels set forth in condition 1.
3.
Reopener Language
—(a) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste, USG possesses or is otherwise made aware of any data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified in Condition (1) is at a level higher than the delisting level established in Condition (1), or is at a level in the groundwater exceeding maximum allowable point of exposure concentration referenced by the model, then USG must report such data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(b) Based on the information described in paragraph (a) and any other information received from any source, the Regional Administrator will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires Agency action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(c) If the Regional Administrator determines that the reported information does require Agency action, the Regional Administrator will notify USG in writing of the actions the Regional Administrator believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing USG with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed Agency action is not necessary or to suggest an alternative action. USG shall have 10 days from the date of the Regional Administrator's notice to present the information.
(d) If after 10 days USG presents no further information, the Regional Administrator will issue a final written determination describing the Agency actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment. Any required action described in the Regional Administrator's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Regional Administrator provides otherwise.
4.
Notifications
—USG must provide a one-time written notification to any State Regulatory Agency to which or through which the waste described above will be transported for disposal at least 60 days prior to the commencement of such activities. Failure to provide such a notification will result in a violation of the delisting petition and a possible revocation of the decision.
Ampex Recording Media Corporation
Opelika, Alabama
Solvent recovery residues in the powder or pellet form (EPA Hazardous Waste Nos. F003 and F005) generated from the recovery of spent solvents from the manufacture of tape recording media (generated at a maximum annual rate of 1,000 cubic yards in the powder or pellet form) after August 9, 1993. In order to confirm that the characteristics of the wastes do not change significantly, the facility must, on an annual basis, analyze a representative composite sample of the waste (in its final form) for the constituents listed in 40 CFR 261.24 using the method specified therein. The annual analytical results, including quality control information, must be compiled, certified according to 40 CFR 260.22(i)(12), maintained on-site for a minimum of five years, and made available for inspection upon request by any employee or representative of EPA or the State of Alabama. Failure to maintain the required records on-site will be considered by EPA, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent directed by EPA.
Aptus, Inc.
Coffeyville, Kansas
Kiln residue and spray dryer/baghouse residue (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F027) generated during the treatment of cancelled pesticides containing 2,4,5-T and Silvex and related materials by Aptus' incinerator at Coffeyville, Kansas after December 27, 1991, so long as:
(1) The incinerator is monitored continuously and is in compliance with operating permit conditions. Should the incinerator fail to comply with the permit conditions relevant to the mechanical operation of the incinerator, Aptus must test the residues generated during the run when the failure occurred according to the requirements of Conditions (2) through (4), regardless of whether or not the demonstration in Condition (5) has been made.
(2) A minimum of four grab samples must be taken from each hopper (or other container) of kiln residue generated during each 24-hour run; all grabs collected during a given 24-hour run must then be composited to form one composite sample. A minimum of four grab samples must also be taken from each hopper (or other container) of spray dryer/baghouse residue generated during each 24-hour run; all grabs collected during a given 24-hour run must then be composited to form one composite sample. Prior to the disposal of the residues from each 24-hour run, a TCLP leachate test must be performed on these composite samples and the leachate analyzed for the TC toxic metals, nickel, and cyanide. If arsenic, chromium, lead or silver TC leachate test results exceed 1.6 ppm, barium levels exceed 32 ppm, cadmium or selenium levels exceed 0.3 ppm, mercury levels exceed 0.07 ppm, nickel levels exceed 10 ppm, or cyanide levels exceed 6.5 ppm, the wastes must be retreated to achieve these levels or must be disposed in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA. Analyses must be performed according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B.
(3) Aptus must generate, prior to the disposal of the residues, verification data from each 24 hour run for each treatment residue (i.e., kiln residue, spray dryer/baghouse residue) to demonstrate that the maximum allowable treatment residue concentrations listed below are not exceeded. Samples must be collected as specified in Condition (2). Analyses must be performed according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. Any residues which exceed any of the levels listed below must be retreated or must be disposed of as hazardous. Kiln residue and spray dryer/baghouse residue must not exceed the following levels:
Aldrin—0.015 ppm, Benzene—9.7 ppm, Benzo(a)pyrene—0.43 ppm, Benzo(b)fluoranthene)—1.8 ppm, Chlordane—0.37 ppm, Chloroform—5.4 ppm, Chrysene—170 ppm, Dibenz(a,h)anthracene—0.083 ppm, 1.2-Dichloroethane—4.1 ppm, Dichloromethane—2.4 ppm, 2,4-Dichlorophenol—480 ppm, Dichlorvos—260 ppm, Disulfaton—23 ppm, Endosulfan I—310 ppm, Fluorene—120 ppm, Indeno(1,2,3,cd)-pyrene—330 ppm, Methyl parathion—210 ppm, Nitrosodiphenylamine—130 ppm, Phenanthrene—150 ppm, Polychlorinated biphenyls—0.31 ppm, Tetrachlorethylene—59 ppm, 2,4,5-TP (silvex)—110 ppm, 2,4,6-Trichlorophenol—3.9 ppm.
(4) Aptus must generate, prior to disposal of residues, verification data from each 24-hour run for each treatment residue (i.e., kiln residue, spray dryer/baghouse residue) to demonstrate that the residues do not contain tetra-, penta-, or hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins or furans at levels of regulatory concern. Samples must be collected as specified in Condition (2). The TCDD equivalent levels for the solid residues must be less than 5 ppt. Any residues with detected dioxins or furans in excess of this level must be retreated or must be disposed of as acutely hazardous. For tetra- and penta-chlorinated dioxin and furan homologs, the maximum practical quantitation limit must not exceed 15 ppt for the solid residues. For hexachlorinated dioxin and furan homologs, the maximum practical quantitation limit must not exceed 37 ppt for the solid residues.
(5) The test data from Conditions (1), (2), (3), and (4) must be kept on file by Aptus for inspection purposes and must be compiled, summarized, and submitted to the Director for the Materials Recovery and Waste Management Division, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, by certified mail on a monthly basis and when the treatment of the cancelled pesticides and related materials is concluded. The testing requirements for Conditions (2), (3), and (4) will continue until Aptus provides the Director with the results of four consecutive batch analyses for the petitioned wastes, none of which exceed the maximum allowable levels listed in these conditions and the Director notifies Aptus that the conditions have been lifted. All data submitted will be placed in the RCRA public docket.
Arco Building Products
Sugarcreek, Ohio
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after August 15, 1986.
Arco Chemical Co.
Miami, FL
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste No. FO19) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after April 29, 1986.
Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology
Vertac Superfund site, Jacksonville, Arkansas
Kiln ash, cyclone ash, and calcium chloride salts from incineration of residues (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F020 and F023) generated from the primary production of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D after August 24, 1990. This one-time exclusion applies only to the incineration of the waste materials described in the petition, and it is conditional upon the data obtained from ADPC
E's full-scale incineration facility. To ensure that hazardous constituents are not present in the waste at levels of regulatory concern once the full-scale treatment facility is in operation, ADPC
E must implement a testing program for the petitioned waste. This testing program must meet the following conditions for the exclusion to be valid:
(1)
Testing:
Sample collection and analyses (including quality control (QC) procedures) must be performed according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B.
(A)
Initial testing:
Representative grab samples must be taken from each drum and kiln ash and cyclone ash generated from each 24 hours of operation, and the grab samples composited to form one composite sample of ash for each 24-hour period. Representative grab samples must also be taken from each drum of calcium chloride salts generated from each 24 hours of operation and composited to form one composite sample of calcium chloride salts for each 24-hour period. The initial testing requirements must be fullfilled for the following wastes: (i) Incineration by-products generated prior to and during the incinerator's trial burn; (ii) incineration by-products from the treatment of 2,4-D wastes for one week (or 7 days if incineration is not on consecutive days) after completion of the trial burn; (iii) incineration by-products from the treatment of blended 2,4-D and 2,4, 5-T wastes for two weeks (or 14 days if incineration is not on consecutive days) after completion of the trial burn; and (iv) incineration by-products from the treatment of blended 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T wastes for one week (or 7 days if incineration is not on consecutive days) when the percentage of 2, 4, 5-T wastes exceeds the maximum percentage treated under Condition (1)(A)(iii). Prior to disposal of the residues from each 24-hour sampling period, the daily composite must be analyzed for all the constituents listed in Condition (3). ADPC
E must report the analytical test data, including quality control information, obtained during this initial period no later than 90 days after the start of the operation.
(B)
Subsequent testing:
Representative grab samples of each drum of kiln and cyclone ash generated from each week of operation must be composited to form one composite sample of ash for each weekly period. Representative grab samples of each drum of calcium chloride salts generated from each week of operation must also be composited to form one composite sample of calcium chloride salts for each weekly period.
Prior to disposal of the residues from each weekly sampling period, the weekly composites must be analyzed for all of the constituents listed in Condition (3). The analytical data, including quality control information, must be compiled and maintained on site for a minimum of three years. These data must be furnished upon request and made available for inspection by any employee or representative of EPA.
(2)
Waste holding:
The incineration residues that are generated must be stored as hazardous until the initial verification analyses or subsequent analyses are completed.
If the composite incineration residue samples (from either Condition (1)(A) or Condition (1)(B)) do not exceed any of the delisting levels set in Condition (3), the incineration residues corresponding to these samples may be managed and disposed of in accordance with all applicable solid waste regulations.
If any composite incineration residue sample exceeds any of the delisting levels set in Condition (3), the incineration residues generated during the time period corresponding to this sample must be retreated until they meet these levels (analyses must be repeated) or managed and disposed of in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA. Incineration residues which are generated but for which analysis is not complete or valid must be managed and disposed of in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA, until valid analyses demonstrate that the wastes meet the delisting levels.
(3)
Delisting levels:
If concentrations in one or more of the incineration residues for any of the hazardous constituents listed below exceed their respective maximum allowable concentrations also listed below, the batch of failing waste must either be re-treated until it meets these levels or managed and disposed of in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA.
(A) Inorganics (Leachable): Arsenic, 0.32 ppm; Barium, 6.3 ppm; Cadmium, 0.06 ppm; Chromium, 0.32 ppm; Cyanide, 4.4 ppm; Lead, 0.32 ppm; Mercury, 0.01 ppm; Nickel, 4.4 ppm; Selenium, 0.06 ppm; Silver, 0.32 ppm. Metal concentrations must be measured in the waste leachate as per 40 CFR 261.24. Cyanide extractions must be conducted using distilled water.
(B) Organics: Benzene, 0.87 ppm; Benzo(a)anthracene, 0.10 ppm; Benzo(a)pyrene, 0.04 ppm; Benzo (b)fluoranthene, 0.16 ppm; Chlorobenzene, 152 ppm; o-Chlorophenol, 44 ppm; Chrysene, 15 ppm; 2, 4-D, 107 ppm; DDE, 1.0 ppm; Dibenz(a,h)anthracene, 0.007 ppm; 1, 4-Dichlorobenzene, 265 ppm; 1, 1-Dichloroethylene, 1.3 ppm; trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene, 37 ppm; Dichloromethane, 0.23 ppm; 2,4-Dichlorophenol, 43 ppm; Hexachlorobenzene, 0.26 ppm; Indeno (1,2,3-cd) pyrene, 30 ppm; Polychlorinated biphenyls, 12 ppm; 2,4,5-T, 1 × 10
6
ppm; 1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene, 56 ppm; Tetrachloroethylene, 3.4 ppm; Trichloroethylene, 1.1 ppm; 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol, 21,000 ppm; 2,4,6-Trichlorophenol, 0.35 ppm.
(C)
Chlorinated dioxins and furans:
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin equivalents, 4 × 10
−7
ppm. The petitioned by-product must be analyzed for the tetra-, penta-, hexa-, and heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxins, and the tetra-, penta-, hexa-, and heptachlorodibenzofurans to determine the 2, 3, 7, 8-tetra-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin equivalent concentration. The analysis must be conducted using a measurement system that achieves practical quantitation limits of 15 parts per trillion (ppt) for the tetra- and penta-homologs, and 37 ppt for the hexa- and hepta-homologs.
(4)
Termination of testing:
Due to the possible variability of the incinerator feeds, the testing requirements of Condition (1)(B) will continue indefinitely.
(5)
Data submittals:
Within one week of system start-up, ADPC
E must notify the Section Chief, Variances Section (see address below) when the full-scale incineration system is on-line and waste treatment has begun. The data obtained through Condition (1)(A) must be submitted to PSPD/OSW (5303W), U.S. EPA, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, within the time period specified. At the Section Chief's request, ADPC
E must submit analytical data obtained through Condition (1)(B) within the time period specified by the Section Chief. Failure to submit the required data obtained from Condition (1)(A) within the specified time period or to maintain the required records for the time specified in Condition (1)(B) (or to submit data within the time specified by the Section Chief) will be considered by the Agency, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke ADPC
E's exclusion to the extent directed by EPA. All data must be accompanied by the following certification statement:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete. As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete. In the event that any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of wastes will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
AutoAlliance International Inc.
Flat Rock, Michigan
Wastewater treatment sludges, F019, that are generated by AutoAlliance International, Inc. (AAI) at Flat Rock, Michigan at a maximum annual rate of 2,000 cubic yards per year. The sludges must be disposed of in a lined landfill with leachate collection which is licensed, permitted, or otherwise authorized to accept the delisted wastewater treatment sludges in accordance with 40 CFR part 258. The exclusion becomes effective as of April 6, 2007.
(1) Delisting Levels: (A) The concentrations in a leachate extract of the waste measured in any sample must not exceed the following levels (mg/L): arsenic—0.3; cadmium—0.5; chromium—4.95; lead—5; nickel—90.5; selenium—1; tin—721; zinc—898; p-cresol—11.4; and formaldehyde—84.2.
(B) The total concentration measured in any sample must not exceed the following levels (mg/kg): mercury—8.92; and formaldehyde—689.
(2) Quarterly Verification Testing: To verify that the waste does not exceed the specified delisting levels, AAI must collect and analyze one representative sample of the waste on a quarterly basis. Sample collection and analyses, including quality control procedures, must be performed using appropriate methods. SW-846 Method 1311 must be used for generation of the leachate extract used in the testing of the delisting levels if oil and grease comprise less than 1% of the waste. SW-846 Method 1330A must be used for generation of the leaching extract if oil and grease comprise 1% or more of the waste. SW-846 Method 9071B must be used for determination of oil and grease. SW-846 Methods 1311, 1330A, and 9071B are incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11.
(3) Changes in Operating Conditions: AAI must notify the EPA in writing if the manufacturing process, the chemicals used in the manufacturing process, the treatment process, or the chemicals used in the treatment process change significantly. AAI must handle wastes generated after the process change as hazardous until it has demonstrated that the wastes continue to meet the delisting levels and that no new hazardous constituents listed in appendix VIII of part 261 have been introduced and it has received written approval from EPA.
(4) Data Submittals: AAI must submit the data obtained through verification testing or as required by other conditions of this rule to both U.S. EPA Region 5, 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604 and MDEQ, Waste and Hazardous Materials Division, Hazardous Waste Section, at P.O. Box 30241, Lansing, Michigan 48909. The quarterly verification data and certification of proper disposal must be submitted annually upon the anniversary of the effective date of this exclusion. AAI must compile, summarize and maintain on site for a minimum of five years records of operating conditions and analytical data. AAI must make these records available for inspection. A signed copy of the certification statement in 40 CFR 260.22(i)(12) must accompany all data.
(5) Reopener Language: (A) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste AAI possesses or is otherwise made aware of any data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent is at a level in the leachate higher than the specified delisting level, or is in the groundwater at a concentration higher than the maximum allowable groundwater concentration in paragraph (e), then AAI must report such data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(B) Based on the information described in paragraph (a) and any other information received from any source, the Regional Administrator will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires Agency action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(C) If the Regional Administrator determines that the reported information does require Agency action, the Regional Administrator will inform AAI in writing of the actions the Regional Administrator believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing AAI with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed Agency action is not necessary or to suggest an alternative action. AAI shall have 30 days from the date of the Regional Administrator's notice to present the information.
(D) If after 30 days AAI presents no further information, the Regional Administrator will issue a final written determination describing the Agency actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment. Any required action described in the Regional Administrator's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Regional Administrator provides otherwise.
(E) Maximum Allowable Groundwater Concentrations (µg/L): arsenic—5; cadmium—5; chromium—100; lead—15; nickel—750; selenium—50; tin—22,500; zinc—11,300; p-cresol—188; and formaldehyde—1,380.
Babcock
Wilcox Nuclear Operations Group, Inc., current owner, and BWX Technologies, Inc., predecessor in interest to the current owner, identified collectively hereafter as “B
W NOG”
Lynchburg, Virginia
Wastewater treatment sludge from electroplating operations (Hazardous Waste Number F006) generated at the Mt. Athos facility near Lynchburg, VA and currently deposited in two on-site surface impoundments designated as Final Effluent Ponds (FEPs) 1 and 2. This is a one-time exclusion for 148 cubic yards of sludge and is effective after March 24, 2011.
(1)
Reopener language.
(A) If B
W NOG discovers that any condition or assumption related to the characterization of the excluded waste which was used in the evaluation of the petition or that was predicted through modeling is not as reported in the petition, then B
W NOG must report any information relevant to that condition or assumption, in writing, to the Regional Administrator and the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality within 10 calendar days of discovering that information
(B) Upon receiving information described in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of its source, the Regional Administrator will determine whether the reported condition requires further action. Further action may include repealing the exclusion, modifying the exclusion, or other appropriate action deemed necessary to protect human health or the environment
(2)
Notification Requirements
In the event that the delisted waste is transported off-site for disposal, B
W NOG must provide a one-time written notification to any State Regulatory Agency to which or through which the delisted waste described above will be transported at least 60 calendar days prior to the commencement of such activities. Failure to provide such notification will be deemed to be a violation of this exclusion and may result in revocation of the decision and other enforcement action.
BAE Systems, Inc,
Sealy, TX
Filter Cake (EPA Hazardous Waste Number F019) generated at a maximum rate of 1,200 cubic yards per calendar year after April 15, 2009.
For the exclusion to be valid, BAE must implement a verification testing program that meets the following Paragraphs:
(1) Delisting Levels: All concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the maximum allowable concentrations in mg/l specified in this paragraph.
Filter Cake Leachable Concentrations (mg/l): Acetone—3211; Arsenic—0.052; Barium—100; Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate—103; Cadmium—0.561; Chloroform—0.4924; Chromium—5.0; Copper—149; Cyanide—19; Furans—3.57; Hexavalent Chromium—5.0; Lead—3.57; Lindane—0.4; Methyl Ethyl Ketone—200; Nickel—82.2; Selenium—1.0; 2,4,5-TP (Silvex)—1.0; 2,4-D—6.65; Tin—9001; Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin—249; Tetrachloroethylene—0.125685; Zinc—1240.
(2) Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Waste classification as non-hazardous can not begin until compliance with the limits set in paragraph (1) for filter cake has occurred for two consecutive quarterly sampling events.
(B) If constituent levels in any sample taken by BAE exceed any of the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) for the filter cake, BAE must do the following:
(i) notify EPA in accordance with paragraph (6) and
(ii) manage and dispose the filter cake as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA.
(3) Testing Requirements:
Upon this exclusion becoming final, BAE may perform quarterly analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the filter cake as follows:
(A) Quarterly Testing:
(i) Collect two representative composite samples of the filter cake at quarterly intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite samples may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval. Sampling must be performed in accordance with the sampling plan approved by EPA in support of the exclusion.
(ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any composite sample taken that exceeds the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) for the filter cake must be disposed as hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable hazardous waste requirements.
(iii) Within thirty (30) days after taking its first quarterly sample, BAE will report its first quarterly analytical test data to EPA. If levels of constituents measured in the samples of the filter cake do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion for two consecutive quarters, BAE can manage and dispose the non-hazardous filter cake according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(B) Annual Testing:
(i) If BAE completes the quarterly testing specified in paragraph (3) above and no sample contains a constituent at a level which exceeds the limits set forth in paragraph (1), BAE may begin annual testing as follows: BAE must test two representative composite samples of the filter cake for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per calendar year.
(ii) The samples for the annual testing shall be a representative composite sample according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C,1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. Methods must meet Performance Based Measurement System Criteria in which the Data Quality Objectives are to demonstrate that samples of the BAE filter cake are representative for all constituents listed in paragraph (1).
(iii) The samples for the annual testing taken for the second and subsequent annual testing events shall be taken within the same calendar month as the first annual sample taken.
(iv) The annual testing report should include the total amount of waste in cubic yards disposed during the calendar year.
(4) Changes in Operating Conditions: If BAE significantly changes the process described in its petition or starts any processes that generate(s) the waste that may or could affect the composition or type of waste generated (by illustration, but not limitation, changes in equipment or operating conditions of the treatment process), it must notify EPA in writing and it may no longer handle the wastes generated from the new process as non-hazardous until the wastes meet the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) and it has received written approval to do so from EPA.
BAE must submit a modification to the petition complete with full sampling and analysis for circumstances where the waste volume changes and/or additional waste codes are added to the waste stream.
(5) Data Submittals:
BAE must submit the information described below. If BAE fails to submit the required data within the specified time or maintain the required records on-site for the specified time, EPA, at its discretion, will consider this sufficient basis to reopen the exclusion as described in paragraph (6). BAE must:
(A) Submit the data obtained through paragraph (3) to the Chief, Corrective Action and Waste Minimization Section, Multimedia Planning and Permitting Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 6, 1445 Ross Ave., Dallas, Texas 75202, within the time specified. All supporting data can be submitted on CD-ROM or some comparable electronic media.
(B) Compile records of analytical data from paragraph (3), summarized, and maintained on-site for a minimum of five years.
(C) Furnish these records and data when either EPA or the State of Texas requests them for inspection.
(D) Send along with all data a signed copy of the following certification statement, to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete.
As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete.
If any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
(6) Reopener
(A) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste BAE possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or ground water monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified for the delisting verification testing is at level higher than the delisting level allowed by the Division Director in granting the petition, then the facility must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(B) If either the quarterly or annual testing of the waste does not meet the delisting requirements in paragraph (1), BAE must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(C) If BAE fails to submit the information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B) or if any other information is received from any source, the Division Director will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires EPA action to protect human health and/or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(D) If the Division Director determines that the reported information requires action by EPA, the Division Director will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Division Director believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed EPA action is not necessary. The facility shall have 10 days from the date of the Division Director's notice to present such information.
(E) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (6)(D) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (6)(D)) the initial receipt of information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B), the Division Director will issue a final written determination describing EPA actions that are necessary to protect human health and/or the environment. Any required action described in the Division Director's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Division Director provides otherwise.
(7) Notification Requirements
BAE Systems must do the following before transporting the delisted waste. Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting petition and a possible revocation of the decision.
(A) Provide a one-time written notification to any state Regulatory Agency to which or through which it will transport the delisted waste described above for disposal, 60 days before beginning such activities.
(B) Update the one-time written notification if it ships the delisted waste into a different disposal facility.
(C) Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting variance and possible revocation of the decision.
BBC Brown Boveri, Inc.
Sanford, FL
Dewatered Wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated from electroplating operations after October 17, 1986.
Bekaert Corp
Dyersburg, TN
Dewatered wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste Nos. F006) generated at a maximum rate of 1250 cubic yards per calendar year after May 27, 2004, and disposed in a Subtitle D landfill.
For the exclusion to be valid, Bekaert must implement a verification testing program that meets the following paragraphs:
(1) Delisting Levels: All leachable concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the maximum allowable concentrations in mg/l specified in this paragraph. Bekaert must use the leaching method specified at § 261.24 to measure constituents in the waste leachate.
(A) Inorganic Constituents TCLP (mg/l): Cadmium—0.672; Chromium—5.0; Nickel—127; Zinc—1260.0.
(B) Organic Constituents TCLP (mg/l): Methyl ethyl ketone—200.0.
(2) Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Bekaert must accumulate the hazardous waste dewatered WWTP sludge in accordance with the applicable regulations of §§ 262.15, 262.16, and 262.17 of this subchapter, as applicable, and continue to dispose of the dewatered WWTP sludge as hazardous waste.
(B) Once the first quarterly sampling and analyses event described in paragraph (3) is completed and valid analyses demonstrate that no constituent is present in the sample at a level which exceeds the delisting levels set in paragraph (1), Bekaert can manage and dispose of the dewatered WWTP sludge as nonhazardous according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(C) If constituent levels in any sample taken by Bekaert exceed any of the delisting levels set in paragraph (1), Bekaert must do the following: (i) notify EPA in accordance with paragraph (7) and (ii) manage and dispose the dewatered WWTP sludge as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA.
(D) Quarterly Verification Testing Requirements: Upon this exclusion becoming final, Bekaert may begin the quarterly testing requirements of paragraph (3) on its dewatered WWTP sludge.
(3) Quarterly Testing Requirements: Upon this exclusion becoming final, Bekaert may perform quarterly analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the dewatered WWTP sludge as follows:
(A)(i) Collect four representative composite samples of the hazardous waste dewatered WWTP sludge at quarterly (ninety (90) day) intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite sample may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval.
(ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any roll-offs from which the composite sample is taken exceeding the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) must be disposed as hazardous waste in a Subtitle C landfill.
(iii) Within forty-five (45) days after taking its first quarterly sample, Bekaert will report its first quarterly analytical test data to EPA. If levels of constituents measured in the sample of the dewatered WWTP sludge do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion, Bekaert can manage and dispose the nonhazardous dewatered WWTP sludge according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(4) Annual Testing:
(A) If Bekaert completes the quarterly testing specified in paragraph (3) above and no sample contains a constituent with a level which exceeds the limits set forth in paragraph (1), Bekaert may begin annual testing as follows: Bekaert must test one representative composite sample of the dewatered WWTP sludge for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per calendar year.
(B) The sample for the annual testing shall be a representative composite sample for all constituents listed in paragraph (1).
(C) The sample for the annual testing taken for the second and subsequent annual testing events shall be taken within the same calendar month as the first annual sample taken.
(5) Changes in Operating Conditions: If Bekaert significantly changes the process described in its petition or starts any processes that generate(s) the waste that may or could affect the composition or type of waste generated as established under paragraph (1) (by illustration, but not limitation, changes in equipment or operating conditions of the treatment process), it must notify the EPA in writing; it may no longer handle the wastes generated from the new process as nonhazardous until the wastes meet the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) and it has received written approval to do so from the EPA.
(6) Data Submittals: Bekaert must submit the information described below. If Bekaert fails to submit the required data within the specified time or maintain the required records on-site for the specified time, the EPA, at its discretion, will consider this sufficient basis to reopen the exclusion as described in paragraph (7). Bekaert must:
(A) Submit the data obtained through paragraph (3) to the Chief, North Section, RCRA Enforcement and Compliance Branch, Waste Division, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street, SW., Atlanta, Georgia, 30303, within the time specified.
(B) Compile records of analytical data from paragraph (3), summarized, and maintained on-site for a minimum of five years.
(C) Furnish these records and data when either the EPA or the State of Tennessee request them for inspection.
(D) Send along with all data a signed copy of the following certification statement, to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete.
As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete. If any of this information is determined by the EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by the EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
(7) Reopener:
(A) If, any time after disposal of the delisted waste Bekaert possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or ground water monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified for the delisting verification testing is at level higher than the delisting level allowed by the Regional Administrator or his delegate in granting the petition, then the facility must report the data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator or his delegate within ten (10) days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(B) If either the quarterly or annual testing of the waste does not meet the delisting requirements in paragraph (1), Bekaert must report the data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator or his delegate within ten (10) days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(C) If Bekaert fails to submit the information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B) or if any other information is received from any source, the Regional Administrator or his delegate will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires the EPA action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(D) If the Regional Administrator or his delegate determines that the reported information requires action the EPA, the Regional Administrator or his delegate will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Regional Administrator or his delegate believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notification shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed the EPA action is not necessary. The facility shall have ten (10) days from the date of the Regional Administrator or his delegate's notice to present such information.
(E) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (6)(D) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (6)(D)) the initial receipt of information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B), the Regional Administrator or his delegate will issue a final written determination describing the EPA actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment. Any required action described in the Regional Administrator or his delegate's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Regional Administrator or his delegate provides otherwise.
(8) Notification Requirements: Bekaert must do following before transporting the delisted waste:
(A) Provide a one-time written notification to any State Regulatory Agency to which or through which it will transport the delisted waste described above for disposal, sixty (60) days before beginning such activities.
(B) Update the one-time written notification if Bekaert ships the delisted waste into a different disposal facility.
(C) Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting variance and a possible revocation of the decision.
Bethlehem Steel Corporation
Sparrows Point, Maryland
Stabilized filter cake (at a maximum annual rate of 1100 cubic yards) from the treatment of wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated from electroplating operations after [insert date of publication in
Federal Register
]. Bethlehem Steel (BSC) must implement a testing program that meets the following conditions for the exclusion to be valid:
(1)
Testing:
Sample collection and analyses (including quality control (QC) procedures) must be performed using appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. If EPA judges the stabilization process to be effective under the conditions used during the initial verification testing, BSC may replace the testing required in Condition (1)(A) with the testing required in Condition (1)(B). BSC must continue to test as specified in Condition (1)(A) until and unless notified by EPA in writing that testing in Condition (1)(A) may be replaced by Condition (1)(B) (to the extent directed by EPA).
(A)
Initial Verification Testing:
During at least the first eight weeks of operation of the full-scale treatment system, BSC must collect and analyze weekly composites representative of the stabilized waste. Weekly composites must be composed of representative grab samples collected from every batch during each week of stabilization. The composite samples must be collected and analyzed, prior to the disposal of the stabilized filter cake, for all constituents listed in Condition (3). BSC must report the analytical test data, including a record of the ratios of lime kiln dust and fly ash used and quality control information, obtained during this initial period no later than 60 days after the collection of the last composite of stabilized filter cake.
(B)
Subsequent Verification Testing:
Following written notification by EPA, BSC may substitute the testing condition in (1)(B) for (1)(A). BSC must collect and analyze at least one composite representative of the stabilized filter cake generated each month. Monthly composites must be comprised of representative samples collected from all batches that are stabilized in a one-month period. The monthly samples must be analyzed prior to the disposal of the stabilized filter cake for chromium, lead and nickel. BSC may, at its discretion, analyze composite samples more frequently to demonstrate that smaller batches of waste are non-hazardous.
(C)
Annual Verification Testing:
In order to confirm that the characteristics of the treated waste do not change significantly, BSC must, on an annual basis, analyze a representative composite sample of stabilized filter cake for all TC constituents listed in 40 CFR § 261.24 using the method specified therein. This composite sample must represent the stabilized filter cake generated over one week.
(2)
Waste Holding and Handling:
BSC must store, as hazardous, all stabilized filter cake generated until verification testing (as specified in Conditions (1)(A) and (1)(B)) is completed and valid analyses demonstrate that the delisting levels set forth in Condition (3) are met. If the levels of hazardous constituents measured in the samples of stabilized filter cake generated are below all the levels set forth in Condition (3), then the stabilized filter cake is non-hazardous and may be managed and disposed of in accordance with all applicable solid waste regulations. If hazardous constituent levels in any weekly or monthly composite sample equal or exceed any of the delisting levels set in Condition (3), the stabilized filter cake generated during the time period corresponding to this sample must be retreated until it is below these levels or managed and disposed of in accordance with Subtitle C of RCRA.
(3)
Delisting Levels:
All concentrations must be measured in the waste leachate by the method specified in 40 CFR § 261.24. The leachable concentrations for the constituents must be below the following levels (ppm): arsenic—4.8; barium—100; cadmium—0.48; chromium—5.0; lead—1.4; mercury—0.19; nickel—9.6; selenium—1.0; silver—5.0.
(4)
Changes in Operating Conditions:
After completing the initial verification test period in Condition (1)(A), if BSC decides to significantly change the stabilization process (e.g., stabilization reagents) developed under Condition (1), then BSC must notify EPA in writing prior to instituting the change. After written approval by EPA, BSC may manage waste generated from the changed process as non-hazardous under this exclusion, provided the other conditions of this exclusion are fulfilled.
(5)
Data Submittals:
Two weeks prior to system start-up, BSC must notify in writing (see address below) when stabilization of the dewatered filter cake will begin. The data obtained through Condition (1)(A) must be submitted to Waste and Chemicals Management Division (Mail Code 3HW11), U.S. EPA Region III, 1650 Arch St., Philadelphia, PA 19103 within the time period specified. The analytical data, including quality control information and records of ratios of lime kiln dust and fly ash used, must be compiled and maintained on site for a minimum of five years. These data must be furnished upon request and made available for inspection by EPA or the State of Maryland. Failure to submit the required data within the specified time period or maintain the required records on site for the specified time will be considered by the Agency, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent directed by EPA. All data must be accompanied by a signed copy of the following certification statement to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C § 1001 and 42 U.S.C § 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete.
As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete.
In the event that any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
Blanchard Refining Company LLC
Texas City, TX
Residual solids (EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers F037) generated at a maximum rate of as 20,000 cubic yards annually.
For the exclusion to be valid, Blanchard must implement a verification testing program that meets the following Paragraphs:
(1) All leachable concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the following levels measured as mg/L (ppm). The petitioner must use an acceptable leaching method, for example SW-846, Method 1311, to measure constituents in the residual solids leachate:
(A) Inorganic Constituents of Concern: Antimony—0.5985; Arsenic—0.424; Barium—36; Beryllium—1.74; Chromium—3.06; Cobalt—0.902; Lead—0.984; Nickel—13.5; Selenium—1.0; Vanadium—4.64, Zinc—197. Mercury—0.068.
(B) Organic Constituents of Concern: Acetone—520.0; Anthracene—25.993; Benzene—0.077; Benzo(a)pyrene—2.634, Chrysene—7.006; Methylene Chloride—0.0790; Phenanthrene—10.626; Phenol—173; Pyrene—4.446.
(2) Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Blanchard must manage and dispose its residual solids as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA, until they have completed verification testing described in Paragraph (3)(A) and (B), as appropriate, and valid analyses show that paragraph (1) is satisfied.
(B) Levels of constituents measured in the samples of the residual solids that do not exceed the levels set forth in Paragraph (1) are nonhazardous. Blanchard can manage and dispose the nonhazardous residual solids according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(C) If constituent levels in a sample exceed any of the delisting levels set in Paragraph (1), Blanchard must retreat or stabilize the residual solids represented by the sample exceeding the delisting levels, until it meets the levels in paragraph (1). Blanchard must repeat the analyses of the retreated residual solids.
(3) Verification Testing Requirements:
Blanchard must perform analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the Residual solids as follows:
(i) Collect representative samples of the Residual solids for analysis of all constituents listed in paragraph (1) prior to disposal.
(ii) The samples for verification testing shall be a representative sample according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. Methods must meet Performance Based Measurement System Criteria in which the Data Quality Objectives are to demonstrate that samples of the Blanchard residual solids are representative for all constituents listed in paragraph (1).
Blanchard must perform sample collection and analyses, including quality control procedures, according to SW-846 methodologies.
(A) Initial Verification Testing:
After EPA grants the final exclusion, Blanchard must do the following:
(i) Collect four (4) representative composite samples of the residual solids at weekly intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite samples may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval. Sampling should be performed in accordance with the sampling plan approved by EPA in support of the exclusion.
(ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any composite sample taken that exceeds the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) for the residual solids must be disposed as hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable hazardous waste requirements.
(iii) Within thirty (30) days after successfully completing its initial verification testing, Blanchard may report its analytical test data for its initial four (4) weekly composite samples to EPA. If levels of constituents measured in the samples of the residual solids do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion, Blanchard can manage and dispose the non-hazardous residual solids according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(B) Subsequent Verification Testing:
If Blanchard completes initial verification testing requirements, specified in paragraph (3)(A), and no sample contains a constituent at a level which exceeds the limits set forth in paragraph (1), Blanchard may begin subsequent verification testing as follows:
(i) Blanchard must test representative composite samples of the residual solids for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per month.
(ii) The samples for the monthly testing shall be a representative composite sample according to appropriate methods.
(iii) Within thirty (30) days after completing each monthly sampling, Blanchard will report its analytical test data to EPA.
(C) Annual Verification Testing:
If levels of constituents measured in the samples of the residual solids do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion for six (6) consecutive months of subsequent verification testing, Blanchard may begin annual testing as follows:
(i) Blanchard must test representative composite samples of the residual solids for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per calendar year.
(ii) The samples for the annual testing shall be a representative composite sample according to appropriate methods.
(iii) Within sixty (60) days after completing each annual sampling, Blanchard will report its analytical test data to EPA.
(D) Termination of Organic Testing:
Blanchard must continue testing as required under Paragraph (3)(B) for organic constituents in Paragraph (1)(B), until the analytical results submitted under Paragraph (3)(B) show a minimum of three (3) consecutive monthly samples below the delisting levels in Paragraph (1). Following receipt of approval from EPA in writing, Blanchard may terminate organic testing.
(4) Changes in Operating Conditions:
If Blanchard significantly changes the process described in its petition or starts any processes that generate(s) the waste that may or could affect the composition or type of waste generated as established under Paragraph (1) (by illustration, but not limitation, changes in equipment or operating conditions of the treatment process), they must notify EPA in writing. Blanchard may no longer handle the residual solids generated from the new process as nonhazardous until they have completed verification testing described in Paragraph (3)(A) and (B), as appropriate, documented that valid analyses show that paragraph (1) is satisfied, and received written approval from EPA.
(5) Stabilization Operation:
Blanchard may periodically elect to modify operating conditions to accommodate the addition of chemical stabilization reagents during indirect thermal desorption processing. In the event that Blanchard initiates the inclusion of stabilization during operation, they may no longer handle the residual solids generated from the modified process as nonhazardous until the residual solids meet the delisting levels set in Paragraph (1) under initial verification testing requirements set in paragraph (3)(A) and verify that the stabilization reagents do not add additional constituents to the residual solid leachate. Following completion of modified operation, Blanchard can resume normal operating conditions and testing requirements under Paragraph (3), which were in place prior to initiating stabilization during operation.
(6) Data Submittals:
Blanchard must submit the information described below. If Blanchard fails to submit the required data within the specified time or maintain the required records on-site for the specified time, EPA, at its discretion, will consider this sufficient basis to reopen the exclusion as described in paragraph (7). Blanchard must:
(A) Submit the data obtained through paragraph 3 to the Section Chief, 6MM-RP, Multimedia Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 6, 1445 Ross Ave., Suite 1200, Dallas, Texas 75202, within the time specified. All supporting data can be submitted on CD-ROM or comparable electronic media.
(B) Compile records of analytical data from paragraph (3), summarized, and maintained on-site for a minimum of five years.
(C) Furnish these records and data when either EPA or the State of Texas requests them for inspection.
(D) Send along with all data a signed copy of the following certification statement, to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete.
As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete.
If any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
(7) Reopener:
(A) If, any time after disposal of the delisted waste Blanchard possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to underflow water data or ground water monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified for the delisting verification testing is at level higher than the delisting level allowed by the Division Director in granting the petition, then the facility must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(B) If either the verification testing (and retest, if applicable) of the waste does not meet the delisting requirements in paragraph 1, Blanchard must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(C) If Blanchard fails to submit the information described in paragraphs (6), (7)(A) or (7)(B) or if any other information is received from any source, the Division Director will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires EPA action to protect human health and/or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(D) If the Division Director determines that the reported information requires action by EPA, the Division Director will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Division Director believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed EPA action is not necessary. The facility shall have 10 days from receipt of the Division Director's notice to present such information.
(E) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (7)(D) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (7)(D)) the initial receipt of information described in paragraphs (6), (7)(A) or (7)(B), the Division Director will issue a final written determination describing EPA actions that are necessary to protect human health and/or the environment. Any required action described in the Division Director's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Division Director provides otherwise.
(8) Notification Requirements:
Blanchard must do the following before transporting the delisted waste. Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting petition and a possible revocation of the decision.
(A) Provide a one-time written notification to any state Regulatory Agency to which or through which it will transport the delisted waste described above for disposal, 60 days before beginning such activities.
(B) For onsite disposal, a notice should be submitted to the State to notify the State that disposal of the delisted materials has begun.
(C) Update one-time written notification, if it ships the delisted waste into a different disposal facility.
(D) Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting exclusion and a possible revocation of the decision.
BMW Manufacturing Co., LLC
Greer, South Carolina
Wastewater treatment sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) that BMW Manufacturing Corporation (BMW) generates by treating wastewater from automobile assembly plant located on Highway 101 South in Greer, South Carolina. This is a conditional exclusion for up to 2,850 cubic yards of waste (hereinafter referred to as “BMW Sludge”) that will be generated each year and disposed in a Subtitle D landfill after August 31, 2005. With prior approval by the EPA, following a public comment period, BMW may also beneficially reuse the sludge. BMW must demonstrate that the following conditions are met for the exclusion to be valid.
(1) Delisting Levels: All leachable concentrations for these metals and cyanide must not exceed the following levels (ppm): Barium-100; Cadmium-1; Chromium-5; Cyanide-33.6, Lead-5; and Nickel-70.3. These metal and cyanide concentrations must be measured in the waste leachate obtained by the method specified in 40 CFR 261.24, except that for cyanide, deionized water must be the leaching medium. Cyanide concentrations in waste or leachate must be measured by the method specified in 40 CFR 268.40, Note 7.
(2) Annual Verification Testing Requirements: Sample collection and analyses, including quality control procedures, must be performed using appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A, (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. Methods must meet Performance Based Measurement System Criteria in which the Data Quality Objectives are to demonstrate that representative samples of the BMW Sludge meet the delisting levels in Condition (1). (A) Annual Verification Testing: BMW must implement an annual testing program to demonstrate that constituent concentrations measured in the TCLP extract do not exceed the delisting levels established in Condition (1).
(3) Waste Holding and Handling: BMW must hold sludge containers utilized for verification sampling until composite sample results are obtained. If the levels of constituents measured in the composite samples of BMW Sludge do not exceed the levels set forth in Condition (1), then the BMW Sludge is non-hazardous and must be managed in accordance with all applicable solid waste regulations. If constituent levels in a composite sample exceed any of the delisting levels set forth in Condition (1), the batch of BMW Sludge generated during the time period corresponding to this sample must be managed and disposed of in accordance with Subtitle C of RCRA.
(4) Changes in Operating Conditions: BMW must notify EPA in writing when significant changes in the manufacturing or wastewater treatment processes are implemented. EPA will determine whether these changes will result in additional constituents of concern. If so, EPA will notify BMW in writing that the BMW Sludge must be managed as hazardous waste F019 until BMW has demonstrated that the wastes meet the delisting levels set forth in Condition (1) and any levels established by EPA for the additional constituents of concern, and BMW has received written approval from EPA. If EPA determines that the changes do not result in additional constituents of concern, EPA will notify BMW, in writing, that BMW must verify that the BMW Sludge continues to meet Condition (1) delisting levels.
(5) Data Retention: Records of analytical data from Condition (2) must be compiled, summarized, and maintained by BMW for a minimum of three years, and must be furnished upon request by EPA or the State of South Carolina, and made available for inspection. Failure to maintain the required records for the specified time will be considered by EPA, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent directed by EPA. All data must be accompanied by a signed copy of the certification statement in 40 CFR 260.22(i)(12).
(6) Reopener Language: (A) If, at any time after disposal of the delisted waste, BMW possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified in the delisting verification testing is at a level higher than the delisting level allowed by EPA in granting the petition, BMW must report the data, in writing, to EPA and South Carolina within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data. (B) If the testing of the waste, as required by Condition (2)(A), does not meet the delisting requirements of Condition (1), BMW must report the data, in writing, to EPA and South Carolina within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data. (C) Based on the information described in paragraphs (6)(A) or (6)(B) and any other information received from any source, EPA will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires that EPA take action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment. (D) If EPA determines that the reported information does require Agency action, EPA will notify the facility in writing of the action believed necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing BMW with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed action is not necessary. BMW shall have 10 days from the date of EPA's notice to present such information. (E) Following the receipt of information from BMW, as described in paragraph (6)(D), or if no such information is received within 10 days, EPA will issue a final written determination describing the Agency actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment, given the information received in accordance with paragraphs (6)(A) or (6)(B). Any required action described in EPA's determination shall become effective immediately, unless EPA provides otherwise.
(7) Notification Requirements: BMW must provide a one-time written notification to any State Regulatory Agency in a State to which or through which the delisted waste described above will be transported, at least 60 days prior to the commencement of such activities. Failure to provide such a notification will result in a violation of the delisting conditions and a possible revocation of the decision to delist.
Boeing Commercial Airplane Co.
Auburn, Washington
Residually contaminated soils in an inactive sludge pile containment area on March 27, 1990, previously used to store wastewater treatment sludges generated from electroplating operations (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006).
Bommer Industries Inc.
Landrum, SC
Wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated from their electroplating operations and contained in evaporation ponds #1 and #2 on August 12, 1987.
BWX] Technologies
Lynchburg, VA
Wastewater treatment sludge from electroplating operations (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated at a maximum annual rate of 500 cubic yards per year, after January 14, 2000, and disposed of in a Subtitle D landfill. BWX Technologies must meet the following conditions for the exclusion to be valid:
(1) Delisting Levels: All leachable concentrations for the following constituents measure using the SW-846 method 1311 (the TCLP) must not exceed the following levels (mg/l). (a) Inorganic constituents—Antimony-0.6; Arsenic-5.0; Barium-100; Beryllium-0.4; Cadmium-0.5; Chromium-5.0; Cobalt-210; Copper-130; Lead-1.5; Mercury-0.2; Nickel-70; Silver-5.0; Thallium-0.2; Tin-2100; Zinc-1000; Fluoride-400. (b) Organic constituents—Acetone-400; Methylene Chloride-0.5.
(2) Verification testing schedule: BWX Technologies must analyze a representative sample of the filter cake from the pickle acid treatment system on an annual, calendar year basis using methods with appropriate detection levels and quality control procedures. If the level of any constituent measured in the sample of filter cake exceeds the levels set forth in Paragraph 1, then the waste is hazardous and must be managed in accordance with Subtitle C of RCRA. Data from the annual verification testing must be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the sampling event.
(3) Changes in Operating Conditions: If BWX Technologies significantly changes the manufacturing or treatment process described in the petition, or the chemicals used in the manufacturing or treatment process, BWX Technologies may not manage the filter cake generated from the new process under this exclusion until it has met the following conditions: (a) BWX Technologies must demonstrate that the waste meets the delisting levels set forth in Paragraph 1; (b) it must demonstrate that no new hazardous constituents listed in appendix VIII of part 261 have been introduced into the manufacturing or treatment process: and (c) it must obtain prior written approval from EPA to manage the waste under this exclusion.
(4) Data Submittals: The data obtained under Paragraphs 2 and 3 must be submitted to The Waste and Chemicals Management Division, U.S. EPA Region III, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. Records of operating conditions and analytical data must be compiled, summarized, and maintained on site for a minimum of five years and must be furnished upon request by EPA or the Commonwealth of Virginia, and made available for inspection. Failure to submit the required data within the specified time period or to maintain the required records on site for the specified time period will be considered by EPA, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent determined necessary by EPA. All data must be accompanied by a signed copy of the certification statement set forth in 40 CFR 260.22(i)(12) to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted.
(5) Reopener:
(a) If BWX Technologies discovers that a condition at the facility or an assumption related to the disposal of the excluded waste that was modeled or predicted in the petition does not occur as modeled or predicted, then BWX Technologies must report any information relevant to that condition, in writing, to the Regional Administrator or his delegate within 10 days of discovering that condition.
(b) Upon receiving information described in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of its source, the Regional Administrator or his delegate will determine whether the reported condition requires further action. Further action may include repealing the exclusion, modifying the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(6) Notification Requirements: BWX Technologies must provide a one-time written notification to any State Regulatory Agency to which or through which the delisted waste described above will be transported for disposal at least 60 days prior to the commencement of such activities. Failure to provide such a notification will be deemed to be a violation of this exclusion and may result in a revocation of the decision.
Capitol Products Corp.
Harrisburg, PA
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. FO19) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after September 12, 1986.
Capitol Products Corporation
Kentland, IN
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after November 17, 1986.
Care Free Aluminum Products, Inc.
Charlotte, Michigan
Wastewater treatment sludge (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum (generated at a maximum annual rate of 100 cubic yards), after August 21, 1992. In order to confirm that the characteristics of the waste do not change significantly, the facility must, on an annual basis, analyze a representative composite sample for the constituents listed in § 261.24 using the method specified therein. The annual analytical results, including quality control information, must be compiled, certified according to § 260.22(i)(12), maintained on-site for a minimum of five years, and made available for inspection upon request by any employee or representative of EPA or the State of Michigan. Failure to maintain the required records on-site will be considered by EPA, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent directed by EPA.
Chamberlian-Featherlite, Inc.
Hot Springs, AR
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F019) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after July 16, 1986.
Chrysler Group LLC at the Old Carco LLC Sterling Heights Assembly Plant
Sterling Heights, Michigan
Wastewater treatment sludges, F019, that are generated at Old Carco LLC's Sterling Heights Assembly Plant, (SHAP), Sterling Heights, Michigan by Chrysler Group LLC at a maximum annual rate of 3,000 cubic yards per year. The sludges must be disposed of in a lined landfill with leachate collection which is licensed, permitted, or otherwise authorized to accept the delisted wastewater treatment sludges in accordance with 40 CFR part 258. The exclusion becomes effective as of November 6, 2009.
1.
Delisting Levels:
The concentrations in a leachate extract of the waste measured in any sample must not exceed the following levels (mg/L): arsenic—0.22; nickel—67.8; benzene—0.057; hexachlorobenzene—0.0000724; naphthalene—0.00822; and pentachlorophenol—0.00607.
2.
Quarterly Verification Testing:
To verify that the waste does not exceed the specified delisting levels, Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must collect and analyze one representative sample of the waste on a quarterly basis. Sample collection and analyses, including quality control procedures, must be performed using appropriate methods. SW-846 Method 1311 must be used for generation of the leachate extract used in the testing of the delisting levels if oil and grease comprise less than 1% of the waste. SW-846 Method 1330A must be used for generation of the leaching extract if oil and grease comprise 1% or more of the waste. SW-846 Method 9071B must be used for determination of oil and grease. SW-846 Methods 1311, 1330A, and 9071B are incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11.
3.
Changes in Operating Conditions:
Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must notify the EPA in writing if the manufacturing process, the chemicals used in the manufacturing process, the treatment process, or the chemicals used in the treatment process change significantly. Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must handle wastes generated after the process change as hazardous until it has demonstrated that the wastes continue to meet the delisting levels and that no new hazardous constituents listed in Appendix VIII of part 261 have been introduced and it has received written approval from EPA.
4.
Data Submittals:
Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must submit the data obtained through verification testing or as required by other conditions of this rule to both U.S. EPA Region 5, 77 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604 and MDEQ, Waste and Hazardous Materials Division, Hazardous Waste Section, at P.O. Box 30241, Lansing, Michigan 48909. The quarterly verification data and certification of proper disposal must be submitted annually upon the anniversary of the effective date of this exclusion. Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must compile, summarize and maintain on site for a minimum of five years records of operating conditions and analytical data. Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must make these records available for inspection. A signed copy of the certification statement in 40 CFR 260.22(i)(12) must accompany all data.
5.
Reopener Language
—(a) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC possesses or is otherwise made aware of any data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent is at a level in the leachate higher than the specified delisting level, or is in the groundwater at a concentration higher than the maximum allowable groundwater concentration in paragraph (e), then Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC must report such data, in writing, to the Regional Administrator within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(b) Based on the information described in paragraph (a) and any other information received from any source, the Regional Administrator will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires Agency action to protect human health or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(c) If the Regional Administrator determines that the reported information does require Agency action, the Regional Administrator will inform Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC in writing of the actions the Regional Administrator believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed Agency action is not necessary or to suggest an alternative action. Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC shall have 30 days from the date of the Regional Administrator's notice to present the information.
(d) If after 30 days Chrysler Group LLC or Old Carco LLC presents no further information, the Regional Administrator will issue a final written determination describing the Agency actions that are necessary to protect human health or the environment. Any required action described in the Regional Administrator's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Regional Administrator provides otherwise.
(e) Maximum Allowable Groundwater Concentrations (µg/L): arsenic—4.87; nickel—750; benzene—2.5; hexachlorobenzene—0.00168; naphthalene—245; and pentachlorophenol—0.071.
Cincinnati Metropolitan Sewer District
Cincinnati, OH
Sluiced bottom ash (approximately 25,000 cubic yards) contained in the South Lagoon, on September 13, 1985 which contains EPA Hazardous Waste Nos. F001, F002, F003, F004, and F005.
Clay Equipment Corporation
Cedar Falls, Iowa
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) and spent cyanide bath solutions (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F009) generated from electroplating operations and disposed of in an on-site surface impoundment. This is a onetime exclusion. This exclusion was published on August 1, 1989.
Continental Can Co.
Olympia, WA
Dewatered wastewater treatment sludges (DPA Hazardous Waste No. FO19) generated from the chemical conversion coating of aluminum after September 12, 1986.
Cooper Crouse-Hinds
Amarillo, TX
Wastewater Treatment Sludge (Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated at a maximum annual rate of 816 cubic yards per calendar year after April 15, 2009 and disposed in Subtitle D Landfill.
For the exclusion to be valid, Cooper Crouse-Hinds must implement a verification testing program that meets the following Paragraphs:
(1) Delisting Levels: All concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the maximum allowable concentrations in mg/l specified in this paragraph.
WWTP Sludge Leachable Concentrations (mg/l):
(i) Inorganic Constituents:
Arsenic-0.0759; Barium-100; Cadmium-0.819; Copper-216; Iron-1.24; Manganese-145; Nickel-119; Zinc-18.
(ii) Organic Constituents:
Benzene-0.5.
(2) Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Waste classification as non-hazardous can not begin until compliance with the limits set in paragraph (1) for WWTP sludge has occurred for two consecutive quarterly sampling events.
(B) If constituent levels in any sample taken by Cooper Crouse-Hinds exceed any of the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) for the WWTP sludge, Cooper Crouse-Hinds must do the following:
(i) Notify EPA in accordance with paragraph (6) and
(ii) Manage and dispose WWTP sludge as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA.
(3) Testing Requirements:
Upon this exclusion becoming final, Cooper Crouse-Hinds may perform quarterly analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the WWTP sludge as follows:
(A) Quarterly Testing:
(i) Collect two representative composite samples of the sludge at quarterly intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite samples may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval. Sampling must be performed in accordance with the sampling plan approved by EPA in support of the exclusion.
(ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any composite sample taken that exceeds the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) for the sludge must be disposed as hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable hazardous waste requirements.
(iii) Within thirty (30) days after taking its first quarterly sample, Cooper Crouse-Hinds will report its first quarterly analytical test data to EPA. If levels of constituents measured in the samples of the sludge do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion for two consecutive quarters, Cooper Crouse-Hinds can manage and dispose the non-hazardous WWTP sludge according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(B) Annual Testing:
(i) If Cooper Crouse-Hinds completes the quarterly testing specified in paragraph (3) above and no sample contains a constituent at a level which exceeds the limits set forth in paragraph (1), Cooper Crouse-Hinds may begin annual testing as follows: Cooper Crouse-Hinds must test two representative composite samples of the WWTP sludge for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per calendar year.
(ii) The samples for the annual testing shall be a representative composite sample according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010B, 1020C,1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (uses EPA Method 1664, Rev. A), 9071B, and 9095B. Methods must meet Performance Based Measurement System Criteria in which the Data Quality Objectives are to demonstrate that samples of the WWTP sludge is representative for all constituents listed in paragraph (1).
(iii) The samples for the annual testing taken for the second and subsequent annual testing events shall be taken within the same calendar month as the first annual sample taken.
(iv) The annual testing report should include the total amount of delisted waste in cubic yards disposed as non-hazardous waste during the calendar year.
(4) Changes in Operating Conditions: If Cooper Crouse-Hinds significantly changes the process described in its petition or starts any processes that generate(s) the waste that may or could affect the composition or type of waste generated (by illustration, but not limitation, changes in equipment or operating conditions of the treatment process), it must notify EPA in writing and it may no longer handle the wastes generated from the new process as non-hazardous until the wastes meet the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) and it has received written approval to do so from EPA.
Cooper Crouse-Hinds must submit a modification to the petition, complete with full sampling and analysis, for circumstances where the waste volume changes and/or additional waste codes are added to the waste stream, if it wishes to dispose of the material as non-hazardous.
(5) Data Submittals:
Cooper Crouse-Hinds must submit the information described below. If Cooper Crouse-Hinds fails to submit the required data within the specified time or maintain the required records on-site for the specified time, EPA, at its discretion, will consider this sufficient basis to reopen the exclusion as described in paragraph (6). Cooper Crouse-Hinds must:
(A) Submit the data obtained through paragraph (3) to the Chief, Corrective Action and Waste Minimization Section, Multimedia Planning and Permitting Division, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 6, 1445 Ross Ave., Dallas, Texas, 75202, within the time specified. All supporting data can be submitted on CD-ROM or comparable electronic media.
(B) Compile records of analytical data from paragraph (3), summarized, and maintained on-site for a minimum of five years.
(C) Furnish these records and data when either EPA or the State of Texas requests them for inspection.
(D) Send along with all data a signed copy of the following certification statement, to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete.
“As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete.
“If any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
(6) Re-opener:
(A) If, anytime after disposal of the delisted waste Cooper Crouse-Hinds possesses or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or ground water monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste indicating that any constituent identified for the delisting verification testing is at level higher than the delisting level allowed by the Division Director in granting the petition, then the facility must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(B) If either the quarterly or annual testing of the waste does not meet the delisting requirements in paragraph (1), Cooper Crouse-Hinds must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data.
(C) If Cooper Crouse-Hinds fails to submit the information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B) or if any other information is received from any source, the Division Director will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires EPA action to protect human health and/or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment.
(D) If the Division Director determines that the reported information requires action by EPA, the Division Director will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Division Director believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed EPA action is not necessary. The facility shall have 10 days from the date of the Division Director's notice to present such information.
(E) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (6)(D) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (6)(D)) the initial receipt of information described in paragraphs (5), (6)(A) or (6)(B), the Division Director will issue a final written determination describing EPA actions that are necessary to protect human health and/or the environment. Any required action described in the Division Director's determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Division Director provides otherwise.
(7) Notification Requirements:
Cooper Crouse-Hinds must do the following before transporting the delisted waste. Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting petition and a possible revocation of the decision.
(A) Provide a one-time written notification to any state Regulatory Agency to which or through which it will transport the delisted waste described above for disposal, 60 days before beginning such activities.
(B) Update the one-time written notification if it ships the delisted waste into a different disposal facility.
(C) Failure to provide this notification will result in a violation of the delisting variance and a possible revocation of the decision.
Covestro Industrial Park Baytown
Baytown, TX
Outfall 007 Treated Effluent (EPA hazardous Waste No. K027, K104, K111 and K112) generated at a maximum rate of 18,071,150 cubic yards (5.475 billion gallons) per calendar year after July 25, 2005, as it exits the Outfall Tank and disposed in accordance with the TPDES permit.
The delisting levels set do not relieve Bayer of its duty to comply with the limits set in its TPDES permit. For the exclusion to be valid, Covestro must implement a verification testing program that meets the following Paragraphs:
(1) Delisting Levels: All concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the maximum allowable concentrations in mg/kg specified in the paragraph.
Outfall 007 Treated Effluent Total Concentrations (mg/kg): Antimony-0.0816; Arsenic-0.385, Barium-22.2; Chromium-153.0; Copper-3620.0;Cyanide-0.46;Mercury-0.0323;Nickel-11.3;Selenium-0.23;Thallium-0.0334;Vanadium-8.38;Zinc;112.0;Acetone-14.6;Acetophenone-15.8;Aniline-0.680;Benzene-0.0590; Bis(2ethylhexyl)phthalate-1260.0; Bromodichloromethane-0.0719; Chloroform-0.077; Di-n-octyl phthalate-454.0;2,4-Dinitrotoluene-0.00451; Diphenylamine-11.8; 1,4-Dioxana-1.76; Di-n-butyl phthalate-149.0; Fluoranthaene-24.6; Methylene chloride-0.029; Methyl ethyl ketone-87.9; Nitrobenzene-0.0788; m-phenylenediamine-0.879;Pyrene-39.0;1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane-0.703; o-Toluidine-0.0171; p-Toluidine-0.215; 2,4-Toluenediamine-0.00121. Toluene diisocyanate-0.001.
(2) Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Waste classification as non-hazardous cannot begin until compliance with the limits set in paragraph (1) for the treated effluent has occurred for two consecutive quarterly sampling events and those reports have been approved by the EPA.
The delisting for the treated effluent applies only during periods of TPDES compliance.
(B) If constituent levels in any sample taken by Covestro exceed any of the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) for the treated effluent, Covestro must do the following: (i) notify EPA in accordance with paragraph (6) and (ii) Manage and dispose the treated effluent as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA (iii) Routine inspection and regular maintenance of the effluent pipe line must occur to prevent spills and leaks of the treated effluent prior to discharge.
(1) Testing Requirements: Sample collection and analyses, including quality control procedures, must be performed using appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by references in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used without substitution. As applicable, the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0011, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051, 0060, 0061, 1010A, 1020B, 1110A, 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (used EPA method 1664, Rev A), 9071B and 9095B. Methods must meet Performance based Measurement System Criteria in which Data Quality objectives are to demonstrate that representative samples of the Covestro treated effluent meet the delisting levels in paragraph (1).
(A) Quarterly Testing: Upon the exclusion becoming final, Covestro may perform quarterly analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the treated effluent as follows (i) Collect two representative composite samples of the treated effluent at quarterly intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite samples may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval. Sampling should be performed in accordance with the sampling plan approved by EPA in support of the exclusion. (ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any composite sample taken that exceeds the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) for the treated effluent must be disposed of as a hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable hazardous waste requirements in its TPDES discharge permit. (iii) Within thirty (30) days after taking its first quarterly sample, Covestro will report its first quarterly analytical test date to EPA. If levels of constituents measured in the samples of the treated effluent do not exceed the levels set forth in paragraph (1) of this exclusion for two consecutive quarters, Covestro can mange and dispose the nonhazardous treated effluent according to all applicable solid waste regulations.
(B) Annual Testing: (i) If Covestro completes the four (4) quarterly testing events specified in paragraph (3) (A) above and no samples contains a constituent with a level which exceeds the limits set forth in paragraph (1), Covestro may begin annual testing as follows: Covestro must test two representative composite samples of the treated effluent for all constituents listed in paragraph (1) at least once per calendar year. (ii) The samples for the annual testing shall be a representative composite sample according to appropriate methods. As applicable to the method-defined parameters of concern, analyses requiring the use of SW-846 methods incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11 must be used with substitution. As applicable the SW-846 methods might include Methods 0010, 0020, 0023A, 0030, 0031, 0040, 0050, 0051,0060, 0061, 1010A, 1020A, 1110A 1310B, 1311, 1312, 1320, 1330A, 9010C, 9012B, 9040C, 9045D, 9060A, 9070A (used EPA Method 1664 Rev. A) 9071B and 9005B. Methods must meet Performance Based Management System Criteria in which the Data Quality Objectives are to demonstrate that representative samples of the Covestro treated effluent testing taken for the second and subsequent annual testing events shall be taken within the same calendar month as he first annual sample taken.
(1) Changes in Operating Conditions: If Covestro significantly changes the process describes in its petition or starts any process that generates(s) the waste that may or could affect the composition or type of waste generated as established under paragraph (1) (by illustration, but nit limitation changes in equipment or operating conditions of the treatment process), it must notify EPA in writing; it may no longer handle the waste generated from the new process as nonhazardous until the waste meet the delisting levels set in paragraphs (1) and it has received written approval to do so from EPA. Covestro must submit a modification to the petition complete with full sampling and analysis for circumstances where volume changes and/or additional waste codes are added to the waste stream.
(2) Data Submittals: Covestro must submit the information described below. If Covestro fails to submit the required data within the specified time or maintain the required records on site for the specified time, EPA, at its discretion, will consider this sufficient basis to reopen the exclusion as described in paragraph (6). Covestro must: (i) Submit the data obtained through paragraph (3) to the Section Supervisor, RCRA Corrective Action, UST, Solid Waste and Permit Branch, EPA Region 6 1201 Elm Street Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270, Mail Code, (6LCR-RC) within the time specified. (ii) Compile records of analytical data from paragraph (3), summarized, and maintained on-site for a minimum of five years. (iii) Furnish these records and data when either EPA or the State of Texas request them for inspection. (iv) Send along with all data signed copy of following certification statement, to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted:
“Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928, I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this documents is true, accurate and complete.
Also, to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having a supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete.
If any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.”
(3) Reopener: (i) If, any time after disposal of the delisted waste Covestro possess or is otherwise made aware of any environmental data (including but not limited to leachate data or groundwater monitoring data) or any other data relevant to the delisted waste including that any constituent identified for the delisting verification testing is at level higher than the delisting level allowed by the Division Director within 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data. (ii) If either the quarterly or annual testing of the waste does not meet the delisting requirements in paragraph (1) Covestro must report the data, in writing, to the Division Director with 10 days of first possessing or being made aware of that data. (iii) if Covestro fails to submit the information described in paragraph (5), (6)(i), or (6)(ii) or if any other information is received from any source, the Division Director will make a preliminary determination as to whether the reported information requires EPA action to protect human health and/or the environment. Further action may include suspending, or revoking the exclusion, or other appropriate response necessary to protect human health and the environment. (iv) if the Division Director determines that the reported information requires action by EPA, the Division Director will notify the facility in writing of the actions the Division Director believes are necessary to protect human health and the environment. The notice shall include a statement of the proposed action and a statement providing the facility with an opportunity to present information as to why the proposed EPA action is not necessary. The facility shall have 10 days from the date of the Division Director's notice to present such information. (v) Following the receipt of information from the facility described in paragraph (6)(iv) or (if no information is presented under paragraph (6)(iv)(ii) the initial receipt of information described in paragraphs (5)(6)(i) or (6)(ii), the Division Director will issue a final written determination describing EPA actions that are necessary to protect human health and/or the environment. Any required action described in the Division Directors' determination shall become effective immediately, unless the Division Director provides otherwise.
Covestro, LLC
Baytown, TX
Toluene Diisocyanate (TDI) Residue (EPA Hazardous Waste No. K027) generated at a maximum rate of 9,780 cubic yards per calendar year after March 12, 2009.
For the exclusion to be valid, Covestro must implement a verification testing program that meets the following Paragraphs:
(1)
Delisting Levels:
All concentrations for those constituents must not exceed the maximum allowable concentrations in mg/l specified in this paragraph.
TDI Residue Leachable Concentrations (mg/l): Arsenic—0.10, Barium—36.0; Chloromethane—6.06; Chromium—2.27; Cobalt—13.6; Copper—25.9; Cyanide—3.08; Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid—1.08; Diethyl phthalate—1000.0; Endrin—0.02; Lead—0.702; Nickel—13.5; ortho-dichlorobenzene—9.72; Selenium—0.89; Tin—22.5; Vanadium—0.976; Zinc—197.0; 2,4-Toluenediamine—0.0459; Toluene Diisocyanate—0.039.
(2)
Waste Holding and Handling:
(A) Covestro must manage the TDI residue in a manner to ensure that the residues are offloaded safely and opportunities for chemical self-reaction and expansion are minimized. The TDI residue must be handled to ensure that contact with water is minimized.
(B) Waste classification as non-hazardous cannot begin until compliance with the limits set in paragraph (1) for the TDI residue has occurred for two consecutive quarterly sampling events and the reports have been approved by EPA.
(C) If constituent levels in any sample taken by Covestro exceed any of the delisting levels set in paragraph (1) for the TDI residue, Covestro must do the following:
(i) Notify EPA in accordance with paragraph (6) and
(ii) manage and dispose the TDI residue as hazardous waste generated under Subtitle C of RCRA.
(3)
Testing Requirements:
Upon this exclusion becoming final, Covestro must perform quarterly analytical testing by sampling and analyzing the TDI residue as follows:
(A)
Quarterly Testing:
(i) Collect two representative composite samples of the TDI residue at quarterly intervals after EPA grants the final exclusion. The first composite samples may be taken at any time after EPA grants the final approval. Sampling should be performed in accordance with the sampling plan approved by EPA in support of the exclusion.
(ii) Analyze the samples for all constituents listed in paragraph (1). Any composite sample taken that exceeds the delisting levels listed in paragraph (1) for the TDI residue must be disposed as hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable hazardous waste requirements.
