shall be construed to include only workmen employed and paid directly by the prime contractor and equipment owned or rented by him, with or without operators.
b.
Specialty items
shall be construed to be limited to work that requires highly specialized knowledge, craftsmanship or equipment not ordinarily available in contracting organizations qualified to bid on the contract as a whole and in general are to be limited to minor components of the overall contract.
2. In addition to the 50 percent requirements set forth in paragraph 1 above, the contractor shall furnish (a) a competent superintendent or foreman who is employed by him, who has full authority to direct performance of the work in accordance with the contract requirements, and who is in charge of all construction operations (regardless of who performs the work), and (b) such other of his own organizational capability and responsibility (supervision, management, and engineering services) as the State highway department contracting officer determines is necessary to assure the performance of the contract.
3. The contract amount upon which the 50 percent requirement set forth in paragraph 1 is computed includes the cost of materials and manufactured products which are to be purchased or produced by the contractor under the contract provisions.
4. Any items that have been selected as
Specialty Items
for the contract are listed as such in the Special Provisions, bid schedule, or elsewhere in the contract documents.
5. No portion of the contract shall be sublet, assigned or otherwise disposed of except with the written consent of the State highway department contracting officer, or his authorized representative, and such consent when given shall not be construed to relieve the contractor of any responsibility for the fulfillment of the contract. Request for permission to sublet, assign or otherwise dispose of any portion of the contract shall be in writing and accompanied by (a) a showing that the organization which will perform the work is particularly experienced and equipped for such work, and (b) an assurance by the contractor that the labor standards provisions set forth in thiscontract shall apply to labor performed on all work encompassed by the request.
X.
Safety: Accident prevention.
In the performance of this contract, the contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws governing safety, health and sanitation. The contractor shall provide all safeguards, safety devices and protective equipment and take any other needed actions, on his own responsibility, or as the State highway department contracting officer may determine, reasonably necessary to protect the life and health of employees on the job and the safety of the public and to protect property in connection with the performance of the work covered by the contract.
It is a condition of this contract, and shall be made a condition of each subcontract entered into pursuant to this contract, that the contractor and any subcontractor shall not require any laborer or mechanic employed in performance of the contract to work in surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to his health or safety, as determined under construction safety and health standards (title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, part 1926, formerly part 1518, as revised from time to time), promulgated by the United States Secretary of Labor, in accordance with section 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (83 Stat. 96).
XI.
False statements concerning highway projects.
In order to assure high quality and durable construction in conformity with approved plans and specifications and a high degree of reliability on statements and representations made by engineers, contractors, suppliers, and workers on Federal-aid highway
projects, it is essential that all persons concerned with the project perform their functions as carefully, thoroughly and honestly as possible. Willfull falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation with respect to any facts related to the project is a violation of Federal law. To prevent any misunderstanding regarding the seriousness of these and similar acts, the following notice shall be posted on each Federal-aid highway project in one or more places where it is readily available to all personnel concerned with the project:

# Notice to All Personnel Engaged on Federal-Aid Highway Projects
Title 18 U.S.C., section 1020, reads as follows:
“Whoever, being an officer, agent, or employee of the United States, or of any State or Territory, or whoever, whether a person, association, firm, or corporation, knowingly makes any false statement, false representation, or false report as to the character, quality, quantity, or cost of the material used or to be used, or the quantity or quality of the work performed or to be performed or the costs thereof in connection with the submission of plans, maps, specifications, contracts, or costs of construction of any highway or related project submitted for approval to the Secretary of Transportation; or
“Whoever knowingly makes any false statement, false representation, false report, or false claim with respect to the character, quality, quantity, or cost of any work performed or to be performed, or materials furnished or to be furnished, in connection with the construction of any highway or related project approved by the Secretary of Transportation; or
“Whoever knowingly makes any false statement or false representation as to a material fact in any statement, certificate, or report submitted pursuant to provisions of the Federal-Aid Road Act approved July 1, 1916 (39 Stat. 355), as amended and supplemented;
“Shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.”
XII.
Implementation of Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act (applicable to contracts and subcontracts which exceed $100,000).
1. The contractor stipulates that any facility to be utilized in the performance of this contract, unless such contract is exempt under the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1857
et seq.,
as amended by Pub. L. 91-604), and under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.,
as amended by Pub. L. 92-500), Executive Order 11738, and regulations in implementation thereof (40 CFR part 15), is listed not on the date of contract award, on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) List of Violating Facilities Pursuant to 40 CFR part 15.20.
2. The contractor agrees to comply with all the requirements of section 114 of the Clean Air Act and section 308 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and all regulations and guidelines listed thereunder.
3. The contractor shall promptly notify the State highway department of the receipt of any communication from the Director, Office of Federal Activities, EPA, indicating that a facility to be utilized for the contract is under consideration to be listed on the EPA List of Violating Facilities.
4. The contractor agrees to include or cause to be included the requirements of subparagraphs 1 through 4 of this paragraph XII in every subcontract which exceeds $100,000, and further agrees to take such action as Government may direct as a means of enforcing such requirements.
[40 FR 49084, Oct. 21, 1975]
Pt. 633, Subpt. B, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 633—Additional Required Contract Provisions, Appalachian Development Highway System and Local Access Roads Contracts Other Than Construction Contracts

# Equal Opportunity: Employment Practices and Selection of Subcontractors, Suppliers of Materials, and Lessors of Equipment
During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:
1.
Compliance with regulations.
The contractor will comply with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 324 and with the Regulations of the Department of Transportation relative to nondiscrimination in Federally-assisted programs of the Department of Transportation (Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, part 21, hereinafter referred to as the regulations), which are herein incorporated by reference and made a part of this contract.
2.
Employment practices
a. The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, sex, or national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, sex, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: recruitment or recruitment
advertising, hiring, firing, upgrading, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation or benefits, selection for training or apprenticeship, use of facilities and treatment of employees. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this employment practices clause.
b. The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, sex, or national origin.
c. The contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice advising the said labor union or workers representative of the contractor's commitments under the employment practices provision, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.
3.
Selection of subcontractors, procurement of materials and leasing of equipment.
a. The contractor, with regard to the work performed by him after award and prior to completion of the contract work, will not discriminate on the ground of race, color, sex, or national origin in the selection and retention of subcontractors, including procurements of materials and leases of equipment. The contractor will not participate either directly or indirectly in the discrimination prohibited by Section 21.5 of the Regulations.
b. In all solicitations either by competitive bidding or negotiation made by the contractor for work to be performed under a subcontract, including procurements of materials or leases of equipment, each potential subcontractor, supplier, or lessor shall be notified by the contractor of the contractor's obligations under this contract and the Regulations relative to nondiscrimination on the ground of race, color, sex, or national origin.
4.
Information and reports.
The contractor will provide all information and reports required by the Regulations, or orders and instructions issued pursuant thereto, and will permit access to its books, records, accounts, other sources of information, and its facilities as may be determined by the State highway department or the Federal Highway Administration to be pertinent to ascertain compliance with such Regulations, orders and instructions. Where any information required of a contractor is in the exclusive possession of another who fails or refuses to furnish this information, the contractor shall so certify to the State highway department, or the Federal Highway Administration as appropriate, and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information.
5.
Incorporation of provisions.
The contractor will include these additional required contract provisions in every subcontract, including procurements of materials and leases of equipment, unless exempt by the Regulations or orders, or instructions issued pursuant thereto. The contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract, procurement, or lease as the State highway department or the Federal Highway Administration may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions including sanctions for non-compliance:
Provided, however,
That, in the event a contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor, supplier, or lessor as a result of such directed action, the contractor may request the State to enter into such litigation to protect the interest of the State, and, in addition, the contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interest of the United States.
6.
Sanctions for noncompliance.
In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with sections 1 through 5 above, the State highway department shall impose such contract sanctions as it or the Federal Highway Administration may determine to be appropriate, including but not limited to.
a. Withholding of payments to the contractor under the contract until the contractor complies, and/or
b. Cancellation, termination or suspension of the contract in whole or in part.
[40 FR 49088, Oct. 21, 1975]
Pt. 633, Subpt. B, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 633—Federal-Aid Proposal Notices

# Notices to Prospective Federal-Aid Construction Contractors
I.
Certification of nonsegregated facilities.
(a) A Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities, as required by the May 9, 1967, Order of the Secretary of Labor (32 FR 7439, May 19, 1967) on Elimination of Segregated Facilities (is included in the proposal and must be submitted prior to the award of a Federal-aid highway construction contract exceeding $10,000 which is not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause).
(b) Bidders are cautioned as follows: By signing this bid, the bidder will be deemed to have signed and agreed to the provisions of the “Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities” in this proposal. This certification provides that the bidder does not maintain or provide for his employees facilities which are segregated on a basis of race, creed, color, or national origin, whether such facilities are segregated by directive or on a de facto
basis. The certification also provides that the bidder will not maintain such segregated facilities.
(c) Bidders receiving Federal-aid highway construction contract awards exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause, will be required to provide for the forwarding of the following notice to prospective subcontractors for construction contracts and material suppliers where the subcontracts or material supply agreements exceed $10,000 and are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause.

# Notice to Prospective Subcontractors and Material Suppliers of Requirement for Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities
(a) A Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities is required by the May 9, 1967, Order of the Secretary of Labor (32 FR 7431, May 19, 1967) on Elimination of Segregated Facilities, which is included in the proposal, or attached hereto, must be submitted by each subcontractor and material supplier prior to the award of the subcontract or consummation of a material supply agreement if such subcontract or agreement exceeds $10,000 and is not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause.
(b) Subcontractors and material suppliers are cautioned as follows: By signing the subcontract or entering into a material supply agreement, the subcontractor or material supplier will be deemed to have signed and agreed to the provisions of the “Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities” in the subcontract or material supply agreement. This certification provides that the subcontractor or material supplier does not maintain or provide for his employees facilities which are segregated on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin, whether such facilities are segregated by directive or on a de facto basis. The certification also provides that the subcontractor or material supplier will not maintain such segregated facilities.
(c) Subcontractors or material suppliers receiving subcontract awards or material supply agreements exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause will be required to provide for the forwarding of this notice to prospective subcontractors for construction contracts and material suppliers where the subcontracts or material supply agreements exceed $10,000 and are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause.
II.
Implementation of Clean Air Act.
(a) By signing this bid, the bidder will be deemed to have stipulated as follows:
(1) That any facility to be utilized in the performance of this contract, unless such contract is exempt under the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1857
et seq.,
as by Pub. L. 91-604), Executive order 11738, and regulations in implementation thereof (40 CFR part 15, is not listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) List of Violating Facilities pursuant to 40 CFR 15.20.
(2) That the State highway department shall be promptly notified prior to contract award of the receipt by the bidder of any communication from the Director, Office of Federal Activities, EPA, indicating that a facility to be utilized for the contract is under consideration to be listed on the EPA List of Violating Facilities.
Pt. 635

# PART 635—CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE

# Subpart A—Contract Procedures
Sec.
635.101
Purpose.
635.102
Definitions.
635.103
Applicability.
635.104
Method of construction.
635.105
Supervising agency.
635.106
Use of publicly owned equipment.
635.107
Participation by disadvantaged business enterprises.
635.108
Health and safety.
635.109
Standardized changed condition clauses.
635.110
Licensing and qualification of contractors.
635.111
Tied bids.
635.112
Advertising for bids and proposals.
635.113
Bid opening and bid tabulations.
635.114
Award of contract and concurrence in award.
635.115
Agreement estimate.
635.116
Subcontracting and contractor responsibilities.
635.117
Labor and employment.
635.118
Payroll and weekly statements.
635.119
False statements.
635.120
Changes and extra work.
635.121
Contract time and contract time extensions.
635.122
Participation in progress payments.
635.123
Determination and documentation of pay quantities.
635.124
Participation in contract claim awards and settlements.
635.125
Termination of contract.
635.126
[Reserved]
635.127
Agreement provisions regarding overruns in contract time.

# Subpart B—Force Account Construction
635.201
Purpose.
635.202
Applicability.
635.203
Definitions.
635.204
Determination of more cost effective method or an emergency.
635.205
Finding of cost effectiveness.

# Subpart C—Physical Construction Authorization
635.301
Purpose.
635.303
Applicability.
635.305
Physical construction.
635.307
Coordination.
635.309
Authorization.

# Subpart D—General Material Requirements
635.401
Purpose.
635.403
Definitions.
635.405
Applicability.
635.407
Use of materials made available by a public agency.
635.409
Restrictions upon materials.
635.410
Buy America requirements.
635.411
Culvert and storm sewer material types.
635.413
Guaranty and warranty clauses.
635.417
Convict produced materials.

# Subpart E—Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) Contracting
635.501
Purpose.
635.502
Definitions.
635.503
Applicability.
635.504
CM/GC requirements.
635.505
Relationship to the NEPA process.
635.506
Project approvals and authorizations.
635.507
Cost eligibility.

# Subpart F—Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) Contracting
635.601
Purpose.
635.602
Definitions.
635.603
Applicability.
635.604
ID/IQ Requirements.
635.605
Approvals and authorizations.
635.606
ID/IQ procedures.

# Authority:
Sections 1525 and 1303 of Pub. L. 112-141, Sec. 1503 of Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144; 23 U.S.C. 101 (note), 109, 112, 113, 114, 116, 119, 128, and 315; 31 U.S.C. 6505; 42 U.S.C. 3334, 4601
et seq.;
Sec. 1041(a), Pub. L. 102-240, 105 Stat. 1914; 23 CFR 1.32; 49 CFR 1.85(a)(1).

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 635 appear at 67 FR 75924, Dec. 10, 2002.

# Subpart A—Contract Procedures

# Source:
56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 635.101
Purpose.
To prescribe policies, requirements, and procedures relating to Federal-aid highway projects, from the time of authorization to proceed to the construction stage, to the time of final acceptance by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).
§ 635.102
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrator
means the Federal Highway Administrator.
Calendar day
means each day shown on the calendar but, if another definition is set forth in the State contract specifications, that definition will apply.
Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) project
means a project to be delivered using a two-phase contract with a construction manager or general contractor for services during both the preconstruction and construction phases of a project.
Contract time
means the number of workdays or calendar days specified in a contract for completion of the contract work. The term includes authorized time extensions.
Design-build project
means a project to be developed using one or more design-build contracts.
Division Administrator
means the chief FHWA official assigned to conduct business in a particular State. A State is as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.
Force account
means a basis of payment for the direct performance of highway construction work with payment based on the actual cost of labor, equipment, and materials furnished and consideration for overhead and profit.
Formal approval
means approval in writing or the electronic transmission of such approval.
Incentive/disincentive for early completion
as used in this subpart, describes a contract provision which compensates the contractor a certain amount of money for each day identified critical work is completed ahead of schedule and assesses a deduction for each day the contractor overruns the incentive/disincentive time. Its use is primarily intended for those critical projects where traffic inconvenience and delays are to be held to a minimum. The amounts are based upon estimates of such items as traffic safety, traffic maintenance, and road user delay costs.
Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) Project
means a project to be developed using one or more ID/IQ contracts.
Liquidated damages
means the daily amount set forth in the contract to be deducted from the contract price to cover additional costs incurred by a State transportation department because of the contractor's failure to complete the contract work within the number of calendar days or workdays specified. The term may also mean the total of all daily amounts deducted under the terms of a particular contract.
Local public agency
means any city, county, township, municipality, or other political subdivision that may be empowered to cooperate with the State transportation department in highway matters.
Major change or major extra work
means a change which will significantly affect the cost of the project to the Federal Government or alter the termini, character or scope of the work.
Materially unbalanced bid
means a bid which generates a reasonable doubt that award to the bidder submitting a mathematically unbalanced bid will result in the lowest ultimate cost to the Federal Government.
Mathematically unbalanced bid
means a bid containing lump sum or unit bid items which do not reflect reasonable actual costs plus a reasonable proportionate share of the bidder's anticipated profit, overhead costs, and other indirect costs.
Public agency
means any organization with administrative or functional responsibilities which are directly or indirectly affiliated with a governmental body of any nation, State, or local jurisdiction.
Publicly owned equipment
means equipment previously purchased or otherwise acquired by the public agency involved primarily for use in its own operations.
Specialty items
means work items identified in the contract which are not normally associated with highway construction and require highly specialized knowledge, abilities or equipment not ordinarily available in the type of contracting organizations qualified and expected to bid on the contract; in general, these items are to be limited to minor components of the overall contract.
State department of transportation (State DOT)
means that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction. The term “State” should be considered equivalent to State DOT if the context so implies. In addition, State Highway Agency (SHA), State Transportation Agency (STA), State Transportation Department, or other similar terms should be considered equivalent to State DOT if the context so implies.
Workday
means a calendar day during which construction operations could proceed for a major part of a shift, normally excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and State-recognized legal holidays.
[62 FR 6873, Feb. 14, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 75924, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86942, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.103
Applicability.
The policies, requirements, and procedures prescribed in this subpart shall apply to all Federal-aid highway projects.
[69 FR 7118, Feb. 13, 2004]
§ 635.104
Method of construction.
(a) Actual construction work shall be performed by contract awarded by competitive bidding; unless, as provided in § 635.104(b), the State DOT demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Division Administrator that some other method is more cost effective or that an emergency exists. The State DOT shall assure opportunity for free, open, and competitive bidding, including adequate publicity of the advertisements or calls for bids. The advertising or calling for bids and the award of contracts shall comply with the procedures and requirements set forth in §§ 635.112 and 635.114.
(b) Approval by the Division Administrator for construction by a method other than competitive bidding shall be requested by the State in accordance with subpart B of part 635 of this chapter. Before such finding is made, the State DOT shall determine that the organization to undertake the work is so
staffed and equipped as to perform such work satisfactorily and cost effectively.
(c) In the case of a design-build project, the requirements of 23 CFR part 636 and the appropriate provisions pertaining to design-build contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the design-build delivery method.
(d) In the case of a CM/GC project, the requirements of subpart E and the appropriate provisions pertaining to the CM/GC method of contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the CM/GC delivery method.
(e) In the case of an ID/IQ project, the requirements of subpart F of this part and the appropriate provisions pertaining to the ID/IQ method of contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the ID/IQ delivery method.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86942, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.105
Supervising agency.
(a) The State DOT has responsibility for the construction of all Federal-aid projects, and is not relieved of such responsibility by authorizing performance of the work by a local public agency or other Federal agency. The State DOT shall be responsible for insuring that such projects receive adequate supervision and inspection to insure that projects are completed in conformance with approved plans and specifications.
(b) Although the State DOT may employ a consultant to provide construction engineering services, such as inspection or survey work on a project, the State DOT shall provide a full-time employed State engineer to be in responsible charge of the project.
(c) When a project is located on a street or highway over which the State DOT does not have legal jurisdiction, or when special conditions warrant, the State DOT, while not relieved of overall project responsibility, may arrange for the local public agency having jurisdiction over such street or highway to perform the work with its own forces or by contract; provided the following conditions are met and the Division Administrator approves the arrangements in advance.
(1) In the case of force account work, there is full compliance with subpart B of this part.
(2) When the work is to be performed under a contract awarded by a local public agency, all Federal requirements including those prescribed in this subpart shall be met.
(3) The local public agency is adequately staffed and suitably equipped to undertake and satisfactorily complete the work; and
(4) In those instances where a local public agency elects to use consultants for construction engineering services, the local public agency shall provide a full-time employee of the agency to be in responsible charge of the project.
§ 635.106
Use of publicly owned equipment.
(a) Publicly owned equipment should not normally compete with privately owned equipment on a project to be let to contract. There may be exceptional cases, however, in which the use of equipment of the State or local public agency for highway construction purposes may be warranted or justified. A proposal by any State DOT for the use of publicly owned equipment on such a project must be supported by a showing that it would clearly be cost effective to do so under the conditions peculiar to the individual project or locality.
(b) Where publicly owned equipment is to be made available in connection with construction work to be let to contract, Federal funds may participate in the cost of such work provided the following conditions are met:
(1) The proposed use of such equipment is clearly set forth in the Plans, Specifications and Estimate (PS
E) submitted to the Division Administrator for approval.
(2) The advertised specifications specify the items of publicly owned equipment available for use by the successful bidder, the rates to be charged, and the points of availability or delivery of the equipment; and
(3) The advertised specifications include a notification that the successful
bidder has the option either of renting part or all of such equipment from the State or local public agency or otherwise providing the equipment necessary for the performance of the contract work.
(c) In the rental of publicly owned equipment to contractors, the State or local public agency shall not profit at the expense of Federal funds.
(d) Unforeseeable conditions may make it necessary to provide publicly owned equipment to the contractor at rental rates agreed to between the contractor and the State or local public agency after the work has started. Any such arrangement shall not form the basis for any increase in the cost of the project on which Federal funds are to participate.
(e) When publicly owned equipment is used on projects constructed on a force account basis, costs may be determined by agreed unit prices or on an actual cost basis. When agreed unit prices are applied the equipment need not be itemized nor rental rates shown in the estimate. However, if such work is to be performed on an actual cost basis, the State DOT shall submit to the Division Administrator for approval the scheduie of rates proposed to be charged, exclusive of profit, for the publicly owned equipment made available for use.
§ 635.107
Participation by disadvantaged business enterprises.
(a) The State DOT shall schedule contract lettings in a balanced program providing contracts of such size and character as to assure an opportunity for all sizes of contracting organizations to compete. In accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, subsequent Federal-aid Highway Acts, and 49 CFR part 26, the State DOT shall ensure equal opportunity for disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs) participating in the Federal-aid highway program.
(b) In the case of a design-build, a CM/GC, or an ID/IQ project funded with title 23 funds, the requirements of 49 CFR part 26 and the State's approved DBE plan apply.
[67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 86942, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.108
Health and safety.
Contracts for projects shall include provisions designed:
(a) To insure full compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws governing safety, health and sanitation; and
(b) To require that the contractor shall provide all safeguards, safety devices, and protective equipment and shall take any other actions reasonably necessary to protect the life and health of persons working at the site of the project and the safety of the public and to protect property in connection with the performance of the work covered by the contract.
§ 635.109
Standardized changed condition clauses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following changed conditions contract clauses shall be made part of, and incorporated in, each highway construction project, including construction services contracts of CM/GC projects, approved under 23 U.S.C. 106:
(1)
Differing site conditions.
(i) During the progress of the work, if subsurface or latent physical conditions are encountered at the site differing materially from those indicated in the contract or if unknown physical conditions of an unusual nature, differing materially from those ordinarily encountered and generally recognized as inherent in the work provided for in the contract, are encountered at the site, the party discovering such conditions shall promptly notify the other party in writing of the specific differing conditions before the site is disturbed and before the affected work is performed.
(ii) Upon written notification, the engineer will investigate the conditions, and if it is determined that the conditions materially differ and cause an increase or decrease in the cost or time required for the performance of any work under the contract, an adjustment, excluding anticipated profits, will be made and the contract modified in writing accordingly. The engineer will notify the contractor of the determination whether or not an adjustment of the contract is warranted.
(iii) No contract adjustment which results in a benefit to the contractor will be allowed unless the contractor has provided the required written notice.
(iv) No contract adjustment will be allowed under this clause for any effects caused on unchanged work. (This provision may be omitted by the State DOT's at their option.)
(2)
Suspensions of work ordered by the engineer.
(i) If the performance of all or any portion of the work is suspended or delayed by the engineer in writing for an unreasonable period of time (not originally anticipated, customary, or inherent to the construction industry) and the contractor believes that additional compensation and/or contract time is due as a result of such suspension or delay, the contractor shall submit to the engineer in writing a request for adjustment within 7 calendar days of receipt of the notice to resume work. The request shall set forth the reasons and support for such adjustment.
(ii) Upon receipt, the engineer will evaluate the contractor's request. If the engineer agrees that the cost and/or time required for the performance of the contract has increased as a result of such suspension and the suspension was caused by conditions beyond the control of and not the fault of the contractor, its suppliers, or subcontractors at any approved tier, and not caused by weather, the engineer will make an adjustment (excluding profit) and modify the contract in writing accordingly. The contractor will be notified of the engineer's determination whether or not an adjustment of the contract is warranted.
(iii) No contract adjustment will be allowed unless the contractor has submitted the request for adjustment within the time prescribed.
(iv) No contract adjustment will be allowed under this clause to the extent that performance would have been suspended or delayed by any other cause, or for which an adjustment is provided or excluded under any other term or condition of this contract.
(3)
Significant changes in the character of work.
(i) The engineer reserves the right to make, in writing, at any time during the work, such changes in quantities and such alterations in the work as are necessary to satisfactorily complete the project. Such changes in quantities and alterations shall not invalidate the contract nor release the surety, and the contractor agrees to perform the work as altered.
(ii) If the alterations or changes in quantities significantly change the character of the work under the contract, whether such alterations or changes are in themselves significant changes to the character of the work or by affecting other work cause such other work to become significantly different in character, an adjustment, excluding anticipated profit, will be made to the contract. The basis for the adjustment shall be agreed upon prior to the performance of the work. If a basis cannot be agreed upon, then an adjustment will be made either for or against the contractor in such amount as the engineer may determine to be fair and equitable.
(iii) If the alterations or changes in quantities do not significantly change the character of the work to be performed under the contract, the altered work will be paid for as provided elsewhere in the contract.
(iv) The term “significant change” shall be construed to apply only to the following circumstances:
(A) When the character of the work as altered differs materially in kind or nature from that involved or included in the original proposed construction; or
(B) When a major item of work, as defined elsewhere in the contract, is increased in excess of 125 percent or decreased below 75 percent of the original contract quantity. Any allowance for an increase in quantity shall apply only to that portion in excess of 125 percent of original contract item quantity, or in case of a decrease below 75 percent, to the actual amount of work performed.
(b) The provisions of this section shall be governed by the following:
(1) Where State statute does not permit one or more of the contract clauses included in paragraph (a) of this section, the State statute shall prevail and such clause or clauses need not be made applicable to Federal-aid highway contracts.
(2) Where the State transportation department has developed and implemented one or more of the contract clauses included in paragraph (a) of this section, such clause or clauses, as developed by the State transportation department may be included in Federal-aid highway contracts in lieu of the corresponding clause or clauses in paragraph (a) of this section. The State's action must be pursuant to a specific State statute requiring differing contract conditions clauses. Such State developed clause or clauses, however, must be in conformance with 23 U.S.C., 23 CFR and other applicable Federal statutes and regulations as appropriate and shall be subject to the Division Administrator's approval as part of the PS
E.
(c) In the case of a design-build project, State DOTs are strongly encouraged to use “suspensions of work ordered by the engineer” clauses, and may consider “differing site condition” clauses and “significant changes in the character of work” clauses which are appropriate for the risk and responsibilities that are shared with the design-builder.
(d) For ID/IQ projects, State DOTs are strongly encouraged to use “suspensions of work ordered by the engineer” clauses, and may consider “differing site condition” clauses and “significant changes in the character of work” clauses, as appropriate.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991; 57 FR 10062, Mar. 23, 1992, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.110
Licensing and qualification of contractors.
(a) The procedures and requirements a State DOT proposes to use for qualifying and licensing contractors, who may bid for, be awarded, or perform Federal-aid highway contracts, shall be submitted to the Division Administrator for advance approval. Only those procedures and requirements so approved shall be effective with respect to Federal-aid highway projects. Any changes in approved procedures and requirements shall likewise be subject to approval by the Division Administrator.
(b) No procedure or requirement for bonding, insurance, prequalification, qualification, or licensing of contractors shall be approved which, in the judgment of the Division Administrator, may operate to restrict competition, to prevent submission of a bid by, or to prohibit the consideration of a bid submitted by, any responsible contractor, whether resident or nonresident of the State wherein the work is to be performed.
(c) No contractor shall be required by law, regulation, or practice to obtain a license before submission of a bid or before the bid may be considered for award of a contract. This, however, is not intended to preclude requirements for the licensing of a contractor upon or subsequent to the award of the contract if such requirements are consistent with competitive bidding. Prequalification of contractors may be required as a condition for submission of a bid or award of contract only if the period between the date of issuing a call for bids and the date of opening of bids affords sufficient time to enable a bidder to obtain the required prequalification rating.
(d) Requirements for the prequalification, qualification or licensing of contractors, that operate to govern the amount of work that may be bid upon by, or may be awarded to, a contractor, shall be approved only if based upon a full and appropriate evaluation of the contractor's capability to perform the work.
(e) Contractors who are currently suspended, debarred or voluntarily excluded under 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200, or otherwise determined to be ineligible, shall be prohibited from participating in the Federal-aid highway program.
(f) In the case of design-build, CM/GC, and ID/IQ projects, the State DOTs may use their own bonding, insurance, licensing, qualification or prequalification procedure for any phase of procurement.
(1) The State DOTs may not impose statutory or administrative requirements which provide an in-State or local geographical preference in the solicitation, licensing, qualification, pre-qualification, short listing or selection process. The geographic location of a
firm's office may not be one of the selection criteria. However, the State DOTs may require the successful design-builder to establish a local office after the award of contract.
(2) If required by State statute, local statute, or administrative policy, the State DOTs may require prequalification for construction contractors. The State DOTs may require offerors to demonstrate the ability of their engineering staff to become licensed in that State as a condition of responsiveness; however, licensing procedures may not serve as a barrier for the consideration of otherwise responsive proposals. The State DOTs may require compliance with appropriate State or local licensing practices as a condition of contract award.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.111
Tied bids.
(a) The State DOT may tie or permit the tying of Federal-aid highway projects or Federal-aid and State-financed highway projects for bidding purposes where it appears that by so doing more favorable bids may be received. To avoid discrimination against contractors desiring to bid upon a lesser amount of work than that included in the tied combinations, provisions should be made to permit bidding separately on the individual projects whenever they are of such character as to be suitable for bidding independently.
(b) When Federal-aid and State-financed highway projects are tied or permitted to be tied together for bidding purposes, the bid schedule shall set forth the quantities separately for the Federal-aid work and the State-financed work. All proposals submitted for the tied projects must contain separate bid prices for each project individually. Federal participation in the cost of the work shall be on the basis of the lowest overall responsive bid proposal unless the analysis of bids reveals that mathematical unbalancing has caused an unsupported shift of cost liability to the Federal-aid work. If such a finding is made, Federal participation shall be based on the unit prices represented in the proposal by the individual contractor who would be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder if only the Federal-aid project were considered.
(c) Federal-aid highway projects and State-financed highway projects may be combined in one contract if the conditions of the projects are so similar that the unit costs on the Federal-aid projects should not be increased by such combinations of projects. In such cases, like quantities should be combined in the proposal to avoid the possibility of unbalancing of bids in favor of either of the projects in the combination.
§ 635.112
Advertising for bids and proposals.
(a) No work shall be undertaken on any Federal-aid project, nor shall any project be advertised for bids, prior to authorization by the Division Administrator.
(b) The advertisement and approved plans and specifications shall be available to bidders a minimum of 3 weeks prior to opening of bids except that shorter periods may be approved by the Division Administrator in special cases when justified.
(c) The State DOT shall obtain the approval of the Division Administrator prior to issuing any addenda which contain a major change to the approved plans or specifications during the advertising period. Minor addenda need not receive prior approval but should be identified by the State DOT at the time of or prior to requesting FHWA concurrence in award. The State DOT shall provide assurance that all bidders have received all issued addenda.
(d) Nondiscriminatory bidding procedures shall be afforded to all qualified bidders regardless of National, State or local boundaries and without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap. If any provisions of State laws, specifications, regulations, or policies may operate in any manner contrary to Federal requirements, including title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, to prevent submission of a bid, or prohibit consideration of a bid submitted by any responsible bidder appropriately qualified in accordance with § 635.110, such provisions shall not be applicable to Federal-aid
projects. Where such nonapplicable provisions exist, notices of advertising, specifications, special provisions or other governing documents shall include a positive statement to advise prospective bidders of those provisions that are not applicable.
(e) Except in the case of a concession agreement, as defined in section 710.703 of this title, no public agency shall be permitted to bid in competition or to enter into subcontracts with private contractors.
(f) The State DOT shall include a noncollusion provision substantially as follows in the bidding documents:
Each bidder shall file a statement executed by, or on behalf of the person, firm, association, or corporation submitting the bid certifying that such person, firm, association, or corporation has not, either directly or indirectly, entered into any agreement, participated in any collusion, or otherwise taken any action, in restraint of free competitive bidding in connection with the submitted bid. Failure to submit the executed statement as part of the bidding documents will make the bid nonresponsive and not eligible for award consideration.
(1) The required form for the statement will be provided by the State to each prospective bidder.
(2) The statement shall either be in the form of an affidavit executed and sworn to by the bidder before a person who is authorized by the laws of the State to administer oaths or in the form of an unsworn declaration executed under penalty of perjury of the laws of the United States.
(g) The State DOT shall include the lobbying certification requirement pursuant to 49 CFR part 20 and the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200 regarding suspension and debarment certification in the bidding documents.
(h) The State DOT shall clearly identify in the bidding documents those requirements which the bidder must assure are complied with to make the bid responsive. Failure to comply with these identified bidding requirements shall make the bid nonresponsive and not eligible for award consideration.
(i) In the case of a design-build project, the following requirements apply:
(1) When a Request for Proposals document is issued after the NEPA process is complete, the FHWA Division Administrator's approval of the Request for Proposals document will constitute the FHWA's project authorization and the FHWA's approval of the State DOT's request to release the document. This approval will carry the same significance as plan, specification and estimate approval on a design-bid-build Federal-aid project.
(2) Where a Request for Proposals document is issued prior to the completion of the NEPA process, the FHWA's approval of the document will only constitute the FHWA's approval of the State DOT's request to release the document.
(3) The State DOT may decide the appropriate solicitation schedule for all design-build requests. This includes all project advertising, the release of the Request for Qualifications document, the release of the Request for Proposals document and all deadlines for the receipt of qualification statements and proposals. Typical advertising periods range from six to ten weeks and can be longer for large, complicated projects.
(4) The State DOT must obtain the approval of the Division Administrator prior to issuing addenda which result in major changes to the Request for Proposals document. Minor addenda need not receive prior approval but may be identified by the State DOT at the time of or prior to requesting the FHWA's concurrence in award. The State DOT must provide assurance that all offerors have received all issued addenda.
(j) In the case of a CM/GC project, the FHWA Division Administrator's approval of the solicitation document will constitute the FHWA's approval to use the CM/GC contracting method and approval to release the solicitation document. The State DOT must obtain the approval of the FHWA Division Administrator before issuing addenda which result in major changes to the solicitation document.
(k) In the case of an ID/IQ project, the FHWA Division Administrator's approval of the solicitation document will constitute FHWA's approval to use the ID/IQ contracting method and approval to release the solicitation document. The State DOT must obtain the
approval of the FHWA Division Administrator before issuing addenda which result in major changes to the solicitation document.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 72 FR 45336, Aug. 14, 2007; 73 FR 77502, Dec. 19, 2008; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72932, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.113
Bid opening and bid tabulations.
(a) All bids received in accordance with the terms of the advertisement shall be publicly opened and announced either item by item or by total amount. If any bid received is not read aloud, the name of the bidder and the reason for not reading the bid aloud shall be publicly announced at the letting. Negotiation with contractors, during the period following the opening of bids and before the award of the contract shall not be permitted.
(b) The State DOT shall prepare and forward tabulations of bids to the Division Administrator. These tabulations shall be certified by a responsible State DOT official and shall show:
(1) Bid item details for at least the low three acceptable bids and
(2) The total amounts of all other acceptable bids.
(c) In the case of a design-build project, the following requirements apply:
(1) All proposals received must be opened and reviewed in accordance with the terms of the solicitation. The State DOT must use its own procedures for the following:
(i) The process of handling proposals and information;
(ii) The review and evaluation of proposals;
(iii) The submission, modification, revision and withdrawal of proposals; and
(iv) The announcement of the successful offeror.
(2) The State DOT must submit a post-award tabulation of proposal prices to the FHWA Division Administrator. The tabulation of price proposal information may include detailed pricing information when available or lump sum price information if itemized prices are not used.
(d) In the case of a CM/GC project, the requirements of this section do not apply. See subpart E of this part for approval procedures.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016]
§ 635.114
Award of contract and concurrence in award.
(a) Federal-aid contracts shall be awarded only on the basis of the lowest responsive bid submitted by a bidder meeting the criteria of responsibility as may have been established by the State DOT in accordance with § 635.110. Award shall be within the time established by the State DOT and subject to the prior concurrence of the Division Administrator.
(b) The State DOT shall formally request concurrence by the Division Administrator in the award of all Federal-aid contracts. Concurrence in award by the Division Administrator is a prerequisite to Federal participation in construction costs and is considered as authority to proceed with construction, unless specifically stated otherwise. Concurrence in award shall be formally approved and shall only be given after receipt and review of the tabulation of bids.
(c) Following the opening of bids, the State DOT shall examine the unit bid prices of the apparent low bid for reasonable conformance with the engineer's estimated prices. A bid with extreme variations from the engineer's estimate, or where obvious unbalancing of unit prices has occurred, shall be thoroughly evaluated.
(d) Where obvious unbalanced bid items exist, the State DOT's decision to award or reject a bid shall be supported by written justification. A bid found to be mathematically unbalanced, but not found to be materially unbalanced, may be awarded.
(e) When a low bid is determined to be both mathematically and materially unbalanced, the Division Administrator will take appropriate steps to protect the Federal interest. This action may be concurrence in a State DOT decision not to award the contract. If, however, the State DOT decides to proceed with the award and requests FHWA concurrence, the Division Administrator's action may range from nonconcurrence to concurrence
with contingency conditions limiting Federal participation.
(f) If the State DOT determines that the lowest bid is not responsive or the bidder is not responsible, it shall so notify and obtain the Division Administrator's concurrence before making an award to the next lowest bidder.
(g) If the State DOT rejects or declines to read or consider a low bid on the grounds that it is not responsive because of noncompliance with a requirement which was not clearly identified in the bidding documents, it shall submit justification for its action. If such justification is not considered by the Division Administrator to be sufficient, concurrence will not be given to award to another bidder on the contract at the same letting.
(h) Any proposal by the State DOT to reject all bids received for a Federal-aid contract shall be submitted to the Division Administrator for concurrence, accompanied by adequate justification.
(i) In the event the low bidder selected by the State DOT for contract award forfeits the bid guarantee, the State DOT may dispose of the amounts of such forfeited guarantees in accordance with its normal practices.
(j) A copy of the executed contract between the State DOT and the construction contractor should be furnished to the Division Administrator as soon as practicable after execution.
(k) In the case of a design-build project, the following requirements apply: Design-build contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the Request for Proposals document.
See
23 CFR Part 636, Design-build Contracting, for details.
(l) In the case of a CM/GC project, the CM/GC contract shall be awarded in accordance with the solicitation document. See subpart E for CM/GC project approval procedures.
(m) In the case of an ID/IQ project, the ID/IQ contract shall be awarded in accordance with the solicitation document. See subpart F of this part for ID/IQ project approval procedures.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.115
Agreement estimate.
(a) Following the award of contract, an agreement estimate based on the contract unit prices and estimated quantities shall be prepared by the State DOT and submitted to the Division Administrator as soon as practicable for use in the preparation of the project agreement. The agreement estimate shall also include the actual or best estimated costs of any other items to be included in the project agreement.
(b) An agreement estimate shall be submitted by the State DOT for each force account project (see 23 CFR part 635, subpart B) when the plans and specifications are submitted to the Division Administrator for approval. It shall normally be based on the estimated quantities and the unit prices agreed upon in advance between the State DOT and the Division Administrator, whether the work is to be done by the State DOT or by a local public agency. Such agreed unit prices shall constitute a commitment as the basis for Federal participation in the cost of the project. The unit prices shall be based upon the estimated actual cost of performing the work but shall in no case exceed unit prices currently being obtained by competitive bidding on comparable highway construction work in the same general locality. In special cases involving unusual circumstances, the estimate may be based upon the estimated costs for labor, materials, equipment rentals, and supervision to complete the work rather than upon agreed unit prices. This paragraph shall not be applicable to agreement estimates for railroad and utility force account work.
§ 635.116
Subcontracting and contractor responsibilities.
(a) Contracts for projects shall specify the minimum percentage of work that a contractor must perform with its own organization. This percentage shall be not less than 30 percent of the total original contract price excluding any identified specialty items. Specialty items may be performed by subcontract and the amount of any such specialty items so performed may be deducted from the total original contract before computing the amount of
work required to be performed by the contractor's own organization. The contract amount upon which the above requirement is computed includes the cost of materials and manufactured products which are to be purchased or produced by the contractor under the contract provisions.
(b) The State DOT shall not permit any of the contract work to be performed under a subcontract, unless such arrangement has been authorized by the State DOT in writing. Prior to authorizing a subcontract, the State DOT shall assure that each subcontract is evidenced in writing and that it contains all pertinent provisions and requirements of the prime contract. The Division Administrator may permit the State DOT to satisfy the subcontract assurance requirements by concurrence in a State DOT process which requires the contractor to certify that each subcontract arrangement will be in the form of a written agreement containing all the requirements and pertinent provisions of the prime contract. Prior to the Division Administrator's concurrence, the State DOT must demonstrate that it has an acceptable plan for monitoring such certifications.
(c) To assure that all work (including subcontract work) is performed in accordance with the contract requirements, the contractor shall be required to furnish:
(1) A competent superintendent or supervisor who is employed by the firm, has full authority to direct performance of the work in accordance with the contract requirements, and is in charge of all construction operations (regardless of who performs the work), and;
(2) Such other of its own organizational resources (supervision, management, and engineering services) as the State DOT contracting officer determines are necessary to assure the performance of the contract.
(d) In the case of a design-build project, the following requirements apply:
(1) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are not applicable to design-build contracts;
(2) At their discretion, the State DOT's may establish a minimum percentage of work that must be done by the design-builder. For the purpose of this section, the term design-builder may include any firms that are equity participants in the design-builder, their sister and parent companies, and their wholly owned subsidiaries;
(3) No procedure, requirement or preference shall be imposed which prescribes minimum subcontracting requirements or goals (other than those necessary to meet the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program requirements of 49 CFR part 26).
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002]
§ 635.117
Labor and employment.
(a) No construction work shall be performed by convict labor at the work site or within the limits of any Federal-aid highway construction project from the time of award of the contract or the start of work on force account until final acceptance of the work by the State DOT unless it is labor performed by convicts who are on parole, supervised release, or probation.
(b) No procedures or requirement shall be imposed by any State which will operate to discriminate against the employment of labor from any other State, possession or territory of the United States, in the construction of a Federal-aid project.
(c) The selection of labor to be employed by the contractor on any Federal-aid project shall be by the contractor without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap and in accordance with 23 CFR part 230, 41 CFR part 60 and Exec. Order No. 11246 (Sept. 24, 1965), 3 CFR 339 (1964-1965), as amended.
(d) Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 140(d), it is permissible for State DOT's to implement procedures or requirements which will extend preferential employment to Indians living on or near a reservation on eligible projects as defined in paragraph (e) of this section. Indian preference shall be applied without regard to tribal affiliation or place of enrollment. In no instance should a contractor be compelled to layoff or terminate a permanent core-crew employee to meet a preference goal.
(e) Projects eligible for Indian employment preference consideration are
projects located on roads within or providing access to an Indian reservation or other Indian lands as defined under the term “Indian Reservation Roads” in 23 U.S.C. 101 and regulations issued thereunder. The terminus of a road “providing access to” is that point at which it intersects with a road functionally classified as a collector or higher classification (outside the reservation boundary) in both urban and rural areas. In the case of an Interstate highway, the terminus is the first interchange outside the reservation.
(f) The advertisement or call for bids on any contract for the construction of a project located on the Federal-aid system either shall include the minimum wage rates determined by the Secretary of Labor to be prevailing on the same type of work on similar construction in the immediate locality or shall provide that such rates are set out in the bidding documents and shall further specify that such rates are a part of the contract covering the project.
§ 635.118
Payroll and weekly statements.
For all projects, copies of payrolls and statements of wages paid, filed with the State as set forth in the required contract provisions for the project, are to be retained by the State DOT for the time period pursuant to 2 CFR 200.333 for review as needed by the Federal Highway Administration, the Department of Labor, the General Accounting Office, or other agencies.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 85 FR 7293, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.119
False statements.
The following notice shall be posted on each Federal-aid highway project in one or more places where it is readily available to and viewable by all personnel concerned with the project:

# Notice to All Personnel Engaged on Federal-Aid Highway Projects
United States Code, title 18, section 1020, reads as follows:
Whoever, being an officer, agent, or employee of the United States, or of any State or Territory, or whoever, whether a person, association, firm, or corporation, knowingly makes any false statement, false representation, or false report as to the character, quality, quantity, or cost of the material used or to be used, or the quantity or quality of the work performed or to be performed, or the costs thereof in connection with the submission of plans, maps, specifications, contracts, or costs of construction of any highway or related project submitted for approval to the Secretary of Transportation; or
Whoever, knowingly makes any false statement, false representation, false report, or false claim with respect to the character, quality, quantity, or cost of any work performed or to be performed, or materials furnished or to be furnished, in connection with the construction of any highway or related project approved by the Secretary of Transportation; or
Whoever, knowingly makes any false statement or false representation as to a material fact in any statement, certificate, or report submitted pursuant to the provisions of the Federal-aid Road Act approved July 11, 1916 (39 Stat. 355), as amended and supplemented,
Shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
§ 635.120
Changes and extra work.
(a) Following authorization to proceed with a project, all major changes in the plans and contract provisions and all major extra work shall have formal approval by the Division Administrator in advance of their effective dates. However, when emergency or unusual conditions justify, the Division Administrator may give tentative advance approval orally to such changes or extra work and ratify such approval with formal approval as soon thereafter as practicable.
(b) For non-major changes and non-major extra work, formal approval is necessary but such approval may be given retroactively at the discretion of the Division Administrator. The State DOT should establish and document with the Division Administrator's concurrence specific parameters as to what constitutes a non-major change and non-major extra work.
(c) Changes in contract time, as related to contract changes or extra work, should be submitted at the same time as the respective work change for approval by the Division Administrator.
(d) In establishing the method of payment for contract changes or extra work orders, force account procedures shall only be used when strictly necessary, such as when agreement cannot be reached with the contractor on the
price of a new work item, or when the extent of work is unknown or is of such character that a price cannot be determined to a reasonable degree of accuracy. The reason or reasons for using force account procedures shall be documented.
(e) The State DOT shall perform and adequately document a cost analysis of each negotiated contract change or negotiated extra work order. The method and degree of the cost analysis shall be subject to the approval of the Division Administrator.
(f) Proposed changes and extra work involved in nonparticipating operations that may affect the design or participating construction features of a project, shall be subject to review and concurrence by the Division Administrator.
§ 635.121
Contract time and contract time extensions.
(a) The State DOT should have adequate written procedures for the determination of contract time. These procedures should be submitted for approval to the Division Administrator within 6 months of the effective date of this Final Rule.
(b) Contract time extensions granted by a State DOT shall be subject to the concurrence of the Division Administrator and will be considered in determining the amount of Federal participation. Contract time extensions submitted for approval to the Division Administrator, shall be fully justified and adequately documented.
§ 635.122
Participation in progress payments.
(a) Federal funds will participate in the costs to the State DOT of construction accomplished as the work progresses, based on a request for reimbursement submitted by State transportation departments. When the contract provisions provide for payment for stockpiled materials, the amount of the reimbursement request upon which participation is based may include the appropriate value of approved specification materials delivered by the contractor at the project site or at another designated location in the vicinity of such construction, provided that:
(1) The material conforms with the requirements of the plans and specifications.
(2) The material is supported by a paid invoice or a receipt for delivery of materials. If supported by a receipt of delivery of materials, the contractor must furnish the paid invoice within a reasonable time after receiving payment from the State DOT; and
(3) The quantity of a stockpiled material eligible for Federal participation in any case shall not exceed the total estimated quantity required to complete the project. The value of the stockpiled material shall not exceed the appropriate portion of the value of the contract item or items in which such materials are to be incorporated.
(b) The materials may be stockpiled by the contractor at a location not in the vicinity of the project, if the State DOT determines that because of required fabrication at an off-site location, it is not feasible or practicable to stockpile the materials in the vicinity of the project.
(c) In the case of a design-build project, the State DOT must define its procedures for making progress payments on lump sum contracts in the Request for Proposal document.
(d) In the case of a CM/GC project, the State DOT must define its procedures for making construction phase progress payments in either the solicitation or the construction services contract documents.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 75925, Dec. 10, 2002; 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016]
§ 635.123
Determination and documentation of pay quantities.
(a) The State DOT shall have procedures in effect which will provide adequate assurance that the quantities of completed work are determined accurately and on a uniform basis throughout the State. All such determinations and all related source documents upon which payment is based shall be made a matter of record.
(b) Initial source documents pertaining to the determination of pay quantities are among those records and
documents which must be retained pursuant to 2 CFR 200.333.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 85 FR 7293, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 635.124
Participation in contract claim awards and settlements.
(a) The eligibility for and extent of Federal-aid participation up to the Federal statutory share in a contract claim award made by a State to a Federal-aid contractor on the basis of an arbitration or mediation proceeding, administrative board determination, court judgment, negotiated settlement, or other contract claim settlement shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. Federal funds will participate to the extent that any contract adjustments made are supported, and have a basis in terms of the contract and applicable State law, as fairly construed. Further, the basis for the adjustment and contractor compensation shall be in accord with prevailing principles of public contract law.
(b) The FHWA shall be made aware by the State DOT of the details of the claim at an early stage so that coordination of efforts can be satisfactorily accomplished. It is expected that State DOTs will diligently pursue the satisfactory resolution of claims within a reasonable period of time. Claims arising on exempt non-NHS projects should be processed in accordance with the State's approved Stewardship Plan.
(c) When requesting Federal participation, the State DOT shall set forth in writing the legal and contractual basis for the claim, together with the cost data and other facts supporting the award or settlement. Federal-aid participation in such instances shall be supported by a State DOT audit of the actual costs incurred by the contractor unless waived by the FHWA as unwarranted. Where difficult, complex, or novel legal issues appear in the claim, such that evaluation of legal controversies is critical to consideration of the award or settlement, the State DOT shall include in its submission a legal opinion from its counsel setting forth the basis for determining the extent of the liability under local law, with a level of detail commensurate with the magnitude and complexity of the issues involved.
(d) In those cases where the State DOT receives an adverse decision in an amount more than the State DOT was able to support prior to the decision or settles a claim in an amount more than the State DOT can support, the FHWA will participate up to the appropriate Federal matching share, to the extent that it involves a Federal-aid participating portion of the contract, provided that:
(1) The FHWA was consulted and concurred in the proposed course of action;
(2) All appropriate courses of action had been considered; and
(3) The State DOT pursued the case diligently and in a professional manner.
(e) Federal funds will not participate:
(1) If it has been determined that State DOT employees, officers, or agents acted with gross negligence, or participated in intentional acts or omissions, fraud, or other acts not consistent with usual State practices in project design, plan preparation, contract administration, or other activities which gave rise to the claim;
(2) In such cost items as consequential or punitive damages, anticipated profit, or any award or payment of attorney's fees paid by a State to an opposing party in litigation; and
(3) In tort, inverse condemnation, or other claims erroneously styled as claims “under a contract.”
(f) Payment of interest associated with a claim will be eligible for participation provided that the payment to the contractor for interest is allowable by State statute or specification and the costs are not a result of delays caused by dilatory action of the State or the contractor. The interest rates must not exceed the rate provided for by the State statute or specification.
(g) In cases where State DOT's affirmatively recover compensatory damages through contract claims, cross-claims, or counter claims from contractors, subcontractors, or their agents on projects on which there was Federal-aid participation, the Federal share of such recovery shall be equivalent to the Federal share of the project or projects involved. Such recovery shall be credited to the project or
projects from which the claim or claims arose.
[56 FR 37004, Aug. 2, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 6873, Feb. 14, 1997; 69 FR 7118, Feb. 13, 2004]
§ 635.125
Termination of contract.
(a) All contracts exceeding $10,000 shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the State, including the manner by which the termination will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions under which the contract may be terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.
(b) The State DOT prior to termination of a Federal-aid contract shall consult with and receive the concurrence of the Division Administrator. The extent of Federal-aid participation in contract termination costs, including final settlement, will depend upon the merits of the individual case. However, under no circumstances shall Federal funds participate in anticipated profit on work not performed.
(c) Except as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, normal Federal-aid plans, specifications, and estimates, advertising, and award procedures are to be followed when a State DOT awards the contract for completion of a terminated Federal-aid contract.
(d) When a State DOT awards the contract for completion of a Federal-aid contract previously terminated for default, the construction amount eligible for Federal participation on the project should not exceed whichever amount is the lesser, either:
(1) The amount representing the payments made under the original contract plus payments made under the new contract; or
(2) The amount representing what the cost would have been if the construction had been completed as contemplated by the plans and specifications under the original contract.
(e) If the surety awards a contract for completion of a defaulted Federal-aid contract or completes it by some other acceptable means, the FHWA will consider the terms of the original contract to be in effect and that the work will be completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications included therein. No further FHWA approval or concurrence action will therefore be needed in connection with any defaulted Federal-aid contract awarded by a surety. Under this procedure, the construction amount eligible for Federal participation on the project should not exceed the amount representing what the cost would have been if the construction had been completed as contemplated by the plans and specifications under the original contract.
§ 635.126
[Reserved]
§ 635.127
Agreement provisions regarding overruns in contract time.
(a) Each State transportation department (State DOT) shall establish specific liquidated damages rates applicable to projects in that State. The rates may be project-specific or may be in the form of a table or schedule developed for a range of project costs and/or project types. These rates shall, as a minimum, be established to cover the estimated average daily construction engineering (CE) costs associated with the type of work encountered on the project. The amounts shall be assessed by means of deductions, for each calendar day or workday overrun in contract time, from payments otherwise due to the contractor for performance in accordance with the contract terms.
(b) The rates established shall be subject to FHWA approval either on a project-by-project basis, in the case of project-specific rates, or on a periodic basis after initial approval where a rate table or schedule is used. In the latter case, the State DOT shall periodically review its cost data to ascertain if the rate table/schedule closely approximates, at a minimum, the actual average daily CE costs associated with the type and size of the projects in the State. Where rate schedules or other means are already included in the State DOT specifications or standard special provisions, verification by the State DOT that the amounts are adequate shall be submitted to the FHWA for review and approval. After initial approval by the FHWA of the
rates, the State DOT shall review the rates at least every 2 years and provide updated rates, when necessary, for FHWA approval. If updated rates are not warranted, justification of this fact is to be sent to the FHWA for review and acceptance.
(c) The State DOT may, with FHWA concurrence, include additional amounts as liquidated damages in each contract to cover other anticipated costs of project related delays or inconveniences to the State DOT or the public. Costs resulting from winter shutdowns, retaining detours for an extended time, additional demurrage, or similar costs as well as road user delay costs may be included.
(d) In addition to the liquidated damages provisions, the State DOT may also include incentive/disincentive for early completion provisions in the contract. The incentive/disincentive amounts shall be shown separately from the liquidated damages amounts.
(e) Where there has been an overrun in contract time, the following principles shall apply in determining the cost of a project that is eligible for Federal-aid reimbursement:
(1) A proportional share, as used in this section, is the ratio of the final contract construction costs eligible for Federal participation to the final total contract construction costs of the project.
(2) Where CE costs are claimed as a participating item based upon actual expenses incurred or where CE costs are not claimed as a participating item, and where the liquidated damages rates cover only CE expenses, the total CE costs for the project shall be reduced by the assessed liquidated damages amounts prior to figuring any Federal pro rata share payable. If the amount of liquidated damages assessed is more than the actual CE totals for the project, a proportional share of the excess shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost before determining the final Federal share.
(3) Where the State DOT is being reimbursed for CE costs on the basis of an approved percentage of the participating construction cost, the total contract construction amount that would be eligible for Federal participation shall be reduced by a proportional share of the total liquidated damages amounts assessed on the project.
(4) Where liquidated damages include extra anticipated non-CE costs due to contractor caused delays, the amount assessed shall be used to pay for the actual non-CE expenses incurred by the State DOT, and, if a Federal participating item(s) is involved, to reduce the Federal share payable for that item(s). If the amount assessed is more than the actual expenses incurred by the State DOT, a proportional share of the excess shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost of the project before the Federal share is figured.
(f) When provisions for incentive/disincentive for early completion are used in the contract, a proportion of the increased project costs due to any incentive payments to the contractor shall be added to the federally participating contract construction cost before calculating the Federal share. When the disincentive provision is applicable, a proportion of the amount assessed the contractor shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost before the Federal share calculation. Proportions are to be calculated in the same manner as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[52 FR 31390, Aug. 20, 1987. Redesignated at 62 FR 6872, Feb. 14, 1997]

# Subpart B—Force Account Construction
§ 635.201
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe procedures in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 112(b) for a State transportation department to request approval that highway construction work be performed by some method other than contract awarded by competitive bidding.
[48 FR 22912, May 23, 1983]
§ 635.202
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all Federal-aid and other highway construction projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds and to be constructed by a State transportation department or a subdivision thereof in
pursuant of agreements between any other State transportation department and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).
[69 FR 7119, Feb. 13, 2004]
§ 635.203
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply for the purpose of this subpart:
(a) A
State transportation department
is that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction. The term
State
should be considered equivalent to
State transportation department
if the context so implies.
(b) Except as provided for as emergency repair work in § 668.105(i) and in § 635.204(b), the term
some other method
of construction as used in 23 U.S.C. 112(b) shall mean the
force account
method of construction as defined herein. In the unlikely event that circumstances are considered to justify a negotiated contract or another unusual method of construction, the policies and procedures prescribed herein for force account work will apply.
(c) The term
force account
shall mean the direct performance of highway construction work by a State transportation department, a county, a railroad, or a public utility company by use of labor, equipment, materials, and supplies furnished by them and used under their direct control.
(d) The term
county
shall mean any county, township, municipality or other political subdivision that may be empowered to cooperate with the State transportation department in highway matters.
(e) The term
cost effective
shall mean the efficient use of labor, equipment, materials and supplies to assure the lowest overall cost.
(f) For the purpose of this part, an
emergency
shall be deemed to exist when emergency repair work as provided for in § 668.105(i) is necessary or when a major element or segment of the highway system has failed and the situation is such that competitive bidding is not possible or is impractical because immediate action is necessary to:
(1) Minimize the extent of the damage,
(2) Protect remaining facilities, or
(3) Restore essential travel.
This definition of
emergency
has no applicability to the Emergency Relief Program of 23 CFR part 668.
[39 FR 35158, Sept. 30, 1974, as amended at 48 FR 22912, May 23, 1983; 52 FR 45172, Nov. 25, 1987]
§ 635.204
Determination of more cost effective method or an emergency.
(a) Congress has expressly provided that the contract method based on competitive bidding shall be used by a State transportation department or county for performance of highway work financed with the aid of Federal funds unless the State transportation department demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that some other method is more cost effective or that an emergency exists.
(b) When a State transportation department determines it necessary due to an emergency to undertake a federally financed highway construction project by force account or negotiated contract method, it shall submit a request to the Division Administrator identifying and describing the project, the kinds of work to be performed, the method to be used, the estimated costs, the estimated Federal Funds to be provided, and the reason or reasons that an emergency exists.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, when a State transportation department desires that highway construction work financed with the aid of Federal funds, other than the kinds of work designated under § 635.205(b), be undertaken by force account, it shall submit a request to the Division Administrator identifying and describing the project and the kind of work to be performed, the estimated costs, the estimated Federal funds to be provided, and the reason or reasons that force account for such project is considered cost effective.
(d) The Division Administrator shall notify the State transportation department in writing of his/her determination.
[52 FR 45172, Nov. 25, 1987]
§ 635.205
Finding of cost effectiveness.
(a) It may be found cost effective for a State transportation department or county to undertake a federally financed highway construction project by force account when a situation exists in which the rights or resposibilities of the community at large are so affected as to require some special course of action, including situations where there is a lack of bids or the bids received are unreasonable.
(b) Pursuant to authority in 23 U.S.C. 112(b), it is hereby determined that by reason of the inherent nature of the operations involved, it is cost effective to perform by force account the adjustment of railroad or utility facilities and similar types of facilities owned or operated by a public agency, a railroad, or a utility company provided that the organization is qualified to perform the work in a satisfactory manner. The installation of new facilities shall be undertaken by competitive bidding except as provided in § 635.204(c). Adjustment of railroad facilities shall include minor work on the railroad's operating facilities routinely performed by the railroad with its own forces such as the installation of grade crossing warning devices, crossing surfaces, and minor track and signal work. Adjustment of utility facilities shall include minor work on the utility's existing facilities routinely performed by the utility with its own forces and includes minor installations of new facilities to provide power, minor lighting, telephone, water and similar utility service to a rest area, weigh-station, movable bridge, or other highway appurtenance, provided such installation cannot feasibly be done as incidental to a major installation project such as an extensive highway lighting system.
[52 FR 45173, Nov. 25, 1987]

# Subpart C—Physical Construction Authorization

# Source:
40 FR 17251, Apr. 18, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 635.301
Purpose.
To prescribe the policies and procedures under which a State transportation department may be authorized to advance a Federal-aid highway project to the physical construction stage.
§ 635.303
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart are applicable to all Federal-aid highway construction projects.
[69 FR 7119, Feb. 13, 2004]
§ 635.305
Physical construction.
For purposes of this subpart the physical construction of a project is considered to consist of the actual construction of the highway itself with its appurtenant facilities. It includes any removal, adjustment or demolition of buildings or major obstructions, and utility or railroad work that is a part of the contract for the physical construction.
§ 635.307
Coordination.
(a) The right-of-way clearance, utility, and railroad work are to be so coordinated with the physical construction that no unnecessary delay or cost for the physical construction will occur.
(b) All right-of-way clearance, utility, and railroad work performed separately from the contract for the physical construction of the project are to be accomplished in accordance with provisions of the following:
(1) 23 CFR part 140, subpart I;
(2) 23 CFR part 646, subpart B;
(3) 23 CFR 710.403; and
(4) 23 CFR part 645, subpart A.
[40 FR 17251, Apr. 18, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 25585, June 17, 1975; 64 FR 71289, Dec. 21, 1999]
§ 635.309
Authorization.
Authorization to advertise the physical construction for bids or to proceed with force account construction thereof shall normally be issued as soon as, but not until, all of the following conditions have been met:
(a) The plans, specifications, and estimates (PS
E) have been approved.
(b) A statement is received from the State, either separately or combined with the information required by paragraph (c) of this section, that either all right-of-way (ROW) clearance, utility, and railroad work has been completed
or that all necessary arrangements have been made for it to be undertaken and completed as required for proper coordination with the physical construction schedules. Where it is determined that the completion of such work in advance of the highway construction is not feasible or practical due to economy, special operational problems or the like, there shall be appropriate notification provided in the bid proposals identifying the ROW clearance, utility, and railroad work which is to be underway concurrently with the highway construction.
(c) Except as otherwise provided for design-build projects in § 710.309 of this chapter and paragraph (p) of this section, a statement is received from the State certifying that all individuals and families have been relocated to decent, safe, and sanitary housing or that the State has made available to relocatees adequate replacement housing in accordance with the provisions of the 49 CFR part 24 and that one of the following has application:
(1) All necessary ROW, including control of access rights when pertinent, have been acquired including legal and physical possession. Trial or appeal of cases may be pending in court but legal possession has been obtained. There may be some improvements remaining on the ROW but all occupants have vacated the lands and improvements and the State has physical possession and the right to remove, salvage, or demolish these improvements and enter on all land.
(2) Although all necessary ROW have not been fully acquired, the right to occupy and to use all ROW required for the proper execution of the project has been acquired. Trial or appeal of some parcels may be pending in court and on other parcels full legal possession has not been obtained but right of entry has been obtained, the occupants of all lands and improvements have vacated and the State has physical possession and right to remove, salvage, or demolish these improvements.
(3) The acquisition or right of occupancy and use of a few remaining parcels is not complete, but all occupants of the residences on such parcels have had replacement housing made available to them in accordance with 49 CFR 24.204. Under these circumstances, the State may request the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to authorize actions based on a conditional certification as provided in this paragraph.
(i) The State may request approval for the advertisement for bids based on a conditional certification. The FHWA will approve the request unless it finds that it will not be in the public interest to proceed with the bidding before acquisition activities are complete.
(ii) The State may request approval for physical construction under a contract or through force account work based on a conditional certification. The FHWA will approve the request only if FHWA finds there are exceptional circumstances that make it in the public interest to proceed with construction before acquisition activities are complete.
(iii) Whenever a conditional certification is used, the State shall ensure that occupants of residences, businesses, farms, or non-profit organizations who have not yet moved from the ROW are protected against unnecessary inconvenience and disproportionate injury or any action coercive in nature.
(iv) When the State requests authorization under a conditional certification to advertise for bids or to proceed with physical construction where acquisition or right of occupancy and use of a few parcels has not been obtained, full explanation and reasons therefor, including identification of each such parcel, will be set forth in the State's request along with a realistic date when physical occupancy and use is anticipated as well as substantiation that such date is realistic. Appropriate notification must be provided in the request for bids, identifying all locations where right of occupancy and use has not been obtained. Prior to the State issuing a notice to proceed with construction to the contractor, the State shall provide an updated notification to FHWA identifying all locations where right of occupancy and use has not been obtained along with a realistic date when physical occupancy and use is anticipated.
(v) Participation of title 23 funds in construction delay claims resulting
from unavailable parcels shall be determined in accordance with § 635.124. The FHWA will determine the extent of title 23 participation in costs related to construction delay claims resulting from unavailable parcels where FHWA determines the State did not follow approved processes and procedures.
(d) The State transportation department (SDOT), in accordance with 23 CFR 771.111(h), has submitted public hearing transcripts, certifications and reports pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 128.
(e) An affirmative finding of cost effectiveness or that an emergency exists has been made as required by 23 U.S.C. 112, when construction by some method other than contract based on competitive bidding is contemplated.
(f) Minimum wage rates determined by the Department of Labor in accordance with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 113, are in effect and will not expire before the end of the period within which it can reasonably be expected that the contract will be awarded.
(g) A statement has been received that ROW has been acquired or will be acquired in accordance with 49 CFR part 24 and part 710 of this chapter, or that acquisition of ROW is not required.
(h) A statement has been received that the steps relative to relocation advisory assistance and payments as required by 49 CFR part 24 have been taken, or that they are not required.
(i) The FHWA has determined that appropriate measures have been included in the PS
E in keeping with approved guidelines, for minimizing possible soil erosion and water pollution as a result of highway construction operations.
(j) The FHWA has determined that requirements of 23 CFR part 771 have been fulfilled and appropriate measures have been included in the PS
E to ensure that conditions and commitments made in the development of the project to mitigate environmental harm will be met.
(k) Where utility facilities are to use and occupy the right-of-way, the State has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the FHWA that the provisions of § 645.119(b) of this chapter have been fulfilled.
(l) The FHWA has verified the fact that adequate replacement housing is in place and has been made available to all affected persons.
(m) Where applicable, area wide agency review has been accomplished as required by 42 U.S.C. 3334 and 4231 through 4233.
(n) The FHWA has determined that the PS
E provide for the erection of only those information signs and traffic control devices that conform to the standards developed by the Secretary of Transportation or mandates of Federal law and do not include promotional or other informational signs regarding such matters as identification of public officials, contractors, organizational affiliations, and related logos and symbols.
(o) The FHWA has determined that, where applicable, provisions are included in the PS
E that require the erection of funding source signs that comply with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, for the life of the construction project, in accordance with section 154 of the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894; primarily codified in 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.;
) (Uniform Act).
(p) In the case of a design-build or CM/GC project, the following certification requirements apply
(1) The FHWA's project authorization for final design and physical construction will not be issued until the following conditions have been met:
(i) All projects must conform with the statewide and metropolitan transportation planning requirements (23 CFR part 450).
(ii) All projects in air quality nonattainment and maintenance areas must meet all transportation conformity requirements (40 CFR parts 51 and 93).
(iii) The NEPA review process has been concluded. (
See
§ 636.109 of this chapter).
(iv) The Request for Proposals document has been approved.
(v) A statement is received from the SDOT that either all ROW, utility, and railroad work has been completed or that all necessary arrangements will be
made for the completion of ROW, utility, and railroad work.
(vi) If the State DOT elects to include right-of-way, utility, and/or railroad services as part of the design-builder's or CM/GC contractor's scope of work, then the applicable design-build Request for Proposals document, or the CM/GC solicitation document must include:
(A) A statement concerning scope and current status of the required services; and
(B) A statement which requires compliance with the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and 23 CFR part 710.
(2) During a conformity lapse, an Early Acquisition Project carried out in accordance with § 710.501 of this chapter or a design-build project (including ROW acquisition activities) may continue if, prior to the conformity lapse, the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
) process was completed and the project has not changed significantly in design scope, FHWA authorized the early acquisition or design-build project, and the project met transportation conformity requirements (40 CFR parts 51 and 93).
(3) Changes to the design-build or CM/GC project concept and scope may require a modification of the transportation plan and transportation improvement program. The project sponsor must comply with the metropolitan and statewide transportation planning requirements in 23 CFR part 450 and the transportation conformity requirements (40 CFR parts 51 and 93) in air quality nonattainment and maintenance areas, and provide appropriate approval notification to the design builder or the CM/GC contractor for such changes.
(q) In the case of an ID/IQ project, FHWA may authorize advertisement of the solicitation document prior to approving the PS
E. However, FHWA's project authorization for final design and physical construction will not be issued until the following conditions have been met:
(1) All projects must conform with the statewide and metropolitan transportation planning requirements (23 CFR part 450).
(2) All projects in air quality nonattainment and maintenance areas must meet all transportation conformity requirements (40 CFR parts 51 and 93).
(3) The NEPA process has been concluded as described in § 635.605.
(4) A statement is received from the State that either all ROW, utility, and railroad work has been completed or that all necessary arrangements will be made for the completion of ROW, utility, and railroad work.
[81 FR 57728, Aug. 23, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 72931, Nov. 16, 2020; 87 FR 67558, Nov. 9, 2022; 88 FR 87695, Dec. 19, 2023]

# Subpart D—General Material Requirements

# Source:
41 FR 36204, Aug. 27, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 635.401
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe requirements and procedures relating to product and material selection and use on Federal-aid highway projects.
§ 635.403
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
(a)
FHWA Division Administrator
means the chief Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) official assigned to conduct business in a particular State;
(b)
Material
means any tangible substance incorporated into a Federal-aid highway project;
(c)
PS
E
means plans, specifications, and estimates;
(d)
Special provisions
means additions and revisions to the standard and supplemental specifications applicable to an individual project;
(e)
Standard specifications
means a compilation in book form of specifications approved for general application and repetitive use;
(f)
State
has the meaning set forth in 23 U.S.C. 101;
(g)
State transportation department
means that department, commission, board, or official of any State charged
by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction;
(h)
Supplemental specifications
means approved additions and revisions to the standard specifications.
§ 635.405
Applicability.
The requirements and procedures prescribed in this subpart apply to all contracts relating to Federal-aid highway projects.
[69 FR 7119, Feb. 13, 2004]
§ 635.407
Use of materials made available by a public agency.
(a) Contracts for highway projects shall require the contractor to furnish all materials to be incorporated in the work and shall permit the contractor to select the sources from which the materials are to be obtained. Exception to this requirement may be made when there is a definite finding by the State transportation department and concurred in by the FHWA Division Administrator, that it is in the public interest to require the contractor to use material furnished by the State transportation department or from sources designated by the State transportation department. In cases such as this, the FHWA does not expect mutual sharing of costs unless the State transportation department receives a related credit from another agency or political subdivision of the State. Where such a credit does accrue to the State transportation department, it shall be applied to the Federal-aid project involved. The designation of a mandatory material source may be permitted based on environmental considerations, provided the environment would be substantially enhanced without excessive cost. Otherwise, if a State transportation department proposal to designate a material source for mandatory use would result in higher project costs, Federal-aid funds shall not participate in the increase even if the designation would conserve other public funds.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section will not preclude the designation in the plans and specifications of sources of local natural materials, such as borrow aggregates, that have been investigated by the State transportation department and found to contain materials meeting specification requirements. The use of materials from such designated sources shall not be mandatory unless there is a finding of public interest as stated in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Federal funds may participate in the cost of specifications materials made available by a public agency when they have been actually incorporated in accepted items of work, or in the cost of such materials meeting the criteria and stockpiled at the locations specified in § 635.114 of this chapter.
(d) To be eligible for Federal participation in its cost, any material, other than local natural materials, to be purchased by the State transportation department and furnished to the contractor for mandatory use in the project, must have been acquired on the basis of competitive bidding, except when there is a finding of public interest justifying the use of another method of acquisition. The location and unit price at which such material will be available to the contractor must be stated in the special provisions for the benefit of all prospective bidders. The unit cost eligible for Federation participation will be limited to the unit cost of such material to the State transportation department.
(e) When the State transportation department or another public agency owns or has control over the source of a local natural material the unit price at which such material will be made available to the contractor must be stated in the plans or special provisions. Federal participation will be limited to (1) the cost of the material to the State transportation department or other public agency; or (2) the fair and reasonable value of the material, whichever is less. Special cases may arise that will justify Federal participation on a basis other than that set forth above. Such cases should be fully documented and receive advance approval by the FHWA Division Administrator.
(f) Costs incurred by the State transportation department or other public agency for acquiring a designated source or the right to take materials from it will not be eligible for Federal
participation if the source is not used by the contractor.
(g) The contract provisions for one or a combination of Federal-aid projects shall not specify a mandatory site for the disposal of surplus excavated materials unless there is a finding by the State transportation department with the concurrence of the FHWA Division Administrator that such placement is the most economical except that the designation of a mandatory site may be permitted based on environmental considerations, provided the environment would be substantially enhanced without excessive cost.
§ 635.409
Restrictions upon materials.
No requirement shall be imposed and no procedure shall be enforced by any State transportation department in connection with a project which may operate:
(a) To require the use of or provide a price differential in favor of articles or materials produced within the State, or otherwise to prohibit, restrict or discriminate against the use of articles or materials shipped from or prepared, made or produced in any State, territory or possession of the United States; or
(b) To prohibit, restrict or otherwise discriminate against the use of articles or materials of foreign origin to any greater extent than is permissible under policies of the Department of Transportation as evidenced by requirements and procedures prescribed by the FHWA Administrator to carry out such policies.
§ 635.410
Buy America requirements.
(a) The provisions of this section shall prevail and be given precedence over any requirements of this subpart which are contrary to this section. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to be contrary to the requirements of § 635.409(a) of this subpart.
(b) No Federal-aid highway construction project is to be authorized for advertisement or otherwise authorized to proceed unless at least one of the following requirements is met:
(1) The project either: (i) Includes no permanently incorporated steel or iron materials, or (ii) if iron or steel products are to be used, all manufacturing processes, including application of a coating, for these materials must occur in the United States. Coating includes all processes which protect or enhance the value of the material to which the coating is applied.
(2) The recipient has standard contract provisions that require the use of domestic materials and products, including iron or steel products, to the same or greater extent as the provisions set forth in this section.
(3) The recipient elects to include alternate bid provisions for foreign and domestic iron or steel products which comply with the following requirements. Any procedure for obtaining alternate bids based on furnishing foreign iron or steel products which is acceptable to the Division Administrator may be used. The contract provisions must (i) require all bidders to submit a bid based on furnishing domestic iron or steel products, and (ii) clearly state that the contract will be awarded to the bidder who submits the lowest total bid based on furnishing domestic iron or steel products unless such total bid exceeds the lowest total bid based on furnishing foreign iron or steel products by more than 25 percent.
(4) When iron or steel products are used in a project, the requirements of this section do not prevent a minimal use of foreign iron or steel products, if the cost of such materials used does not exceed one-tenth of one percent (0.1 percent) of the total contract cost or $2,500, whichever is greater. For purposes of this paragraph, the cost is that shown to be the value of the steel and iron products as they are delivered to the project.
(c) No Federal-aid highway construction project is to be authorized for advertisement or otherwise authorized to proceed unless the manufactured products used and permanently incorporated in such project are produced in the United States. To meet the requirement in this paragraph (c), the manufactured product must meet the following:
(1) The following definitions apply to this section:
(i)
Component
means an article, material, or supply, whether manufactured
or unmanufactured, incorporated directly into a manufactured product or, where applicable, an iron or steel product.
(ii)
Excluded materials
means
section 70917(c) materials
as defined in 2 CFR 184.3.
(iii)
Iron or steel products
means articles, materials, or supplies that consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both.
(iv)
Manufactured products
means articles, materials, or supplies that have been processed into a specific form and shape, or combined with other articles, materials, or supplies to create a product with different properties than the individual articles, materials, or supplies. If an item is classified as an iron or steel product, an excluded material, or other product category as specified by law or in 2 CFR part 184, then it is not a manufactured product. However, an article, material, or supply classified as a manufactured product may include components that are iron or steel products, excluded materials, or other product categories as specified by law or in 2 CFR part 184. Mixtures of excluded materials delivered to a work site without final form for incorporation into a project are not a manufactured product.
(v)
Manufacturer,
in the case of manufactured products, means the entity that performs the final manufacturing process that produces a manufactured product.
(vi)
Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both
means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds 50 percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the product and a good faith estimate of the cost of iron or steel components.
(vii)
Produced in the United States,
in the case of manufactured products, means:
(A) For projects obligated on or after October 1, 2025, the product was manufactured in the United States; and
(B) For projects obligated on or after October 1, 2026, the product was manufactured in the United States and the cost of the components of the manufactured product that are mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States is greater than 55 percent of the total cost of all components of the manufactured product.
(2) An article, material, or supply shall only be classified as an iron or steel product, a manufactured product, or other products as specified by law or in 2 CFR part 184. An iron or steel product must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c), an article, material, or supply shall not be considered to fall into multiple categories. In some cases, an article, material, or supply may not fall under any of the above-listed categories. The classification of an article, material, or supply as falling into one of the categories listed in this paragraph (c) must be made based on its status at the time it is brought to the work site for incorporation into an infrastructure project. In general, the work site is the location of the infrastructure project at which the iron or steel product or manufactured product will be incorporated.
(i) With respect to precast concrete products that are classified as manufactured products, components of precast concrete products that consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The cost of such components shall be included in the applicable calculation for purposes of determining whether the precast concrete product is produced in the United States.
(ii) With respect to intelligent transportation systems and other electronic hardware systems that are installed in the highway right of way or other real property and classified as manufactured products, the cabinets or other enclosures of such systems that consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The cost of cabinets or other enclosures shall be included in the applicable calculation for purposes of determining whether systems referred to in the preceding sentence are produced in the United States.
(3) In determining whether the cost of components for manufactured products is greater than 55 percent of the total cost of all components, recipients shall determine the cost as follows:
(i) For components purchased by the manufacturer, the acquisition cost, including transportation costs to the place of incorporation into the manufactured product (whether or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or
(ii) For components manufactured by the manufacturer, all costs associated with the manufacture of the component, including transportation costs as described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, plus allocable overhead costs, but excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs associated with the manufacture of the manufactured product.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph (c) are separate and severable from one another and from the other provisions of this section. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
(d) Standard recipient and Federal-aid contract procedures may be used to assure compliance with the requirements of this section.
[48 FR 53104, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 18821, May 3, 1984; 58 FR 38975, July 21, 1993; 90 FR 2957, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 635.411
Culvert and storm sewer material types.
State Departments of Transportation (State DOTs) shall have the autonomy to determine culvert and storm sewer material types to be included in the construction of a project on a Federal-aid highway.
[84 FR 51028, Sept. 27, 2019]
§ 635.413
Guaranty and warranty clauses.
The State DOT may include warranty provisions in National Highway System (NHS) construction contracts in accordance with the following:
(a) Warranty provisions shall be for a specific construction product or feature. Items of maintenance not eligible for Federal participation shall not be covered.
(b) All warranty requirements and subsequent revisions shall be submitted to the Division Administrator for advance approval.
(c) No warranty requirement shall be approved which, in the judgment of the Division Administrator, may place an undue obligation on the contractor for items over which the contractor has no control.
(d) A State DOT may follow its own procedures regarding the inclusion of warranty provisions in non-NHS Federal-aid contracts.
(e) In the case of a design-build project, the following requirements will apply instead of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(1) General project warranties may be used on NHS projects, provided:
(i) The term of the warranty is short (generally one to two years); however, projects developed under a public-private agreement may include warranties that are appropriate for the term of the contract or agreement.
(ii) The warranty is not the sole means of acceptance;
(iii) The warranty must not include items of routine maintenance which are not eligible for Federal participation; and,
(iv) The warranty may include the quality of workmanship, materials and other specific tasks identified in the contract.
(2) Performance warranties for specific products on NHS projects may be used at the State DOT's discretion. If performance warranties are used, detailed performance criteria must be provided in the Request for Proposal document.
(3) The State DOT may follow its own procedures regarding the inclusion of warranty provisions on non-NHS Federal-aid design-build contracts.
(4) For best value selections, the State DOT may allow proposers to submit alternate warranty proposals that improve upon the warranty terms in the RFP document. Such alternate warranty proposals must be in addition to the base proposal that responds to the RFP requirements.
[60 FR 44274, Aug. 25, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002; 72 FR 45336, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 635.417
Convict produced materials.
(a) Materials produced after July 1, 1991, by convict labor may only be incorporated in a Federal-aid highway construction project if such materials have been:
(1) Produced by convicts who are on parole, supervised release, or probation from a prison or
(2) Produced in a qualified prison facility and the cumulative annual production amount of such materials for use in Federal-aid highway construction does not exceed the amount of such materials produced in such facility for use in Federal-aid highway construction during the 12-month period ending July 1, 1987.
(b)
Qualified prison facility
means any prison facility in which convicts, during the 12-month period ending July 1, 1987, produced materials for use in Federal-aid highway construction projects.
[53 FR 1923, Jan. 25, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 38975, July 21, 1993]

# Subpart E—Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) Contracting

# Source:
81 FR 86943, Dec. 2, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 635.501
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart prescribe policies, requirements, and procedures relating to the use of the CM/GC method of contracting on Federal-aid projects.
§ 635.502
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Agreed price
means the price agreed to by the Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) contractor and the contracting agency to provide construction services for a specific scope and schedule.
CM/GC contractor
means the entity that has been awarded a two-phase contract for a CM/GC project and is responsible for providing preconstruction services under the first phase and, if a price agreement is reached, construction services under the second phase of such contract.
CM/GC project
means a project to be delivered using a two-phase contract with a CM/GC contractor for services during the preconstruction and, if there is an agreed price, construction phases of a project.
Construction services
means the physical construction work undertaken by a CM/GC contractor to construct a project or a portion of the project (including early work packages). Construction services include all costs to perform, supervise, and administer physical construction work. Construction services may be authorized as a single contract for the project, or through a combination of contracts covering portions of the CM/GC project.
Contracting agency
means the State Transportation Agency (STA), and any State or local government agency, public-private partnership, or Indian tribe (as defined in 2 CFR 200.54) that is the acting under the supervision of the STA and is awarding and administering a CM/GC contract.
Division Administrator
means the chief FHWA official assigned to conduct business in a particular State.
Early work package
means a portion or phase of physical construction work (including but not limited to site preparation, structure demolition, hazardous material abatement/treatment/removal, early material acquisition/fabrication contracts, or any action that materially affects the objective consideration of alternatives in the NEPA review process) that is procured after NEPA is complete but before all design work for the project is complete. Contracting agencies may procure an early work package when construction risks have been addressed (both agency and CM/GC contractor risks) and the scope of work is defined sufficiently for the contracting agency and the CM/GC contractor to reasonably determine price. The requirements in § 635.506 (including § 635.506(d)(2)) and § 635.507 apply to procuring an early work package and FHWA authorization for an early work package.
Final design
has the same meaning as defined in § 636.103 of this chapter.
NEPA process
means the environmental review required under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
),
applicable portions of the NEPA implementing regulations at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, and part 771 of this chapter.
Preconstruction services
means consulting to provide a contracting agency and its designer with information regarding the impacts of design on the physical construction of the project, including but not limited to: Scheduling, work sequencing, cost engineering, constructability, cost estimating, and risk identification. Under a preconstruction services contract, the CM/GC contractor may provide consulting services during both preliminary and, subject to provisions in this subpart, final design. Such services may include on-site material sampling and data collection to assist the contacting agency's design team in its preliminary design work, but do not include design and engineering-related services as defined in § 172.3 of this chapter. The services may include the preparation of plans typically developed by a construction contractor during the construction phase (such as preliminary staging or preliminary falsework plans) when needed for the NEPA process. However, services involving plans or submittals that are considered elements of final design and not needed for the NEPA process (such as shop drawings or fabrication plans) is not allowed, even on an at-risk basis, prior to the completion of the NEPA review process.
Preliminary design
has the same meaning as defined in section 636.103 of this title.
Solicitation document
means the document used by the contracting agency to advertise the CM/GC project and request expressions of interest, statements of qualifications, proposals, or offers.
State transportation agency
(STA) has the same meaning as the term State transportation department (State DOT) under § 635.102 of this chapter.
§ 635.503
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all Federal-aid projects within the right-of-way of a public highway, those projects required by law to be treated as if located on a Federal-aid highway, and other projects which are linked to such projects (
i.e.,
the project would not exist without another Federal-aid highway project) that are to be delivered using the CM/GC contractor method.
§ 635.504
CM/GC Requirements.
(a)
In general.
A contracting agency may award a two-phase contract to a CM/GC contractor for preconstruction and construction services. The first phase of this contract is the preconstruction services phase. The second phase is the construction services phase. The construction services phase may occur under one contract or under multiple contracts covering portions of the project, including early work packages.
(b)
Procurement requirements.
(1) The contracting agency may procure the CM/GC contract using applicable State or local competitive selection procurement procedures as long as those procedures do not serve as a barrier to free and open competition or conflict with applicable Federal laws and regulations.
(2) Contracting agency procedures may use any of the following solicitation options in procuring a CM/GC contract: Letters of interest, requests for qualifications, interviews, request for proposals or other solicitation procedures provided by applicable State law, regulation or policy. Single-phase or multiple-phase selection procedures may also be used.
(3) Contracting agency procedures shall require, at a minimum, that a CM/GC contract be advertised through solicitation documents that:
(i) Clearly define the scope of services being requested;
(ii) List evaluation factors and significant subfactors and their relative importance in evaluating proposals;
(iii) List all required deliverables;
(iv) Identify whether interviews will be conducted before establishing the final rank (however, the contracting agency may reserve the right to make a final determination whether interviews are needed based on responses to the solicitation); and
(v) Include or reference sample contract form(s).
(4) If interviews are used in the selection process, the contracting agency must offer the opportunity for an
interview to all short listed firms (or firms that submitted responsive proposals, if a short list is not used). Also, if interviews are used, then the contracting agency must not engage in conduct that favors one firm over another and must not disclose a firm's offer to another firm.
(5) A contracting agency may award a CM/GC contract based on qualifications, experience, best value, or any other combination of factors considered appropriate by the contracting agency and the Division Administrator and which are clearly specified in the solicitation documents.
(6) In the event that the contracting agency is unwilling or unable to enter into a contract with the CM/GC contractor for the construction services phase of the project (including any early work package), after the concurrence of the Division Administrator, the contracting agency may initiate a new procurement process meeting the requirements of subpart A of this part, or of another approved method for the affected portion of the construction work. If Federal-aid participation is being requested in the cost of construction, the contracting agency must request FHWA's approval before advertising for bids or proposals in accordance with § 635.112 and part 636 of this chapter. When the contracting agency makes a decision to initiate a new procurement, the contracting agency may determine that the CM/GC contractor is likely to have a competitive advantage that could adversely affect fair and open competition and not allow the CM/GC contractor to submit competitive bids.
(c)
FHWA approval of CM/GC procedures.
(1) The STA must submit its proposed CM/GC procurement procedures to the FHWA Division Administrator for review and approval. Any changes in approved procedures and requirements shall also be subject to approval by the Division Administrator. Other contracting agencies may follow STA approved procedures, or their own procedures if approved by both the STA and FHWA.
(2) The Division Administrator may approve procedures that conform to the requirements of this subpart and which do not, in the opinion of the Division Administrator, operate to restrict competition. The Division Administrator's approval of CM/GC procurement procedures may not be delegated or assigned to the STA.
(d)
Subcontracting.
Consistent with § 635.116(a), contracts for construction services must specify a minimum percentage of work (no less than 30 percent of the total cost of all construction services performed under the CM/GC contract, excluding specialty work) that a contractor must perform with its own forces. If required by State law, regulation, or administrative policy, the contracting agency may require the CM/GC contractor to competitively let and award subcontracts for construction services to the lowest responsive bidder.
(e)
Payment methods.
(1) The method of payment to the CM/GC contractor shall be set forth in the original solicitation documents, contract, and any contract modification or change order thereto. A single contract may contain different payment methods as appropriate for compensation of different elements of work.
(2) The methods of payment for preconstruction services shall be: Lump sum, cost plus fixed fee, cost per unit of work, specific rates of compensation, or other comparable payment method permitted in State law and regulation. When compensation is based on actual costs, an approved indirect cost rate must be used. The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction cost methods of payment shall not be used.
(3) The method of payment for construction services may include any method of payment authorized by State law (including, but not limited to, lump sum, unit price, and target price). The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction cost methods of payment shall not be used.
§ 635.505
Relationship to the NEPA process.
(a) In procuring a CM/GC contract before the completion of the NEPA process, the contracting agency may:
(1) Issue solicitation documents;
(2) Proceed with the award of a CM/GC contract providing for
preconstruction services and an option to enter into a future contract for construction services once the NEPA review process is complete;
(3) Issue notices to proceed to the CM/GC contractor for preconstruction services, excluding final design-related activities; and
(4) Issue a notice-to-proceed to a consultant design firm for the preliminary design and any work related to preliminary design of the project to the extent that those actions do not limit any reasonable range of alternatives.
(b) The contracting agency shall not initiate construction activities (even on an at-risk basis) or allow such activities to proceed prior to the completion of the NEPA process. The contracting agency shall not perform or contract for construction services (including early work packages of any kind) prior to the completion of the NEPA process.
(c) A contracting agency may proceed, solely at the risk and expense of the contracting agency, with design activities at any level of detail, including final design and preconstruction services associated with final design, for a CM/GC project before completion of the NEPA process without affecting subsequent approvals required for the project. However, FHWA shall not authorize final design activities and preconstruction services associated with final design, and such activities shall not be eligible for Federal funding as provided in § 635.506(c), until after the completion the NEPA process. A contracting agency may use a CM/GC contractor for preconstruction services associated with at-risk final design only if the contracting agency has a procedure for segregating the costs of the CM/GC contractor's at-risk work from preconstruction services eligible for reimbursement during the NEPA process. If a contracting agency decides to perform at-risk final design, it must notify FHWA of its decision to do so before undertaking such activities.
(d) The CM/GC contract must include termination provisions in the event the environmental review process does not result in the selection of a build alternative. This termination provision is in addition to the termination for cause or convenience clause required by Appendix II to 2 CFR part 200.
(e) If the contracting agency expects to use information from the CM/GC contractor in the NEPA review for the project, then the contracting agency is responsible for ensuring its CM/GC contract gives the contracting agency the right to obtain, as needed, technical information on all alternatives analyzed in the NEPA review.
(f) The CM/GC contract must include appropriate provisions ensuring no commitments are made to any alternative during the NEPA process, and that the comparative merits of all alternatives identified and considered during the NEPA process, including the no-build alternative, will be evaluated and fairly considered.
(g) The CM/GC contractor must not prepare NEPA documentation or have any decisionmaking responsibility with respect to the NEPA process. However, the CM/GC contractor may be requested to provide information about the project and possible mitigation actions, including constructability information, and its work product may be considered in the NEPA analysis and included in the record.
(h) Any contract for construction services under a CM/GC contract must include appropriate provisions ensuring that all environmental and mitigation measures identified in the NEPA documentation and committed to in the NEPA determination for the selected alternative will be implemented, excepting only measures the contracting agency expressly describes in the CM/GC contract as excluded because they are the responsibility of others.
§ 635.506
Project approvals and authorizations.
(a)
In general.
(1) Under 23 U.S.C. 106(c), the States may assume certain FHWA responsibilities for project design, plans, specifications, estimates, contract awards, and inspections. Any individual State's assumption of FHWA responsibilities for approvals and determinations for CM/GC projects, as described in this subpart, will be addressed in the State's FHWA/STA Stewardship and Oversight Agreement. The State may not further delegate or assign those responsibilities. If an STA
assumes responsibility for an FHWA approval or determination contained in this subpart, the STA will include documentation in the project file sufficient to substantiate its actions and to support any request for authorization of funds. The STA will provide FHWA with the documentation upon request.
(2) States cannot assume FHWA review or approval responsibilities for §§ 635.504(c) (review and approval of CM/GC procurement procedures) or 635.506(c) (FHWA post-NEPA review of at-risk final design costs for eligibility).
(3) In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 106(c), States may assume FHWA review or approval responsibilities for §§ 635.504(b)(6) (approval of bidding), 635.504(e)(3) (approval of indirect cost rate), 635.506(b) (approval of preconstruction price and cost/price analysis), 635.506(d)(2) (approval of price estimate for entire project), 635.506(d)(4) (approval of construction price analysis for each construction services contract), and 635.506(e) (approval of preconstruction services and construction services contract awards) for CM/GC projects on the National Highway System, including projects on the Interstate System, and must assume such responsibilities for projects off the National Highway System unless the State determines such assumption is not appropriate.
(b)
Preconstruction services approvals and authorization.
(1) If the contracting agency wishes Federal participation in the cost of the CM/GC contractor's preconstruction services, it must request FHWA's authorization of preliminary engineering before incurring such costs, except as provided by section 1440 of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, Pub. L. 114-357 (December 1, 2015).
(2) Before authorizing pre-construction services by the CM/GC contractor, the Division Administrator must review and approve the contracting agency's cost or price analysis for the preconstruction services procurement (including contract modifications). A cost or price analysis is encouraged but not required for procurements less than the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR 200.88. The requirements of this paragraph apply when the contracting agency is requesting Federal assistance in the cost of preconstruction services.
(c)
Final design during NEPA process.
(1) If the contracting agency proceeds with final design activities, including CM/GC preconstruction services associated with final design activities, at its own expense before the completion of the NEPA process, then those activities for the selected alternative may be eligible for Federal reimbursement after the completion of the NEPA process so long as the Division Administrator finds that the contracting agency's final design-related activities:
(i) Did not limit the identification and fair evaluation of a reasonable range of alternatives for the proposed project;
(ii) Did not result in an irrevocable commitment by the contracting agency to the selection of a particular alternative;
(iii) Did not have an adverse environmental impact; and
(iv) Are necessary and reasonable and adequately documented.
(2) If, during the NEPA process, the Division Administrator finds the final design work limits the fair evaluation of alternatives, irrevocably commits the contracting agency to the selection of any alternative, or causes an adverse environmental impact, then the Division Administrator shall require the contracting agency to take any necessary action to ensure the integrity of the NEPA process regardless of whether or not the contracting agency wishes to receive Federal reimbursement for such activities.
(d)
Construction services approvals and authorizations.
(1) Subject to the requirements in § 635.505, the contracting agency may request Federal participation in the construction services costs associated with a CM/GC construction project, or portion of a project (including an early work package). In such cases, FHWA's construction contracting requirements will apply to all of the CM/GC project's construction contracts if any portion (including an early work package) of the CM/GC project construction is funded with title 23 funds. Any expenses incurred for construction services before FHWA authorization shall not be eligible for
reimbursement except as may be determined in accordance with § 1.9 of this chapter.
(2) The Division Administrator must approve the price estimate for construction costs for the entire project before authorization of construction services (including authorization of an early work package).
(3) The contracting agency must perform a price analysis for any contract (or contract modification) that establishes or revises the scope, schedule or price for the construction of the CM/GC project or a portion of the project (including an early work package). The price analysis must compare the agreed price with the contracting agency's engineer's estimate or an independent cost estimate (if required by the contracting agency). A price analysis is encouraged but not required for procurements less than the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR 200.88.
(4) The Division Administrator must review and approve the contracting agency's price analysis and agreed price for the construction services of a CM/GC project or a portion of the project (including an early work package) before authorization of construction services.
(5) Where the contracting agency and the CM/GC contractor agree on a price for construction services that is approved under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, FHWA's authorization of construction services will be based on the approved agreed price for the project or portion of the project. The authorization may include authorization of an early work package, including the advanced acquisition of materials consistent with § 635.122 and this subpart. In the event that construction materials are acquired for a CM/GC project but not installed in the CM/GC project, the cost of such material will not be eligible for Federal-aid participation. In accordance with § 635.507 and 2 CFR part 200, FHWA may deny eligibility for part or all of an early work package if such work is not needed for, or used for, the project.
(e)
Contract award.
The award of a Federal-aid CM/GC contract for preconstruction services and the award of contract(s) for construction services require prior concurrence from the Division Administrator. The concurrence is a prerequisite to authorization of preconstruction and construction services (including authorization for an early work package). Concurrence in the CM/GC contract award for construction services constitutes approval of the agreed price, scope, and schedule for the work under that contract. Where the contracting agency has established a Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) contract goal for the CM/GC construction services contract, the initial proposal for CM/GC construction services must include the DBE documentation required by 49 CFR 26.53(b)(2), or it must include a contractually binding commitment to meet the DBE contract goal, with the information required by 49 CFR 26.53(b)(2) provided before the contracting agency awards the contract for construction services. A copy of the executed contract between the contracting agency and the CM/GC contractor, including any contract for construction services, shall be furnished to the Division Administrator as soon as practical after execution. If the contracting agency decides not to proceed with the award of a CM/GC construction services contract, then it must notify the FHWA Division Administrator as provided in § 635.504(b)(6).
§ 635.507
Cost eligibility.
(a) Costs, or prices based on estimated costs, under a CM/GC contract shall be eligible for Federal-aid reimbursement only to the extent that costs incurred, or cost estimates included in negotiated prices, are allowable in accordance with the Federal cost principles (as specified in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E). Contracting agencies must perform a cost or price analysis in connection with procurement actions, including contract modifications, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.323(a) and this subpart.
(1) For preconstruction services, to the extent that actual costs or cost estimates are included in negotiated prices that will be used for cost reimbursement, the costs must comply with the Federal cost principles to be eligible for participation.
(2) For construction services, the price analysis must confirm the agreed
price is reasonable in order to satisfy cost eligibility requirements (see § 635.506(d)(3)). The FHWA will rely on an approved price analysis when authorizing funds for construction.
(b)
Indirect cost rates.
Where preconstruction service payments are based on actual costs the CM/GC contractor must provide an indirect cost rate established in accordance with the Federal cost principles (as specified in 2 CFR part 200 subpart E).
(c)
Cost certification.
(1) If the CM/GC contractor presents an indirect cost rate established in accordance with the Federal cost principles (as specified in 2 CFR part 200 subpart E), it shall include a certification by an official of the CM/GC contractor that all costs are allowable in accordance with the Federal cost principles.
(2) An official of the CM/GC contractor shall be an individual executive or financial officer of the CM/GC contractor's organization, at a level no lower than a Vice President or Chief Financial Officer, or equivalent, who has the authority to make representations about the financial information utilized to establish the indirect cost rate proposal submitted.
(3) The certification of final indirect costs shall read as follows:
Certificate of Final Indirect Costs
This is to certify that I have reviewed this proposal to establish final indirect cost rates and to the best of my knowledge and belief:
1. All costs included in this proposal (identify proposal and date) to establish final indirect cost rates for (identify period covered by rate) are allowable in accordance with the cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 subpart E; and
2. This proposal does not include any costs which are expressly unallowable under applicable cost principles of 2 CFR part 200 subpart E.

# Subpart F—Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) Contracting

# Source:
85 FR 72932, Nov. 16, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 635.601
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart prescribe policies, requirements, and procedures relating to the use of the ID/IQ method of contracting on Federal-aid construction projects.
§ 635.602
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Best value selection
means any selection process in which proposals contain both price and qualitative components and award of the contract is based upon a combination of price and qualitative considerations. Qualitative considerations may include past performance, timeliness, reliability, experience, work quality, safety, or other considerations.
Contracting agency
means the State department of transportation (State DOT), and any State or local government agency, public-private partnership, or Indian tribe (as defined in 2 CFR part 200) that is the acting under the supervision of the State DOT and is awarding and administering an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) contract.
ID/IQ
means a method of contracting that allows an indefinite quantity of services for a fixed time. This method is used when a contracting agency anticipates a recurring need but has not determined, above a specified minimum, the precise quantities of services that it will require during the contract period. Contractors bid unit prices for estimated quantities of standard work items, and work orders are used to define the location and quantities for specific work.
ID/IQ contract
means the principal contract between the contracting agency and the contractor. Contracting agencies may use other names for ID/IQ contracts including job order contracting (JOC) contracts, master contracts, on-call contracts, push-button contracts, design-build ID/IQ contracts, design-build push button contracts, stand-by contracts, or task order contracts.
JOC, or Job order contracting,
means a form of ID/IQ contracting that uses a unit price book in the solicitation and the bidder's adjustment factors or multipliers to establish contract prices.
JOC contract
means a type of ID/IQ contract delivered using the JOC method. Requirements for ID/IQ contracts apply to JOC contracts unless otherwise specified in this subpart.
NEPA process
has the same meaning as defined in § 635.502 of this part.
Unit price book
means a book, guide, list, or similar document which includes defined construction tasks, and for each task, includes a unit of measure and a preset unit price.
Work order
means the contract document issued for a definite scope of work under an ID/IQ contract. It defines the location, time, and scope of work required by the contracting agency. It also defines required pay items, quantities, and unit prices, as applicable. Contracting agencies may use other names for work orders including job orders, service orders, task orders, or task work orders.
§ 635.603
Applicability.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the provisions of this subpart apply to all Federal-aid construction projects.
(b) This subpart does not apply to engineering and design service contracts, to which 23 CFR part 172 applies, or Federal Lands Highway contracts, to which 48 CFR subpart 16.5 applies.
§ 635.604
ID/IQ Requirements.
(a)
Procurement requirements.
(1) The contracting agency may procure the ID/IQ contract using applicable State or local competitive selection procurement procedures if those procedures:
(i) Comply with this section;
(ii) Are effective in securing competition; and
(iii) Do not conflict with applicable Federal laws and regulations.
(2) The solicitation for an ID/IQ contract shall state the procedures and criteria the contracting agency will use to award the ID/IQ contract.
(3) In addition to the requirements set forth under (a)(2), the ID/IQ contract, and any solicitation for an ID/IQ contract, must:
(i) Specify the period of the contract, including the number of optional contract extensions and the period for which the contracting agency may extend the contract under each optional extension.
(ii) Specify the basis, such as a published index, and procedure to be used for adjusting prices for optional contract extensions when optional contract extensions are included. Negotiated contract price adjustments for optional contract extensions are not eligible for Federal-aid participation.
(iii) Specify the estimated quantity or value of services the contracting agency anticipates it may acquire under the contract, either on an annual basis or over the entire initial term of the ID/IQ contract.
(iv) Include appropriate statements of work, specifications, or other descriptions that reasonably and accurately describe the general scope, nature, complexity, and purpose of the services the contracting agency will acquire under the contract.
(v) State the procedures that the contracting agency will use in issuing work orders, and, if multiple awards may be made, state the procedures and selection criteria that the contracting agency will use to provide awardees a fair opportunity to be considered for each work order.
(vi) Include the contracting agency's dispute resolution procedures available to awardees if multiple awards may be made.
(4) In addition to the requirements set forth under (a)(3), a JOC contract shall:
(i) Use a unit price book to contain or reference the information described under (a)(3)(iv).
(ii) Include the unit price book both in the contract and the solicitation.
(iii) Include prices adjusted by the contractor's adjustment factors or multipliers for each item in the unit price book.
(5) The contracting agency's procurement procedures may include selection of one or multiple contractors based on competitive low bid or best value selection under a single solicitation. For contracts awarded to multiple contractors under a single solicitation, the issuance of work orders must be based on lowest cost or lowest cost plus time to the government for the specified work. Work orders shall not be issued
to contractors on a rotating basis or other non-competitive method.
(6) The sum of the duration of the initial ID/IQ contract and any optional contract extensions shall not exceed five years. The contracting agency may include a provision in the ID/IQ contract to exercise an option or options to extend the contract for a term or terms such that the duration of each optional contract extension does not exceed the initial duration of the ID/IQ contract.
(i) Prior to granting a contract extension, the contracting agency must receive concurrence from the Division Administrator.
(ii) For ID/IQ contracts where prevailing wages apply under 23 U.S.C. 113, the current prevailing wage rate determination as determined by the U.S. Department of Labor in effect on the date of the execution of the contract extension shall apply to work covered under the contract extension.
(iii) For ID/IQ contracts exceeding one year in duration, the contracting agency may use price escalation methods, such as referring to a published index, to adjust the payment for items of work in the issuance of work orders. Such price escalation methods, however, shall not be applied to items of work when those items are separately covered under commodity price escalation clauses in the ID/IQ contract.
(7) Contracting agency payment to a contractor to satisfy a minimum award provision that is not supported by eligible work is not eligible for Federal-aid participation.
(b)
Participation by disadvantaged business enterprises.
The requirements of 49 CFR part 26 and the State's approved Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) plan apply to ID/IQ contracts. At the option of the State DOT, DBE contract or project goal setting and goal attainment may apply to ID/IQ contracts in their entirety, or to individual work orders for ID/IQ contracts with single or multiple awards, or both. The solicitation for ID/IQ contracts shall specify the applicable requirements.
(c)
Subcontracting.
At the option of the State DOT, the minimum prime contractor participation requirement set forth at § 635.116 may be applied over the entirety of the ID/IQ contract or applied to each individual work order. The solicitation shall specify the applicable requirements.
(d)
Liquidated damages.
When a contracting agency's processes or procedures use project cost to establish the assessed rate of liquidated damages under § 635.127, the work order cost shall be used to determine the rate when liquidated damages are assessed.
(e)
Applicable State procedures.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as prohibiting a State DOT from adopting more restrictive policies and procedures than contained herein regarding ID/IQ contracts.
[85 FR 72932, Nov. 16, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 67558, Nov. 9, 2022]
§ 635.605
Approvals and authorizations.
(a)
Advertisement, award, and the relationship to NEPA.
(1) The solicitation for an ID/IQ contract may identify all, some, or none of the specific locations where construction is to be required under the ID/IQ contract.
(2) With prior concurrence of the Division Administrator, the contracting agency may advertise the solicitation for an ID/IQ contract prior to the completion of the NEPA process.
(3) With prior concurrence of the Division Administrator, the contracting agency may award an ID/IQ contract prior to the completion of the NEPA process.
(4) An authorization to proceed, or formal project agreement under § 630.106 of this chapter for an ID/IQ contract, shall not be issued or executed for final design or physical construction for work until the NEPA process has been completed for said work. An authorization or agreement under this paragraph may apply to work in multiple locations.
(5) With the approval of the Division Administrator, the formal project agreement under § 630.106 of this chapter for final design or physical construction under an ID/IQ contract may be amended as necessary as additional work locations are identified and the NEPA process is completed for the additional work locations.
(6) The agreement estimate for final design or physical construction required for an ID/IQ contract under § 635.115 shall not exceed the actual or best estimated costs of items necessary to complete the scope of work considered in applicable work orders and in the completed NEPA processes as described in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this subsection. The estimate shall be adjusted as necessary as set forth under § 630.106(a)(4) of this chapter.
(b)
Federal participation.
(1) Subject to the requirements in this subpart, the contracting agency may request Federal participation in the costs associated with an ID/IQ contract, or portion of a contract. In such cases, FHWA's construction contracting requirements will apply to all ID/IQ contract work orders if any ID/IQ contract work orders are funded with Title 23, U.S.C. funds. Any expenses incurred before FHWA authorization shall not be eligible for reimbursement except as may be determined in accordance with § 1.9 of this chapter.
(2) The applicable Federal share for each work order shall be specified in the relevant project agreement.
§ 635.606
ID/IQ procedures.
(a)
FHWA approval.
The State DOT shall submit its proposed ID/IQ procurement procedures to the Division Administrator for review and approval. Following approval by the Division Administrator, any subsequent changes in procedures and requirements shall also be subject to approval by the Division Administrator before they are implemented. Other contracting agencies may follow approved State DOT procedures in their State or their own procedures if approved by both the State DOT and FHWA. The Division Administrator's approval of ID/IQ procurement procedures may not be delegated or assigned to the State DOT.
(b)
Competition.
ID/IQ procurement procedures shall effectively secure competition in the judgment of the Division Administrator.
(c)
Procurement requirements.
ID/IQ procurement procedures shall include the following procedures and responsibilities:
(1) Review and approval of ID/IQ solicitations;
(2) Review and approval of work item descriptions and specifications;
(3) Approval to advertise solicitations;
(4) Concurrence with ID/IQ contract awards to single or multiple contractors;
(5) Approval of and amendments to formal project agreements and authorizations to proceed pursuant to § 630.106 of this chapter;
(6) Issuance of work orders;
(7) Approval of and amendments to agreement estimates pursuant to § 635.115;
(8) Changed conditions clauses;
(9) Approval of contract changes and extra work pursuant to § 635.120; and
(10) Other procedures as needed to ensure compliance with other requirements in this subpart and under Title 23, U.S.C. and its implementing regulations and 49 CFR part 26.
(d)
Design-build and ID/IQ.
Subject to the approval of the Division Administrator, as described in § 635.606(a), contracting agencies may incorporate the design-build contracting method with ID/IQ contracts. In addition to the requirements of this section, the contracting agency shall include procedures as needed to ensure compliance with part 636 of this chapter and related requirements.
Pt. 636

# PART 636—DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACTING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
636.101
What does this part do?
636.102
Does this part apply to me?
636.103
What are the definitions of terms used in this part?
636.104
Does this part apply to all Federal-aid design-build projects?
636.105
Is the FHWA requiring the use of design-build?
636.106
[Reserved]
636.107
May contracting agencies use geographic preference in Federal-aid design-build or public-private partnership projects?
636.108
[Reserved]
636.109
How does the NEPA process relate to the design-build procurement process?
636.110
What procedures may be used for solicitations and receipt of proposals?
636.111
Can oral presentations be used during the procurement process?
636.112
May stipends be used?
636.113
Is the stipend amount eligible for Federal participation?
636.114
What factors should be considered in risk allocation?
636.115
May I meet with industry to gather information concerning the appropriate risk allocation strategies?
636.116
What organizational conflict of interest requirements apply to design-build projects?
636.117
What conflict of interest standards apply to individuals who serve as selection team members for the owner?
636.118
Is team switching allowed after contract award?
636.119
How does this part apply to a project developed under a public-private partnership?

# Subpart B—Selection Procedures, Award Criteria
636.201
What selection procedures and award criteria may be used?
636.202
When are two-phase design-build selection procedures appropriate?
636.203
What are the elements of two-phase selection procedures for competitive proposals?
636.204
What items may be included in a phase-one solicitation?
636.205
Can past performance be used as an evaluation criteria?
636.206
How do I evaluate offerors who do not have a record of relevant past performance?
636.207
Is there a limit on short listed firms?
636.208
May I use my existing prequalification procedures with design-build contracts?
636.209
What items must be included in a phase-two solicitation?
636.210
What requirements apply to projects which use the modified design-build procedure?
636.211
When and how should tradeoffs be used?
636.212
To what extent must tradeoff decisions be documented?

# Subpart C—Proposal Evaluation Factors
636.301
How should proposal evaluation factors be selected?
636.302
Are there any limitations on the selection and use of proposal evaluation factors?
636.303
May pre-qualification standards be used as proposal evaluation criteria in the RFP?
636.304
What process may be used to rate and score proposals?
636.305
Can price information be provided to analysts who are reviewing technical proposals?

# Subpart D—Exchanges
636.401
What types of information exchange may take place prior to the release of the RFP document?
636.402
What types of information exchange may take place after the release of the RFP document?
636.403
What information may be exchanged with a clarification?
636.404
Can a competitive range be used to limit competition?
636.405
After developing a short list, can I still establish a competitive range?
636.406
Are communications allowed prior to establishing the competitive range?
636.407
Am I limited in holding communications with certain firms?
636.408
Can communications be used to cure proposal deficiencies?
636.409
Can offerors revise their proposals during communications?

# Subpart E—Discussions, Proposal Revisions and Source Selection
636.501
What issues may be addressed in discussions?
636.502
Why should I use discussions?
636.503
Must I notify offerors of my intent to use/not use discussions?
636.504
If the solicitation indicated my intent was to award contract without discussions, but circumstances change, may I still hold discussions?
636.505
Must a contracting agency establish a competitive range if it intends to have discussions with offerors?
636.506
What issues must be covered in discussions?
636.507
What subjects are prohibited in discussions, communications and clarifications with offerors?
636.508
Can price or cost be an issue in discussions?
636.509
Can offerors revise their proposals as a result of discussions?
636.510
Can the competitive range be further defined once discussions have begun?
636.511
Can there be more than one round of discussions?
636.512
What is the basis for the source selection decision?
636.513
Are limited negotiations allowed prior to contract execution?
636.514
How may I provide notifications and debriefings?

# Authority:
Sec. 1503 of Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144; Sec. 1307 of Pub. L. 105-178, 112 Stat. 107; 23 U.S.C. 101, 109, 112, 113, 114, 115, 119, 128, and 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 636.101
What does this part do?
This part describes the FHWA's policies and procedures for approving design-build projects financed under title 23, United States Code (U.S.C.). This part satisfies the requirement of section 1307(c) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), enacted on June 9, 1998. The contracting procedures of this part apply to all design-build project funded under title 23, U.S.C.
§ 636.102
Does this part apply to me?
(a) This part uses a plain language format to make the rule easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Unless otherwise noted, the pronoun “you” means the primary recipient of Federal-aid highway funds, the State Transportation Department (STD). Where the STD has an agreement with a local public agency (or other governmental agency) to administer a Federal-aid design-build project, the term “you” will also apply to that contracting agency.
§ 636.103
What are the definitions of terms used in this part?
Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this part. Also, the following definitions are used:
Adjusted low bid
means a form of best value selection in which qualitative aspects are scored on a 0 to 100 scale expressed as a decimal; price is then divided by qualitative score to yield an “adjusted bid” or “price per quality point.” Award is made to offeror with the lowest adjusted bid.
Best value selection
means any selection process in which proposals contain both price and qualitative components and award is based upon a combination of price and qualitative considerations.
Clarifications
means a written or oral exchange of information which takes place after the receipt of proposals when award without discussions is contemplated. The purpose of clarifications is to address minor or clerical revisions in a proposal.
Communications
are exchanges, between the contracting agency and offerors, after receipt of proposals, which lead to the establishment of the competitive range.
Competitive acquisition
means an acquisition process which is designed to foster an impartial and comprehensive evaluation of offerors' proposals, leading to the selection of the proposal representing the best value to the contracting agency.
Competitive range
means a list of the most highly rated proposals based on the initial proposal rankings. It is based on the rating of each proposal against all evaluation criteria.
Contracting agency
means the public agency awarding and administering a design-build contract. The contracting agency may be the STD or another State or local public agency.
Deficiency
means a material failure of a proposal to meet a contracting agency requirement or a combination of significant weaknesses in a proposal that increases the risk of unsuccessful contract performance to an unacceptable level.
Design-bid-build
means the traditional project delivery method where design and construction are sequential steps in the project development process.
Design-build contract
means an agreement that provides for design and construction of improvements by a contractor or private developer. The term encompasses design-build-maintain, design-build-operate, design-build-finance and other contracts that include services in addition to design and construction. Franchise and concession agreements are included in the term if they provide for the franchisee or concessionaire to develop the project which is the subject of the agreement.
Design-builder
means the entity contractually responsible for delivering the project design and construction.
Discussions
mean written or oral exchanges that take place after the establishment of the competitive range with the intent of allowing the offerors to revise their proposals.
Final design
means any design activities following preliminary design and expressly includes the preparation of final construction plans and detailed
specifications for the performance of construction work.
Fixed price/best design
means a form of best value selection in which contract price is established by the owner and stated in the Request for Proposals document. Design solutions and other qualitative factors are evaluated and rated, with award going to the firm offering the best qualitative proposal for the established price.
Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) services
means services which provide for the acquisition of technologies or systems of technologies (e.g., computer hardware or software, traffic control devices, communications link, fare payment system, automatic vehicle location system, etc.) that provide or contribute to the provision of one or more ITS user services as defined in the National ITS Architecture.
Modified design-build
means a variation of design-build in which the contracting agency furnishes offerors with partially complete plans. The design-builders role is generally limited to the completion of the design and construction of the project.
Organizational conflict of interest
means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the owner, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage.
Preliminary design
defines the general project location and design concepts. It includes, but is not limited to, preliminary engineering and other activities and analyses, such as environmental assessments, topographic surveys, metes and bounds surveys, geotechnical investigations, hydrologic analysis, hydraulic analysis, utility engineering, traffic studies, financial plans, revenue estimates, hazardous materials assessments, general estimates of the types and quantities of materials, and other work needed to establish parameters for the final design. Prior to completion of the NEPA review process, any such preliminary engineering and other activities and analyses must not materially affect the objective consideration of alternatives in the NEPA review process.
Prequalification
means the contracting agency's process for determining whether a firm is fundamentally qualified to compete for a certain project or class of projects. The prequalification process may be based on financial, management and other types of qualitative data. Prequalification should be distinguished from short listing.
Price proposal
means the price submitted by the offeror to provide the required design and construction services.
Price reasonableness
means the determination that the price of the work for any project or series of projects is not excessive and is a fair and reasonable price for the services to be performed.
Proposal modification
means a change made to a proposal before the solicitation closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award.
Proposal revision
means a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a contracting officer, as the result of negotiations.
Public-private agreement
means an agreement between a public agency and a private party involving design and construction of transportation improvements by the private party to be paid for in whole or in part by Federal-aid highway funds. The agreement may also provide for project financing, at-risk equity investment, operations, or maintenance of the project.
Qualified project
means any design-build project (including intermodal projects) funded under Title 23, United States Code, which meets the requirements of this part and for which the contracting agency deems to be appropriate on the basis of project delivery time, cost, construction schedule, or quality.
Request for Proposals (RFP)
means the document that describes the procurement process, forms the basis for the final proposals and may potentially become an element in the contract.
Request for Qualification (RFQ)
means the document issued by the owner in Phase I of the two-phased selection
process. It typically describes the project in enough detail to let potential offerors determine if they wish to compete and forms the basis for requesting qualifications submissions from which the most highly qualified offerors can be identified.
Short listing
means the narrowing of the field of offerors through the selection of the most qualified offerors who have responded to an RFQ.
Single-phase selection process
means a procurement process where price and/or technical proposals are submitted in response to an RFP. Short listing is not used.
Solicitation
means a public notification of an owner's need for information, qualifications, or proposals related to identified services.
Stipend
means a monetary amount sometimes paid to unsuccessful offerors.
Technical proposal
means that portion of a design-build proposal which contains design solutions and other qualitative factors that are provided in response to the RFP document.
Tradeoff
means an analysis technique involving a comparison of price and non-price factors to determine the best value when considering the selection of other than the lowest priced proposal.
Two-phase selection process
means a procurement process in which the first phase consists of short listing (based on qualifications submitted in response to an RFQ) and the second phase consists of the submission of price and technical proposals in response to an RFP.
Weakness
means a flaw in the proposal that increases the risk of unsuccessful contract performance. A significant weakness in the proposal is a flaw that appreciably increases the risk of unsuccessful contract performance.
Weighted criteria process
means a form of best value selection in which maximum point values are pre-established for qualitative and price components, and award is based upon high total points earned by the offerors.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 45336, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 636.104
Does this part apply to all Federal-aid design-build projects?
The provisions of this part apply to all Federal-aid design-build projects within the highway right-of-way or linked to a Federal-aid highway project (
i.e.,
the project would not exist without another Federal-aid highway project). Projects that are not located within the highway right-of-way, and not linked to a Federal-aid highway project may utilize State-approved procedures.
§ 636.105
Is the FHWA requiring the use of design-build?
No, the FHWA is neither requiring nor promoting the use of the design-build contracting method. The design-build contracting technique is optional.
§ 636.106
[Reserved]
§ 636.107
May contracting agencies use geographic preference in Federal-aid design-build or public-private partnership projects?
No. Contracting agencies must not use geographic preferences (including contractual provisions, preferences or incentives for hiring, contracting, proposing, or bidding) on Federal-aid highway projects, even though the contracting agency may be subject to statutorily or administratively imposed in-State or local geographical preferences in the evaluation and award of such projects.
[72 FR 45336, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 636.108
[Reserved]
§ 636.109
How does the NEPA process relate to the design-build procurement process?
The purpose of this section is to ensure that there is an objective NEPA process, that public officials and citizens have the necessary environmental impact information for federally funded actions before actions are taken, and that design-build proposers do not assume an unnecessary amount of risk in the event the NEPA process results in a significant change in the proposal, and that the amount payable by the
contracting agency to the design-builder does not include significant contingency as the result of risk placed on the design-builder associated with significant changes in the project definition arising out of the NEPA process. Therefore, with respect to the design-build procurement process:
(a) The contracting agency may:
(1) Issue an RFQ prior to the conclusion of the NEPA process as long as the RFQ informs proposers of the general status of NEPA review;
(2) Issue an RFP after the conclusion of the NEPA process;
(3) Issue an RFP prior to the conclusion of the NEPA process as long as the RFP informs proposers of the general status of the NEPA process and that no commitment will be made as to any alternative under evaluation in the NEPA process, including the no-build alternative;
(4) Proceed with the award of a design-build contract prior to the conclusion of the NEPA process;
(5) Issue notice to proceed with preliminary design pursuant to a design-build contract that has been awarded prior to the completion of the NEPA process; and
(6) Allow a design-builder to proceed with final design and construction for any projects, or portions thereof, for which the NEPA process has been completed.
(b) If the contracting agency proceeds to award a design-build contract prior to the conclusion of the NEPA process, then:
(1) The contracting agency may permit the design-builder to proceed with preliminary design;
(2) The contracting agency may permit any design and engineering activities to be undertaken for the purposes of defining the project alternatives and completing the NEPA alternatives analysis and review process; complying with other related environmental laws and regulations; supporting agency coordination, public involvement, permit applications, or development of mitigation plans; or developing the design of the preferred alternative to a higher level of detail when the lead agencies agree that it is warranted in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139(f)(4)(D);
(3) The design-build contract must include appropriate provisions preventing the design-builder from proceeding with final design activities and physical construction prior to the completion of the NEPA process (contract hold points or another method of issuing multi-step approvals must be used);
(4) The design-build contract must include appropriate provisions ensuring that no commitments are made to any alternative being evaluated in the NEPA process and that the comparative merits of all alternatives presented in the NEPA document, including the no-build alternative, will be evaluated and fairly considered;
(5) The design-build contract must include appropriate provisions ensuring that all environmental and mitigation measures identified in the NEPA document will be implemented;
(6) The design-builder must not prepare the NEPA document or have any decisionmaking responsibility with respect to the NEPA process;
(7) Any consultants who prepare the NEPA document must be selected by and subject to the exclusive direction and control of the contracting agency;
(8) The design-builder may be requested to provide information about the project and possible mitigation actions, and its work product may be considered in the NEPA analysis and included in the record; and
(9) The design-build contract must include termination provisions in the event that the no-build alternative is selected.
(c) The contracting agency must receive prior FHWA concurrence before issuing the RFP, awarding a design-build contract and proceeding with preliminary design work under the design-build contract. Should the contracting agency proceed with any of the activities specified in this section before the completion of the NEPA process (with the exception of preliminary design, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section), the FHWA's concurrence merely constitutes the FHWA approval that any such activities complies with Federal requirements and does not constitute project authorization or obligate Federal funds.
(d) The FHWA's authorization and obligation of preliminary engineering and other preconstruction funds prior to the completion of the NEPA process is limited to preliminary design and such additional activities as may be necessary to complete the NEPA process. After the completion of the NEPA process, the FHWA may issue an authorization to proceed with final design and construction and obligate Federal funds for such purposes.
[72 FR 45337, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 636.110
What procedures may be used for solicitations and receipt of proposals?
You may use your own procedures for the solicitation and receipt of proposals and information including the following:
(a) Exchanges with industry before receipt of proposals;
(b) RFQ, RFP and contract format;
(c) Solicitation schedules;
(d) Lists of forms, documents, exhibits, and other attachments;
(e) Representations and instructions;
(f) Advertisement and amendments;
(g) Handling proposals and information; and
(h) Submission, modification, revisions and withdrawal of proposals.
§ 636.111
Can oral presentations be used during the procurement process?
(a) Yes, the use of oral presentations as a substitute for portions of a written proposal can be effective in streamlining the source selection process. Oral presentations may occur at any time in the acquisition process, however, you must comply with the appropriate State procurement integrity standards.
(b) Oral presentations may substitute for, or augment, written information. You must maintain a record of oral presentations to document what information you relied upon in making the source selection decision. You may decide the appropriate method and level of detail for the record (e.g., videotaping, audio tape recording, written record, contracting agency notes, copies of offeror briefing slides or presentation notes). A copy of the record should be placed in the contract file and may be provided to offerors upon request.
§ 636.112
May stipends be used?
At your discretion, you may elect to pay a stipend to unsuccessful offerors who have submitted responsive proposals. The decision to do so should be based on your analysis of the estimated proposal development costs and the anticipated degree of competition during the procurement process.
§ 636.113
Is the stipend amount eligible for Federal participation?
(a) Yes, stipends are eligible for Federal-aid participation. Stipends are recommended on large projects where there is substantial opportunity for innovation and the cost of submitting a proposal is significant. On such projects, stipends are used to:
(1) Encourage competition;
(2) Compensate unsuccessful offerors for a portion of their costs (usually one-third to one-half of the estimated proposal development cost); and
(3) Ensure that smaller companies are not put at a competitive disadvantage.
(b) Unless prohibited by State law, you may retain the right to use ideas from unsuccessful offerors if they accept stipends. If stipends are used, the RFP should describe the process for distributing the stipend to qualifying offerors. The acceptance of any stipend must be optional on the part of the unsuccessful offeror to the design-build proposal.
(c) If you intend to incorporate the ideas from unsuccessful offerors into the same contract on which they unsuccessfully submitted a proposal, you must clearly provide notice of your intent to do so in the RFP.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 77502, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 636.114
What factors should be considered in risk allocation?
(a) You may consider, identify, and allocate the risks in the RFP document and define these risks in the contract. Risk should be allocated with consideration given to the party who is in the best position to manage and control a given risk or the impact of a given risk.
(b) Risk allocation will vary according to the type of project and location, however, the following factors should be considered:
(1) Governmental risks, including the potential for delays, modifications, withdrawal, scope changes, or additions that result from multi-level Federal, State, and local participation and sponsorship;
(2) Regulatory compliance risks, including environmental and third-party issues, such as permitting, railroad, and utility company risks;
(3) Construction phase risks, including differing site conditions, traffic control, interim drainage, public access, weather issues, and schedule;
(4) Post-construction risks, including public liability and meeting stipulated performance standards; and
(5) Right-of-way risks including acquisition costs, appraisals, relocation delays, condemnation proceedings, including court costs and others.
§ 636.115
May I meet with industry to gather information concerning the appropriate risk allocation strategies?
(a) Yes, information exchange at an early project stage is encouraged if it facilitates your understanding of the capabilities of potential offerors. However, any exchange of information must be consistent with State procurement integrity requirements. Interested parties include potential offerors, end users, acquisition and supporting personnel, and others involved in the conduct or outcome of the acquisition.
(b) The purpose of exchanging information is to improve the understanding of your requirements and industry capabilities, thereby allowing potential offerors to judge whether or how they can satisfy your requirements, and enhancing your ability to obtain quality supplies and services, including construction, at reasonable prices, and increase efficiency in proposal preparation, proposal evaluation, negotiation, and contract award.
(c) An early exchange of information can identify and resolve concerns regarding the acquisition strategy, including proposed contract type, terms and conditions, and acquisition planning schedules. This also includes the feasibility of the requirement, including performance requirements, statements of work, and data requirements; the suitability of the proposal instructions and evaluation criteria, including the approach for assessing past performance information; the availability of reference documents; and any other industry concerns or questions. Some techniques to promote early exchanges of information are as follows:
(1) Industry or small business conferences;
(2) Public hearings;
(3) Market research;
(4) One-on-one meetings with potential offerors (any meetings that are substantially involved with potential contract terms and conditions should include the contracting officer; also see paragraph (e) of this section regarding restrictions on disclosure of information);
(5) Presolicitation notices;
(6) Draft RFPs;
(7) Request for Information (RFI) ;
(8) Presolicitation or preproposal conferences; and
(9) Site visits.
(d) RFIs may be used when you do not intend to award a contract, but want to obtain price, delivery, other market information, or capabilities for planning purposes. Responses to these notices are not offers and cannot be accepted to form a binding contract. There is no required format for an RFI.
(e) When specific information about a proposed acquisition that would be necessary for the preparation of proposals is disclosed to one or more potential offerors, that information shall be made available to all potential offerors as soon as practicable, but no later than the next general release of information, in order to avoid creating an unfair competitive advantage. Information provided to a particular offeror in response to that offeror's request must not be disclosed if doing so would reveal the potential offeror's confidential business strategy. When a presolicitation or preproposal conference is conducted, materials distributed at the conference should be made available to all potential offerors, upon request.
§ 636.116
What organizational conflict of interest requirements apply to design-build projects?
(a) State statutes or policies concerning organizational conflict of interest should be specified or referenced in the design-build RFQ or RFP document as well as any contract for engineering services, inspection or technical support in the administration of the design-build contract. All design-build solicitations should address the following situations as appropriate:
(1) Consultants and/or sub-consultants who assist the owner in the preparation of a RFP document will not be allowed to participate as an offeror or join a team submitting a proposal in response to the RFP. However, a contracting agency may determine there is not an organizational conflict of interest for a consultant or sub-consultant where:
(i) The role of the consultant or sub-consultant was limited to provision of preliminary design, reports, or similar “low-level” documents that will be incorporated into the RFP, and did not include assistance in development of instructions to offerors or evaluation criteria, or
(ii) Where all documents and reports delivered to the agency by the consultant or sub-consultant are made available to all offerors.
(2) All solicitations for design-build contracts, including related contracts for inspection, administration or auditing services, must include a provision which:
(i) Directs offerors attention to this subpart;
(ii) States the nature of the potential conflict as seen by the owner;
(iii) States the nature of the proposed restraint or restrictions (and duration) upon future contracting activities, if appropriate;
(iv) Depending on the nature of the acquisition, states whether or not the terms of any proposed clause and the application of this subpart to the contract are subject to negotiation; and
(v) Requires offerors to provide information concerning potential organizational conflicts of interest in their proposals. The apparent successful offerors must disclose all relevant facts concerning any past, present or currently planned interests which may present an organizational conflict of interest. Such firms must state how their interests, or those of their chief executives, directors, key project personnel, or any proposed consultant, contractor or subcontractor may result, or could be viewed as, an organizational conflict of interest. The information may be in the form of a disclosure statement or a certification.
(3) Based upon a review of the information submitted, the owner should make a written determination of whether the offeror's interests create an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest and identify any actions that must be taken to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate such conflict. The owner should award the contract to the apparent successful offeror unless an organizational conflict of interest is determined to exist that cannot be avoided, neutralized, or mitigated.
(b) The organizational conflict of interest provisions in this subpart provide minimum standards for STDs to identify, mitigate or eliminate apparent or actual organizational conflicts of interest. To the extent that State-developed organizational conflict of interest standards are more stringent than that contained in this subpart, the State standards prevail.
(c) If the NEPA process has been completed prior to issuing the RFP, the contracting agency may allow a consultant or subconsultant who prepared the NEPA document to submit a proposal in response to the RFP.
(d) If the NEPA process has not been completed prior to issuing the RFP, the contracting agency may allow a subconsultant to the preparer of the NEPA document to participate as an offeror or join a team submitting a proposal in response to the RFP only if the contracting agency releases such subconsultant from further responsibilities with respect to the preparation of the NEPA document.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 45337, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 636.117
What conflict of interest standards apply to individuals who serve as selection team members for the owner?
State laws and procedures governing improper business practices and personal conflicts of interest will apply to the owner's selection team members. In the absence of such State provisions, the requirements of 48 CFR Part 3, Improper Business Practices and Personal Conflicts of Interest, will apply to selection team members.
§ 636.118
Is team switching allowed after contract award?
Where the offeror's qualifications are a major factor in the selection of the successful design-builder, team member switching (adding or switching team members) is discouraged after contract award. However, the owner may use its discretion in reviewing team changes or team enhancement requests on a case-by-case basis. Specific project rules related to changes in team members or changes in personnel within teams should be explicitly stated by the STD in all project solicitations.
§ 636.119
How does this part apply to a project developed under a public-private partnership?
(a) In order for a project being developed under a public-private agreement to be eligible for Federal-aid funding (including traditional Federal-aid funds, direct loans, loan guarantees, lines of credit, or some other form of credit assistance), the contracting agency must have awarded the contract to the public-private entity through a competitive process that complies with applicable State and local laws.
(b) If a contracting agency wishes to utilize traditional Federal-aid funds in a project under a public-private agreement, the applicability of Federal-aid procurement procedures will depend on the nature of the public-private agreement.
(1) If the public-private agreement establishes price, then all subsequent contracts executed by the developer are considered to be subcontracts and are not subject to Federal-aid procurement requirements.
(2) If the public-private agreement does not establish price, the developer is considered to be an agent of the owner, and the developer must follow the appropriate Federal-aid procurement requirements (23 CFR part 172 for engineering service contracts, 23 CFR part 635 for construction contracts and the requirements of this part for design-build contracts) for all prime contracts (not subcontracts).
(c) The STD must ensure such public-private projects comply with all non-procurement requirements of 23 U. S. Code, regardless of the form of the FHWA funding (traditional Federal-aid funding or credit assistance). This includes compliance with all FHWA policies such as environmental and right-of-way requirements and compliance with such construction contracting requirements as Buy America, Davis-Bacon minimum wage rate requirements, for federally funded construction or design-build contracts under the public-private agreement.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 45337, Aug. 14, 2007]

# Subpart B—Selection Procedures, Award Criteria
§ 636.201
What selection procedures and award criteria may be used?
You should consider using two-phase selection procedures for all design-build projects. However, if you do not believe two-phase selection procedures are appropriate for your project (based on the criteria in § 636.202), you may use a single phase selection procedure or the modified-design-build contracting method. The following procedures are available:
Selection procedure
Criteria for using a selection procedure
Award criteria options
(a) Two-Phase Selection Procedures (RFQ followed by RFP)
§ 636.202
Lowest price, Adjusted low-bid (price per quality point), meets criteria/low bid, weighted criteria process, fixed price/best design, best value.
(b) Single Phase (RFP)
Project not meeting the criteria in § 636.202
All of the award criteria in item (a) of this table.
(c) Modified Design-Build (may be one or two phases)
Any project
Lowest price technically acceptable.
§ 636.202
When are two-phase design-build selection procedures appropriate?
You may consider the following criteria in deciding whether two-phase selection procedures are appropriate. A negative response may indicate that two-phase selection procedures are not appropriate.
(a) Are three or more offers anticipated?
(b) Will offerors be expected to perform substantial design work before developing price proposals?
(c) Will offerors incur a substantial expense in preparing proposals?
(d) Have you identified and analyzed other contributing factors, including:
(1) The extent to which you have defined the project requirements?
(2) The time constraints for delivery of the project?
(3) The capability and experience of potential contractors?
(4) Your capability to manage the two-phase selection process?
(5) Other criteria that you may consider appropriate?
§ 636.203
What are the elements of two-phase selection procedures for competitive proposals?
The first phase consists of short listing based on a RFQ. The second phase consists of the receipt and evaluation of price and technical proposals in response to a RFP.
§ 636.204
What items may be included in a phase-one solicitation?
You may consider including the following items in any phase-one solicitation:
(a) The scope of work;
(b) The phase-one evaluation factors and their relative weights, including:
(1) Technical approach (but not detailed design or technical information);
(2) Technical qualifications, such as—
(i) Specialized experience and technical competence;
(ii) Capability to perform (including key personnel); and
(iii) Past performance of the members of the offeror's team (including the architect-engineer and construction members);
(3) Other appropriate factors (excluding cost or price related factors, which are not permitted in phase-one);
(c) Phase-two evaluation factors; and
(d) A statement of the maximum number of offerors that will be short listed to submit phase-two proposals.
§ 636.205
Can past performance be used as an evaluation criteria?
(a) Yes, past performance information is one indicator of an offeror's ability to perform the contract successfully. Past performance information may be used as an evaluation criteria in either phase-one or phase-two solicitations. If you elect to use past performance criteria, the currency and relevance of the information, source of the information, context of the data, and general trends in contractor's performance may be considered.
(b) Describe your approach for evaluating past performance in the solicitation, including your policy for evaluating offerors with no relevant performance history. You should provide offerors an opportunity to identify past or current contracts (including Federal, State, and local government and private) for efforts similar to the current solicitation.
(c) If you elect to request past performance information, the solicitation should also authorize offerors to provide information on problems encountered on the identified contracts and the offeror's corrective actions. You may consider this information, as well as information obtained from any other sources, when evaluating the offeror's past performance. You may use your discretion in determining the relevance of similar past performance information.
(d) The evaluation should take into account past performance information regarding predecessor companies, key personnel who have relevant experience, or subcontractors that will perform major or critical aspects of the requirement when such information is relevant to the current acquisition.
§ 636.206
How do I evaluate offerors who do not have a record of relevant past performance?
In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance.
§ 636.207
Is there a limit on short listed firms?
Normally, three to five firms are short listed, however, the maximum number specified shall not exceed five unless you determine, for that particular solicitation, that a number greater than five is in your interest and is consistent with the purposes and objectives of two-phase design-build contracting.
§ 636.208
May I use my existing prequalification procedures with design-build contracts?
Yes, you may use your existing prequalification procedures for either construction or engineering design firms as a supplement to the procedures in this part.
§ 636.209
What items must be included in a phase-two solicitation?
(a) You must include the requirements for technical proposals and price proposals in the phase-two solicitation. All factors and significant subfactors that will affect contract award and their relative importance must be stated clearly in the solicitation. Use your own procedures for the solicitation as long as it complies the requirements of this part.
(b)(1) At your discretion, you may allow proposers to submit alternative technical concepts (ATCs) in their proposals if:
(i) The ATCs:
(A) Provide an equal or better solution; and
(B) Do not conflict with criteria agreed upon in the environmental decisionmaking process; and
(ii) The RFP document clearly describes your:
(A) Requirements for ATC content, submission, and review;
(B) Procedures for confidential meetings (if used); and
(C) Methods for evaluating ATCs in the proposal review process.
(2) You must maintain the confidentiality of ATCs, except to the extent that disclosure is necessary to maintain compliance with Federal or State permitting and other legal requirements necessary for the delivery of the project. When disclosure is necessary, you must revise the RFP documents by releasing the minimal amount of information necessary to ensure:
(i) Compliance with Federal or State permitting and other legal requirements; and
(ii) All proposers are aware of the revised RFP requirements.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 8266, Feb. 12, 2014]
§ 636.210
What requirements apply to projects which use the modified design-build procedure?
(a) Modified design-build selection procedures (lowest price technically acceptable source selection process) may be used for any project.
(b) The solicitation must clearly state the following:
(1) The identification of evaluation factors and significant subfactors that establish the requirements of acceptability.
(2) That award will be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for non-cost factors.
(c) The contracting agency may forgo a short listing process and advertise for the receipt of proposals from all responsible offerors. The contract is then awarded to the lowest responsive bidder.
(d) Tradeoffs are not permitted, however, you may incorporate cost-plus-time bidding procedures (A + B bidding), lane rental, or other cost-based provisions in such contracts.
(e) Proposals are evaluated for acceptability but not ranked using the non-cost/price factors.
(f) Exchanges may occur (see subpart D of this part).
§ 636.211
When and how should tradeoffs be used?
(a) At your discretion, you may consider the tradeoff technique when it is
desirable to award to other than the lowest priced offeror or other than the highest technically rated offeror.
(b) If you use a tradeoff technique, the following apply:
(1) All evaluation factors and significant subfactors that will affect contract award and their relative importance must be clearly stated in the solicitation; and
(2) The solicitation must also state, at a minimum, whether all evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are—
(i) Significantly more important than cost or price; or
(ii) Approximately equal to cost or price; or
(iii) Significantly less important than cost or price.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002; 68 FR 7922, Feb. 19, 2003]
§ 636.212
To what extent must tradeoff decisions be documented?
When tradeoffs are performed, the source selection records must include the following:
(a) An assessment of each offeror's ability to accomplish the technical requirements; and
(b) A summary, matrix, or quantitative ranking, along with appropriate supporting narrative, of each technical proposal using the evaluation factors.

# Subpart C—Proposal Evaluation Factors
§ 636.301
How should proposal evaluation factors be selected?
(a) The proposal evaluation factors and significant subfactors should be tailored to the acquisition.
(b) Evaluation factors and significant subfactors should:
(1) Represent the key areas of importance and emphasis to be considered in the source selection decision; and
(2) Support meaningful comparison and discrimination between and among competing proposals.
§ 636.302
Are there any limitations on the selection and use of proposal evaluation factors?
(a) The selection of the evaluation factors, significant subfactors and their relative importance are within your broad discretion subject to the following requirements:
(1) You must evaluate price in every source selection where construction is a significant component of the scope of work. However, where the contracting agency elects to release the final RFP and award the design-build contract before the conclusion of the NEPA process (see § 636.109), then the following requirements apply:
(i) It is not necessary to evaluate the total contract price;
(ii) Price must be considered to the extent the contract requires the contracting agency to make any payments to the design-builder for any work performed prior to the completion of the NEPA process and the contracting agency wishes to use Federal-aid highway funds for those activities;
(iii) The evaluation of proposals and award of the contract may be based on qualitative considerations;
(iv) If the contracting agency wishes to use Federal-aid highway funds for final design and construction, the subsequent approval of final design and construction activities will be contingent upon a finding of price reasonableness by the contracting agency;
(v) The determination of price reasonableness for any design-build project funded with Federal-aid highway funds shall be based on at least one of the following methods:
(A) Compliance with the applicable procurement requirements for part 172, 635, or 636, where the contractor providing the final design or construction services, or both, is a person or entity other than the design-builder;
(B) A negotiated price determined on an open-book basis by both the design-builder and contracting agency; or
(C) An independent estimate by the contracting agency based on the price of similar work;
(vi) The contracting agency's finding of price reasonableness is subject to FHWA concurrence.
(2) You must evaluate the quality of the product or service through consideration of one or more non-price evaluation factors. These factors may include (but are not limited to) such criteria as:
(i) Compliance with solicitation requirements;
(ii) Completion schedule (contractual incentives and disincentives for early completion may be used where appropriate); or
(iii) Technical solutions.
(3) At your discretion, you may evaluate past performance, technical experience and management experience (subject to § 636.303(b)).
(b) All factors and significant subfactors that will affect contract award and their relative importance must be stated clearly in the solicitation.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 45338, Aug. 14, 2007]
§ 636.303
May pre-qualification standards be used as proposal evaluation criteria in the RFP?
(a) If you use a prequalification procedure or a two-phase selection procedure to develop a short list of qualified offerors, then pre-qualification criteria should not be included as proposal evaluation criteria.
(b) The proposal evaluation criteria should be limited to the quality, quantity, value and timeliness of the product or service being proposed. However, there may be circumstances where it is appropriate to include prequalification standards as proposal evaluation criteria. Such instances include situations where:
(1) The scope of work involves very specialized technical expertise or specialized financial qualifications; or
(2) Where prequalification procedures or two-phase selection procedures are not used (short listing is not performed).
§ 636.304
What process may be used to rate and score proposals?
(a) Proposal evaluation is an assessment of the offeror's proposal and ability to perform the prospective contract successfully. You must evaluate proposals solely on the factors and subfactors specified in the solicitation.
(b) You may conduct evaluations using any rating method or combination of methods including color or adjectival ratings, numerical weights, and ordinal rankings. The relative strengths, deficiencies, significant weaknesses, and risks supporting proposal evaluation must be documented in the contract file.
§ 636.305
Can price information be provided to analysts who are reviewing technical proposals?
Normally, technical and price proposals are reviewed independently by separate evaluation teams. However, there may be occasions where the same experts needed to review the technical proposals are also needed in the review of the price proposals. This may occur where a limited amount of technical expertise is available to review proposals. Price information may be provided to such technical experts in accordance with your procedures.

# Subpart D—Exchanges
§ 636.401
What types of information exchange may take place prior to the release of the RFP document?
Verbal or written information exchanges (such as in the first-phase of a two-phase selection procedure) must be consistent with State and/or local procurement integrity requirements. See § 636.115(a) for additional details.
§ 636.402
What types of information exchange may take place after the release of the RFP document?
Certain types of information exchange may be desirable at different points after the release of the RFP document. The following table summarizes the types of communications that will be discussed in this subpart. These communication methods are optional.
Type of information exchange
When
Purpose
Parties involved
(a) Clarifications
After receipt of proposals
Used when award without discussions is contemplated. Used to clarify certain aspects of a proposal (resolve minor errors, clerical errors, obtain additional past performance information, etc.)
Any offeror whose proposal is not clear to the contracting agency.
(b) Communications
After receipt of proposals, prior to the establishment of the competitive range
Used to address issues which might prevent a proposal from being placed in the competitive range
Only those offerors whose exclusion from, or inclusion in, the competitive range is uncertain. All offerors whose past performance information is the determining factor preventing them from being placed in the competitive range.
(c) Discussions (see Subpart E of this part)
After receipt of proposals and after the determination of the competitive range
Enhance contracting agency understanding of proposals and offerors understanding of scope of work. Facilitate the evaluation process
Must be held with all offerors in the competitive range.
§ 636.403
What information may be exchanged with a clarification?
(a) You may wish to clarify any aspect of proposals which would enhance your understanding of an offeror's proposal. This includes such information as an offeror's past performance or information regarding adverse past performance to which the offeror has not previously had an opportunity to respond. Clarification exchanges are discretionary. They do not have to be held with any specific number of offerors and do not have to address specific issues.
(b) You may wish to clarify and revise the RFP document through an addenda process in response to questions from potential offerors.
§ 636.404
Can a competitive range be used to limit competition?
If the solicitation notifies offerors that the competitive range can be limited for purposes of efficiency, you may limit the number of proposals to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition. However, you must provide written notice to any offeror whose proposal is no longer considered to be included in the competitive range. Offerors excluded or otherwise eliminated from the competitive range may request a debriefing. Debriefings may be conducted in accordance with your procedures as long as you comply with § 636.514.
§ 636.405
After developing a short list, can I still establish a competitive range?
Yes, if you have developed a short list of firms, you may still establish a competitive range. The short list is based on qualifications criteria. The competitive range is based on the rating of technical and price proposals.
§ 636.406
Are communications allowed prior to establishing the competitive range?
Yes, prior to establishing the competitive range, you may conduct communications to:
(a) Enhance your understanding of proposals;
(b) Allow reasonable interpretation of the proposal; or
(c) Facilitate your evaluation process.
§ 636.407
Am I limited in holding communications with certain firms?
Yes, if you establish a competitive range, you must do the following:
(a) Hold communications with offerors whose past performance information is the determining factor preventing them from being placed within the competitive range;
(b) Address adverse past performance information to which an offeror has not had a prior opportunity to respond; and
(c) Hold communications only with those offerors whose exclusion from, or inclusion in, the competitive range is uncertain.
§ 636.408
Can communications be used to cure proposal deficiencies?
(a) No, communications must not be used to:
(1) Cure proposal deficiencies or material omissions;
(2) Materially alter the technical or cost elements of the proposal; and/or
(3) Otherwise revise the proposal.
(b) Communications may be considered in rating proposals for the purpose of establishing the competitive range.
§ 636.409
Can offerors revise their proposals during communications?
(a) No, communications shall not provide an opportunity for an offeror to revise its proposal, but may address the following:
(1) Ambiguities in the proposal or other concerns (e.g., perceived deficiencies, weaknesses, errors, omissions, or mistakes); and
(2) Information relating to relevant past performance.
(b) Communications must address adverse past performance information to which the offeror has not previously had an opportunity to comment.

# Subpart E—Discussions, Proposal Revisions and Source Selection
§ 636.501
What issues may be addressed in discussions?
In a competitive acquisition, discussions may include bargaining. The term bargaining may include: persuasion, alteration of assumptions and positions, give-and-take, and may apply to price, schedule, technical requirements, type of contract, or other terms of a proposed contract.
§ 636.502
Why should I use discussions?
You should use discussions to maximize your ability to obtain the best value, based on the requirements and the evaluation factors set forth in the solicitation.
§ 636.503
Must I notify offerors of my intent to use/not use discussions?
Yes, in competitive acquisitions, the solicitation must notify offerors of your intent. You should either:
(a) Notify offerors that discussions may or may not be held depending on the quality of the proposals received (except clarifications may be used as described in § 636.401). Therefore, the offeror's initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint; or
(b) Notify offerors of your intent to establish a competitive range and hold discussions.
§ 636.504
If the solicitation indicated my intent was to award contract without discussions, but circumstances change, may I still hold discussions?
Yes, you may still elect to hold discussions when circumstances dictate, as long as the rationale for doing so is documented in the contract file. Such circumstances might include situations where all proposals received have deficiencies, when fair and reasonable prices are not offered, or when the cost or price offered is not affordable.
§ 636.505
Must a contracting agency establish a competitive range if it intends to have discussions with offerors?
Yes, if discussions are held, they must be conducted with all offerors in the competitive range. If you wish to hold discussions and do not formally establish a competitive range, then you must hold discussions with all responsive offerors.
§ 636.506
What issues must be covered in discussions?
(a) Discussions should be tailored to each offeror's proposal. Discussions must cover significant weaknesses, deficiencies, and other aspects of a proposal (such as cost or price, technical approach, past performance, and terms and conditions) that could be altered or explained to enhance materially the proposal's potential for award. You may use your judgment in setting limits for the scope and extent of discussions.
(b) In situations where the solicitation stated that evaluation credit would be given for technical solutions exceeding any mandatory minimums, you may hold discussions regarding increased performance beyond any mandatory minimums, and you may suggest to offerors that have exceeded any mandatory minimums (in ways that are not integral to the design), that their proposals would be more competitive if the excesses were removed and the offered price decreased.
§ 636.507
What subjects are prohibited in discussions, communications and clarifications with offerors?
You may not engage in conduct that:
(a) Favors one offeror over another;
(b) Reveals an offeror's technical solution, including unique technology, innovative and unique uses of commercial items, or any information that would compromise an offeror's intellectual property to another offeror;
(c) Reveals an offerors price without that offeror's permission;
(d) Reveals the names of individuals providing reference information about an offeror's past performance; or
(e) Knowingly furnish source selection information which could be in violation of State procurement integrity standards.
§ 636.508
Can price or cost be an issue in discussions?
You may inform an offeror that its price is considered to be too high, or too low, and reveal the results of the analysis supporting that conclusion. At your discretion, you may indicate to all offerors your estimated cost for the project.
§ 636.509
Can offerors revise their proposals as a result of discussions?
(a) Yes, you may request or allow proposal revisions to clarify and document understandings reached during discussions. At the conclusion of discussions, each offeror shall be given an opportunity to submit a final proposal revision.
(b) You must establish a common cut-off date only for receipt of final proposal revisions. Requests for final proposal revisions shall advise offerors that the final proposal revisions shall be in writing and that the contracting agency intends to make award without obtaining further revisions.
§ 636.510
Can the competitive range be further defined once discussions have begun?
Yes, you may further narrow the competitive range if an offeror originally in the competitive range is no longer considered to be among the most highly rated offerors being considered for award. That offeror may be eliminated from the competitive range whether or not all material aspects of the proposal have been discussed, or whether or not the offeror has been afforded an opportunity to submit a proposal revision. You must provide an offeror excluded from the competitive range with a written determination and notice that proposal revisions will not be considered.
§ 636.511
Can there be more than one round of discussions?
Yes, but only at the conclusion of discussions will the offerors be requested to submit a final proposal revision, also called best and final offer (BAFO). Thus, regardless of the length or number of discussions, there will be only one request for a revised proposal (
i.e.,
only one BAFO).
§ 636.512
What is the basis for the source selection decision?
(a) You must base the source selection decision on a comparative assessment of proposals against all selection criteria in the solicitation. While you may use reports and analyses prepared by others, the source selection decision shall represent your independent judgment.
(b) The source selection decision shall be documented, and the documentation shall include the rationale for any business judgments and tradeoffs made or relied on, including benefits associated with additional costs. Although the rationale for the selection decision must be documented, that documentation need not quantify the tradeoffs that led to the decision.
§ 636.513
Are limited negotiations allowed prior to contract execution?
(a) Yes, after the source selection but prior to contract execution, you may conduct limited negotiations with the selected design-builder to clarify any remaining issues regarding scope, schedule, financing or any other information provided by that offeror. You must comply with the provisions of § 636.507 in the exchange of this information.
(b) Limited negotiations conducted under this section may include negotiations necessary to incorporate the ideas and concepts from unsuccessful offerors into the contract if a stipend is
offered by the contracting agency and accepted by the unsuccessful offeror and if the requirements of section 636.113 are met.
[67 FR 75926, Dec. 10, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 77502, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 636.514
How may I provide notifications and debriefings?
You may provide pre-award or post-award notifications in accordance with State approved procedures. If an offeror requests a debriefing, you may provide pre-award or post-award debriefings in accordance with State approved procedures.
Pt. 637

# PART 637—CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND APPROVAL
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Quality Assurance Procedures for Construction
Sec.
637.201
Purpose.
637.203
Definitions.
637.205
Policy.
637.207
Quality assurance program.
637.209
Laboratory and sampling and testing personnel qualifications.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 637—Guide Letter of Certification by State Engineer

# Authority:
Sec. 1307, Pub. L. 105-178, 112 Stat. 107; 23 U.S.C. 109, 114, and 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
60 FR 33717, June 29, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 637 appear at 67 FR 75934, Dec. 10, 2002.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Quality Assurance Procedures for Construction
§ 637.201
Purpose.
To prescribe policies, procedures, and guidelines to assure the quality of materials and construction in all Federal-aid highway projects on the National Highway System.
§ 637.203
Definitions.
Acceptance program.
All factors that comprise the State transportation department's (STD) determination of the quality of the product as specified in the contract requirements. These factors include verification sampling, testing, and inspection and may include results of quality control sampling and testing.
Independent assurance program.
Activities that are an unbiased and independent evaluation of all the sampling and testing procedures used in the acceptance program. Test procedures used in the acceptance program which are performed in the STD's central laboratory would not be covered by an independent assurance program.
Proficiency samples.
Homogeneous samples that are distributed and tested by two or more laboratories. The test results are compared to assure that the laboratories are obtaining the same results.
Qualified laboratories.
Laboratories that are capable as defined by appropriate programs established by each STD. As a minimum, the qualification program shall include provisions for checking test equipment and the laboratory shall keep records of calibration checks.
Qualified sampling and testing personnel.
Personnel who are capable as defined by appropriate programs established by each STD.
Quality assurance.
All those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide confidence that a product or service will satisfy given requirements for quality.
Quality control.
All contractor/vendor operational techniques and activities that are performed or conducted to fulfill the contract requirements.
Random sample.
A sample drawn from a lot in which each increment in the lot has an equal probability of being chosen.
Vendor.
A supplier of project-produced material that is not the contractor.
Verification sampling and testing.
Sampling and testing performed to validate the quality of the product.
§ 637.205
Policy.
(a)
Quality assurance program.
Each STD shall develop a quality assurance program which will assure that the materials and workmanship incorporated
into each Federal-aid highway construction project on the NHS are in conformity with the requirements of the approved plans and specifications, including approved changes. The program must meet the criteria in § 637.207 and be approved by the FHWA.
(b)
STD capabilities.
The STD shall maintain an adequate, qualified staff to administer its quality assurance program. The State shall also maintain a central laboratory. The State's central laboratory shall meet the requirements in § 637.209(a)(2).
(c)
Independent assurance program.
Independent assurance samples and tests or other procedures shall be performed by qualified sampling and testing personnel employed by the STD or its designated agent.
(d)
Verification sampling and testing.
The verification sampling and testing are to be performed by qualified testing personnel employed by the STD or its designated agent, excluding the contractor and vendor.
(e)
Random samples.
All samples used for quality control and verification sampling and testing shall be random samples.
§ 637.207
Quality assurance program.
(a) Each STD's quality assurance program shall provide for an acceptance program and an independent assurance (IA) program consisting of the following:
(1) Acceptance program.
(i) Each STD's acceptance program shall consist of the following:
(A) Frequency guide schedules for verification sampling and testing which will give general guidance to personnel responsible for the program and allow adaptation to specific project conditions and needs.
(B) Identification of the specific location in the construction or production operation at which verification sampling and testing is to be accomplished.
(C) Identification of the specific attributes to be inspected which reflect the quality of the finished product.
(ii) Quality control sampling and testing results may be used as part of the acceptance decision provided that:
(A) The sampling and testing has been performed by qualified laboratories and qualified sampling and testing personnel.
(B) The quality of the material has been validated by the verification sampling and testing. The verification testing shall be performed on samples that are taken independently of the quality control samples.
(C) The quality control sampling and testing is evaluated by an IA program.
(iii) If the results from the quality control sampling and testing are used in the acceptance program, the STD shall establish a dispute resolution system. The dispute resolution system shall address the resolution of discrepancies occurring between the verification sampling and testing and the quality control sampling and testing. The dispute resolution system may be administered entirely within the STD.
(iv) In the case of a design-build project on the National Highway System, warranties may be used where appropriate. See 23 CFR 635.413(e) for specific requirements.
(2) The IA program shall evaluate the qualified sampling and testing personnel and the testing equipment. The program shall cover sampling procedures, testing procedures, and testing equipment. Each IA program shall include a schedule of frequency for IA evaluation. The schedule may be established based on either a project basis or a system basis. The frequency can be based on either a unit of production or on a unit of time.
(i) The testing equipment shall be evaluated by using one or more of the following: Calibration checks, split samples, or proficiency samples.
(ii) Testing personnel shall be evaluated by observations and split samples or proficiency samples.
(iii) A prompt comparison and documentation shall be made of test results obtained by the tester being evaluated and the IA tester. The STD shall develop guidelines including tolerance limits for the comparison of test results.
(iv) If the STD uses the system approach to the IA program, the STD shall provide an annual report to the FHWA summarizing the results of the IA program.
(3) The preparation of a materials certification, conforming in substance to appendix A of this subpart, shall be submitted to the FHWA Division Administrator for each construction project which is subject to FHWA construction oversight activities.
(b) In the case of a design-build project funded under title 23, U.S. Code, the STD's quality assurance program should consider the specific contractual needs of the design-build project. All provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are applicable to design-build projects. In addition, the quality assurance program may include the following:
(1) Reliance on a combination of contractual provisions and acceptance methods;
(2) Reliance on quality control sampling and testing as part of the acceptance decision, provided that adequate verification of the design-builder's quality control sampling and testing is performed to ensure that the design-builder is providing the quality of materials and construction required by the contract documents.
(3) Contractual provisions which require the operation of the completed facility for a specific time period.
[60 FR 33717, June 29, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 75934, Dec. 10, 2002]
§ 637.209
Laboratory and sampling and testing personnel qualifications.
(a) Laboratories.
(1) After June 29, 2000, all contractor, vendor, and STD testing used in the acceptance decision shall be performed by qualified laboratories.
(2) After June 30, 1997, each STD shall have its central laboratory accredited by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.
(3) After June 29, 2000, any non-STD designated laboratory which performs IA sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.
(4) After June 29, 2000, any non-STD laboratory that is used in dispute resolution sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.
(5) After September 24, 2009, laboratories that perform crash testing for acceptance of roadside hardware by the FHWA shall be accredited by a laboratory accreditation body that is recognized by the National Cooperation for Laboratory Accreditation (NACLA), is a signatory to the Asia Pacific Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (APLAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA), is a signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA), or another accreditation body acceptable to FHWA.
(b) Sampling and testing personnel. After June 29, 2000, all sampling and testing data to be used in the acceptance decision or the IA program shall be executed by qualified sampling and testing personnel.
(c) Conflict of interest. In order to avoid an appearance of a conflict of interest, any qualified non-STD laboratory shall perform only one of the following types of testing on the same project: Verification testing, quality control testing, IA testing, or dispute resolution testing.
[60 FR 33717, June 29, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 54212, Sept. 24, 2007]
Pt. 637, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 637—Guide Letter of Certification by State Engineer
Date
Project No.
This is to certify that:
The results of the tests used in the acceptance program indicate that the materials incorporated in the construction work, and the construction operations controlled by sampling and testing, were in conformity with the approved plans and specifications. (The following sentence should be added if the IA testing frequencies are based on project quantities. All independent assurance samples and tests are within tolerance limits of the samples and tests that are used in the acceptance program.)
Exceptions to the plans and specifications are explained on the back hereof (or on attached sheet).
Director of STD Laboratory or other appropriate STD Official.
Pt. 645

# PART 645—UTILITIES

# Subpart A—Utility Relocations, Adjustments, and Reimbursement
Sec.
645.101
Purpose.
645.103
Applicability.
645.105
Definitions.
645.107
Eligibility.
645.109
Preliminary engineering.
645.111
Right-of-way.
645.113
Agreements and authorizations.
645.115
Construction.
645.117
Cost development and reimbursement.
645.119
Alternate procedure.

# Subpart B—Accommodation of Utilities
645.201
Purpose.
645.203
Applicability.
645.205
Policy.
645.207
Definitions.
645.209
General requirements.
645.211
State transportation department accommodation policies.
645.213
Use and occupancy agreements (permits).
645.215
Approvals.

# Subpart C—Broadband Infrastructure Deployment
645.301
Purpose.
645.303
Applicability.
645.305
Definitions.
645.307
General requirements.
645.309
Limitations.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 101, 109, 111, 116, 123, and 315; 47 U.S.C. 1504; 23 CFR 1.23 and 1.27; 49 CFR 1.48(b); and E.O. 11990, 42 FR 26961 (May 24, 1977).

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 645 appear at 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000.

# Subpart A—Utility Relocations, Adjustments, and Reimbursement

# Source:
50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 645.101
Purpose.
To prescribe the policies, procedures, and reimbursement provisions for the adjustment and relocation of utility facilities on Federal-aid and direct Federal projects.
§ 645.103
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this regulation apply to reimbursement claimed by a State transportation department (STD) for costs incurred under an approved and properly executed transportation department (TD)/utility agreement and for payment of costs incurred under all Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)/utility agreements.
(b) Procedures on the accommodation of utilities are set forth in 23 CFR part 645, subpart B, Accommodation of Utilities.
(c) When the lines or facilities to be relocated or adjusted due to highway construction are privately owned, located on the owner's land, devoted exclusively to private use and not directly or indirectly serving the public, the provisions of the FHWA's right-of-way procedures in 23 CFR 710.203, apply. When applicable, under the foregoing conditions, the provisions of this regulation may be used as a guide to establish a cost-to-cure.
(d) The FHWA's reimbursement to the STD will be governed by State law (or State regulation) or the provisions of this regulation, whichever is more restrictive. When State law or regulation differs from this regulation, a determination shall be made by the STD subject to the concurrence of the FHWA as to which standards will govern, and the record documented accordingly, for each relocation encountered.
(e) For direct Federal projects, all references herein to the STD or TD are inapplicable, and it is intended that the FHWA be considered in the relative position of the STD or TD.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 64 FR 71289, Dec. 21, 1999]
§ 645.105
Definitions.
For the purposes of this regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
Authorization
—for Federal-aid projects authorization to the STD by the FHWA, or for direct Federal projects authorization to the utility by the FHWA, to proceed with any phase of a project. The date of authorization establishes the date of eligibility for Federal funds to participate in the costs incurred on that phase of work.
Betterment
—any upgrading of the facility being relocated that is not attributable to the highway construction and is made solely for the benefit of and at the election of the utility.
Cost of relocation
—the entire amount paid by or on behalf of the utility properly attributable to the relocation after deducting from that amount any increase in value of the new facility, and any salvage derived from the old facility.
Cost of Removal
—the amount expended to remove utility property including the cost of demolishing, dismantling, removing, transporting, or otherwise disposing of utility property and of cleaning up to leave the site in a neat and presentable condition.
Cost of salvage
—the amount expended to restore salvaged utility property to usable condition after its removal.
Direct Federal projects
—highway projects such as projects under the Federal Lands Highways Program which are under the direct administration of the FHWA.
Indirect or overhead costs
—those costs which are not readily identifiable with one specific task, job, or work order. Such costs may include indirect labor, social security taxes, insurance, stores expense, and general office expenses. Costs of this nature generally are distributed or allocated to the applicable job or work orders, other accounts and other functions to which they relate. Distribution and allocation is made on a uniform basis which is reasonable, equitable, and in accordance with generally accepted cost accounting practices.
Relocation
—the adjustment of utility facilities required by the highway project. It includes removing and reinstalling the facility, including necessary temporary facilities, acquiring necessary right-of-way on the new location, moving, rearranging or changing the type of existing facilities and taking any necessary safety and protective measures. It shall also mean constructing a replacement facility that is both functionally equivalent to the existing facility and necessary for continuous operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence of highway construction.
Salvage value
—the amount received from the sale of utility property that has been removed or the amount at which the recovered material is charged to the utility's accounts, if retained for reuse.
State transportation department
—the transportation department of one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Transportation department(TD)
—that department, commission, board, or official of any State or political subdivison thereof, charged by its law with the responsibility for highway administration.
Use and occupancy agreement
—the document (written agreement or permit) by which the TD approves the use and occupancy of highway right-of-way by utility facilities or private lines.
Utility
—a privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned line, facility or system for producing, transmitting, or distributing communications, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste, storm water not connected with highway drainage, or any other similar commodity, including any fire or police signal system or street lighting system, which directly or indirectly serves the public. The term utility shall also mean the utility company inclusive of any wholly owned or controlled subsidiary.
Work order system
—a procedure for accumulating and recording into separate accounts of a utility all costs to the utility in connection with any change in its system or plant.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.107
Eligibility.
(a) When requested by the STD, Federal funds may participate, subject to the provisions of § 645.103(d) of this part and at the pro rata share applicable, in an amount actually paid by an TD for the costs of utility relocations. Federal funds may participate in safety corrective measures made under the provisions of § 645.107(k) of this part. Federal funds may also participate for relocations necessitated by the actual construction of highway project made under one or more of the following conditions when:
(1) The STD certifies that the utility has the right of occupancy in its existing location because it holds the fee, an easement, or other real property interest, the damaging or taking of which is compensable in eminent domain,
(2) The utility occupies privately or publicly owned land, including public road or street right-of-way, and the STD certifies that the payment by the TD is made pursuant to a law authorizing such payment in conformance with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 123, and/or
(3) The utility occupies publicy owned land, including public road and street right-of-way, and is owned by a public agency or political subdivision of the State, and is not required by law or agreement to move at its own expense, and the STD certifies that the TD has the legal authority or obligation to make such payments.
(b) On projects which the STD has the authority to participate in project costs, Federal funds may not participate in payments made by a political subdivision for relocation of utility facilities, other than those proposed under the provisions of § 645.107(k) of this part, when State law prohibits the STD from making payment for relocation of utility facilities.
(c) On projects which the STD does not have the authority to participate in project costs, Federal funds may participate in payments made by a political subdivision for relocation of utility facilities necessitated by the actual construction of a highway project when the STD certifies that such payment is based upon the provisions of § 645.107(a) of this part and does not violate the terms of a use and occupancy agreement, or legal contract, between the utility and the TD or for utility safety corrective measures under the provisions of § 645.107(k) of this part.
(d) Federal funds are not eligible to participate in any costs for which the utility contributes or repays the TD, except for utilities owned by the political subdivision on projects which qualify under the provisions of § 645.107(c) of this part in which case the costs of the utility are considered to be costs of the TD.
(e) The FHWA may deny Federal fund participation in any payments made by a TD for the relocation of utility facilities when such payments do not constitute a suitable basis for Federal fund participation under the provisions of title 23 U.S.C.
(f) The rights of any public agency or political subdivision of a State under contract, franchise, or other instrument or agreement with the utility, pertaining to the utility's use and occupancy of publicly owned land, including public road and street right-of-way, shall be considered the rights of the STD in the absence of State law to the contrary.
(g) In lieu of the individual certifications required by § 645.107(a) and (c), the STD may file a statement with the FHWA setting forth the conditions under which the STD will make payments for the relocation of utility facilities. The FHWA may approve Federal fund participation in utility relocations proposed by the STD under the conditions of the statement when the FHWA has made an affirmative finding that such statement and conditions form a suitable basis for Federal fund participation under the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 123.
(h) Federal funds may not participate in the cost of relocations of utility facilities made solely for the benefit or convenience of a utility, its contractor, or a highway contractor.
(i) When the advance installation of new utility facilities crossing or otherwise occupying the proposed right-of-way of a planned highway project is underway, or scheduled to be underway, prior to the time such right-of-way is purchased by or under control of the TD, arrangements should be made for such facilities to be installed in a manner that will meet the requirements of the planned highway project. Federal funds are eligible to participate in the additional cost incurred by the utility that are attributable to, and in accommodation of, the highway project provided such costs are incurred subsequent to authorization of the work by the FHWA. Subject to the other provisions of this regulation, Federal participation may be approved under the foregoing circumstances
when it is demonstrated that the action taken is necessary to protect the public interest and the adjustment of the facility is necessary by reason of the actual construction of the highway project.
(j) Federal funds are eligible to participate in the costs of preliminary engineering and allied services for utilities, the acquisition of replacement right-of-way for utilities, and the physical construction work associated with utility relocations. Such costs must be incurred by or on behalf of a utility after the date the work is included in an approved program and after the FHWA has authorized the STD to proceed in accordance with 23 CFR part 630, subpart A, Federal-Aid Programs Approval and Project Authorization.
(k) Federal funds may participate in projects solely for the purpose of implementing safety corrective measures to reduce the roadside hazards of utility facilities to the highway user. Safety corrective measures should be developed in accordance with the provisions of 23 CFR 645.209(k).
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (g) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0515)
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 24932, July 1, 1988]
§ 645.109
Preliminary engineering.
(a) As mutually agreed to by the TD and utility, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, preliminary engineering activities associated with utility relocation work may be done by:
(1) The TD's or utility's engineering forces;
(2) An engineering consultant selected by the TD, after consultation with the utility, the contract to be administered by the TD; or,
(3) An engineering consultant selected by the utility, with the approval of the TD, the contract to be administered by the utility.
(b) When a utility is not adequately staffed to pursue the necessary preliminary engineering and related work for the utility relocation, Federal funds may participate in the amount paid to engineers, architects, and others for required engineering and allied services provided such amounts are not based on a percentage of the cost of relocation. When Federal participation is requested by the STD in the cost of such services, the utility and its consultant shall agree in writing as to the services to be provided and the fees and arrangements for the services. Federal funds may participate in the cost of such services performed under existing written continuing contracts when it is demonstrated that such work is performed regularly for the utility in its own work and that the costs are reasonable.
(c) The procedures in 23 CFR part 172, Administration of Engineering and Design Related Service Contracts, may be used as a guide for reviewing proposed consultant contracts.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 34850, July 5, 1995; 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.111
Right-of-way.
(a) Federal participation may be approved for the cost of replacement right-of-way provided:
(1) The utility has the right of occupancy in its existing location beause it holds the fee, an easement, or another real property interest, the damaging or taking of which is compensable in eminent domain, or the acquisition is made in the interest of project economy or is necessary to meet the requirements of the highway project, and
(2) There will be no charge to the project for that portion of the utility's existing right-of-way being transferred to the TD for highway purposes.
(b) The utility shall determine and make a written valuation of the replacement right-of-way that it acquires in order to justify amounts paid for such right-of-way. This written valuation shall be accomplished prior to negotiation for acquisition.
(c) Acquisition of replacement right-of-way by the TD on behalf of a utility or acquisition of nonoperating real property from a utility shall be in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
) and applicable right-of-way procedures in 23 CFR 710.203.
(d) When the utility has the right-of-occupancy in its existing location because it holds the fee, an easement, or another real property interest, and it is not necessary by reason of the highway construction to adjust or replace the facilities located thereon, the taking of and damage to the utility's real property, including the disposal or removal of such facilities, may be considered a right-of-way transaction in accordance with provisions of the applicable right-of-way procedures in 23 CFR 710.203.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 64 FR 71289, Dec. 21, 1999]
§ 645.113
Agreements and authorizations.
(a) On Federal-aid and direct Federal projects involving utility relocations, the utility and the TD shall agree in writing on their separate responsibilities for financing and accomplishing the relocation work. When Federal participation is requested, the agreement shall incorporate this regulation by reference and designate the method to be used for performing the work (by contract or force account) and for developing relocation costs. The method proposed by the utility for developing relocation costs must be acceptable to both the TD and the FHWA. The preferred method for the development of relocation costs by a utility is on the basis of actual direct and related indirect costs accumulated in accordance with a work order accounting procedure prescribed by the applicable Federal or State regulatory body.
(b) When applicable, the written agreement shall specify the terms and amounts of any contribution or repayments made or to be made by the utility to the TD in connection with payments by the TD to the utility under the provisions of § 645.107 of this regulation.
(c) The agreement shall be supported by plans, specifications when required, and itemized cost estimates of the work agreed upon, including appropriate credits to the project, and shall be sufficiently informative and complete to provide the TD and the FHWA with a clear description of the work required.
(d) When the relocation involves both work to be done at the TD's expense and work to be done at the expense of the utility, the written agreement shall state the share to be borne by each party.
(e) In the event there are changes in the scope of work, extra work or major changes in the planned work covered by the approved agreement, plans, and estimates, Federal participation shall be limited to costs covered by a modification of the agreement, a written change, or extra work order approved by the TD and the FHWA.
(f) When proposed utility relocation and adjustment work on a project for a specific utility company can be clearly defined and the cost can be accurately estimated, the FHWA may approve an agreement between the TD and the utility company for a lump-sum payment without later confirmation by audit of actual costs.
(g) Except as otherwise provided by § 645.113(h), authorization by the FHWA to the STD to proceed with the physical relocation of a utility's facilities may be given after:
(1) The utility relocation work, or the right-of-way, or physical construction phase of the highway construction work is included in an approved Statewide transportation improvement program,
(2) The appropriate environmental evaluation and public hearing procedures required by 23 CFR part 771, Environmental Impact and Related Procedures, have been satisfied.
(3) The FHWA has reviewed and approved the plans, estimates, and proposed or executed agreements for the utility work and is furnished a schedule for accomplishing the work.
(h) The FHWA may authorize the physical relocation of utility facilities before the requirements of § 645.113(g)(2) are satisfied when the relocation or adjustment of utility facilities meets the requirements of § 645.107(i) of this regulation.
(i) Whenever the FHWA has authorized right-of-way acquisition under the hardship and protective buying provisions of 23 CFR 710.503, the FHWA may authorize the physical relocation of utility facilities located in whole or in part on such right-of-way.
(j) When all efforts by the TD and utility fail to bring about written
agreement of their separate responsibilities under the provisions of this regulation, the STD shall submit its proposal and a full report of the circumstances to the FHWA. Conditional authorizations for the relocation work to proceed may be given by the FHWA to the STD with the understanding that Federal funds will not be paid for work done by the utility until the STD proposal has been approved by the FHWA.
(k) The FHWA will consider for approval any special procedure under State law, or appropriate administrative or judicial order, or under blanket master agreements with the utilities, that will fully accomplish all of the foregoing objectives and accelerate the advancement of the construction and completion of projects.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 34850, July 5, 1995; 64 FR 71289, Dec. 21, 1999; 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.115
Construction.
(a) Part 635, subpart B, of this title, Force Account Construction (justification required for force account work), states that it is cost-effective for certain utility adjustments to be performed by a utility with its own forces and equipment, provided the utility is qualified to perform the work in a satisfactory manner. This cost-effectiveness finding covers minor work on the utility's existing facilities routinely performed by the utility with its own forces. When the utility is not adequately staffed and equipped to perform such work with its own forces and equipment at a time convenient to and in coordination with the associated highway construction, such work may be done by:
(1) A contract awarded by the TD or utility to the lowest qualified bidder based on appropriate solicitation,
(2) Inclusion as part of the TD's highway construction contract let by the TD as agreed to by the utility,
(3) An existing continuing contract, provided the costs are reasonable, or
(4) A contract for low-cost incidental work, such as tree trimming and the like, awarded by the TD or utility without competitive bidding, provided the costs are reasonable.
(b) When it has been determined under part 635, subpart B, that the force account method is not the most cost-effective means for accomplishing the utility adjustment, such work is to be done under competitive bid contracts as described in § 645.115(a) (1) and (2) or under an existing continuing contract provided it can be demonstrated this is the most cost-effective method.
(c) Costs for labor, materials, equipment, and other services furnished by the utility shall be billed by the utility directly to the TD. The special provisions of contracts let by the utility or the TD shall be explicit in this respect. The costs of force account work performed for the utility by the TD and of contract work performed for the utility under a contract let by the TD shall be reported separately from the costs of other force account and contract items on the highway project.
§ 645.117
Cost development and reimbursement.
(a)
Developing and recording costs.
(1) All utility relocation costs shall be recorded by means of work orders in accordance with an approved work order system except when another method of developing and recording costs, such as lump-sum agreement, has been approved by the TD and the FHWA. Except for work done under contracts, the individual and total costs properly reported and recorded in the utility's accounts in accordance with the approved method for developing such costs, or the lump-sum agreement, shall constitute the maximum amount on which Federal participation may be based.
(2) Each utility shall keep its work order system or other approved accounting procedure in such a manner as to show the nature of each addition to or retirement from a facility, the total costs thereof, and the source or sources of cost. Separate work orders may be issued for additions and retirements. Retirements, however, may be included with the construction work order provided that all items relating to retirements shall be kept separately from those relating to construction.
(3) The STD may develop, or work in concert with utility companies to develop, other acceptable costing methods, such as unit costs, to estimate and
reimburse utility relocation expenditures. Such other methods shall be founded in generally accepted industry practices and be reasonably supported by recent actual expenditures. Unit costs should be developed periodically and supported annually by a maintained data base of relocation expenses. Development of any alternate costing method should consider the factors listed in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. Streamlining of the cost development and reimbursement procedures is encouraged so long as adequate accountability for Federal expenditures is maintained. Concurrence by the FHWA is required for any costing method used other than actual cost.
(b)
Direct labor costs.
(1) Salaries and wages, at actual or average rates, and related expenses paid by the utility to individuals for the time worked on the project are reimbursable when supported by adequate records. This includes labor associated with preliminary engineering, construction engineering, right-of-way, and force account construction.
(2) Salaries and expenses paid to individuals who are normally part of the overhead organization of the utility may be reimbursed for the time worked directly on the project when supported by adequate records and when the work performed by such individuals is essential to the project and could not have been accomplished as economically by employees outside the overhead organization.
(3) Amounts paid to engineers, architects and others for services directly related to projects may be reimbursed.
(c)
Labor surcharges.
(1) Labor surcharges include worker compensation insurance, public liability and property damage insurance, and such fringe benefits as the utility has established for the benefit of its employees. The cost of labor surcharges will be reimbursed at actual cost to the utility, or, at the option of the utility, average rates which are representative of actual costs may be used in lieu of actual costs if approved by the STD and the FHWA. These average rates should be adjusted at least once annually to take into account known anticipated changes and correction for any over or under applied costs for the preceding period.
(2) When the utility is a self-insurer, there may be reimbursement at experience rates properly developed from actual costs. The rates cannot exceed the rates of a regular insurance company for the class of employment covered.
(d)
Overhead and indirect construction costs.
(1) Overhead and indirect construction costs not charged directly to work order or construction accounts may be allocated to the relocation provided the allocation is made on an equitable basis. All costs included in the allocation shall be eligible for Federal reimbursement, reasonable, actually incurred by the utility, and consistent with the provisions of 48 CFR part 31.
(2) Costs not eligible for Federal reimbursement include, but are not limited to, the costs associated with advertising, sales promotion, interest on borrowings, the issuance of stock, bad debts, uncollectible accounts receivable, contributions, donations, entertainment, fines, penalties, lobbying, and research programs.
(3) The records supporting the entries for overhead and indirect construction costs shall show the total amount, rate, and allocation basis for each additive, and are subject to audit by representatives of the State and Federal Government.
(e)
Material and supply costs.
(1) Materials and supplies, if available, are to be furnished from company stock except that they may be obtained from other sources near the project site when available at a lower cost. When not available from company stock, they may be purchased either under competitive bids or existing continuing contracts under which the lowest available prices are developed. Minor quantities of materials and supplies and proprietary products routinely used in the utility's operation and essential for the maintenance of system compatibility may be excluded from these requirements. The utility shall not be required to change its existing standards for materials used in permanent changes to its facilities. Costs shall be determined as follows:
(i) Materials and supplies furnished from company stock shall be billed at
the current stock prices for such new or used materials at time of issue.
(ii) Materials and supplies not furnished from company stock shall be billed at actual costs to the utility delivered to the project site.
(iii) A reasonable cost for plant inspection and testing may be included in the costs of materials and supplies when such expense has been incurred. The computation of actual costs of materials and supplies shall include the deduction of all offered discounts, rebates, and allowances.
(iv) The cost of rehabilitating rather than replacing existing utility facilities to meet the requirements of a project is reimbursable, provided this cost does not exceed replacement costs.
(2) Materials recovered from temporary use and accepted for reuse by the utility shall be credited to the project at prices charged to the job, less a considertion for loss in service life at 10 percent. Materials recovered from the permanent facility of the utility that are accepted by the utility for return to stock shall be credited to the project at the current stock prices of such used materials. Materials recovered and not accepted for reuse by the utility, if determined to have a net sale value, shall be sold to the highest bidder by the TD or utility following an opportunity for TD inspection and appropriate solicitation for bids. If the utility practices a system of periodic disposal by sale, credit to the project shall be at the going prices supported by records of the utility.
(3) Federal participation may be approved for the total cost of removal when either such removal is required by the highway construction or the existing facilities cannot be abandoned in place for aesthetic or safety reasons. When the utility facilities can be abandoned in place but the utility or highway constructor elects to remove and recover the materials, Federal funds shall not participate in removal costs which exceed the value of the materials recovered.
(4) The actual and direct costs of handling and loading materials and supplies at company stores or material yards, and of unloading and handling recovered materials accepted by the utility at its stores or material yards are reimbursable. In lieu of actual costs, average rates which are representative of actual costs may be used if approved by the STD and the FHWA. These average rates should be adjusted at least once annually to take into account known anticipated changes and correction for any over or under applied costs for the preceding period. At the option of the utility, 5 percent of the amounts billed for the materials and supplies issued from company stores and material yards or the value of recovered materials will be reimbursed in lieu of actual or average costs for handling.
(f)
Equipment costs.
The average or actual costs of operation, minor maintenance, and depreciation of utility-owned equipment may be reimbursed. Reimbursement for utility-owned vehicles may be made at average or actual costs. When utility-owned equipment is not available, reimbursement will be limited to the amount of rental paid (1) to the lowest qualified bidder, (2) under existing continuing contracts at reasonable costs, or (3) as an exception by negotiation when paragraph (f) (1) and (2) of this section are impractical due to project location or schedule.
(g)
Transportation costs.
(1) The utility's cost, consistent with its overall policy, of necessary employee transportation and subsistence directly attributable to the project is reimbursable.
(2) Reasonable cost for the movement of materials, supplies, and equipment to the project and necessary return to storage including the associated cost of loading and unloading equipment is reimbursable.
(h)
Credits.
(1) Credit to the highway project will be required for the cost of any betterments to the facility being replaced or adjusted, and for the salvage value of the materials removed.
(2) Credit to the highway project will be required for the accrued depreciation of a utility facility being replaced, such as a building, pumping station, filtration plant, power plant, substation, or any other similar operational unit. Such accrued depreciation is that amount based on the ratio between the period of actual length of
service and total life expectancy applied to the original cost. Credit for accrued depreciation shall not be required for a segment of the utility's service, distribution, or transmission lines.
(3) No betterment credit is required for additions or improvements which are:
(i) Required by the highway project,
(ii) Replacement devices or materials that are of equivalent standards although not identical,
(iii) Replacement of devices or materials no longer regularly manufactured with next highest grade or size,
(iv) Required by law under governmental and appropriate regulatory commission code, or
(v) Required by current design practices regularly followed by the company in its own work, and there is a direct benefit to the highway project.
(4) When the facilities, including equipment and operating facilities, described in § 645.117(h)(2) are not being replaced, but are being rehabilitated and/or moved, as necessitated by the highway project, no credit for accrued depreciation is needed.
(5) In no event will the total of all credits required under the provisions of this regulation exceed the total costs of adjustment exclusive of the cost of additions or improvements necessitated by the highway construction.
(i)
Billings.
(1) After the executed TD/utility agreement has been approved by the FHWA, the utility may be reimbursed through the STD by progress billings for costs incurred. Cost for materials stockpiled at the project site or specifically purchased and delivered to the utility for use on the project may also be reimbursed on progress billings following approval of the executed TD/utility agreement.
(2) The utility shall provide one final and complete billing of all costs incurred, or of the agreed-to lump-sum, within one year following completion of the utility relocation work, otherwise previous payments to the utility may be considered final, except as agreed to between the STD and the utility. Billings received from utilities more than one year following completion of the utility relocation work may be paid if the STD so desires, and Federal-aid highway funds may participate in these payments.
(3) All utility cost records and accounts relating to the project are subject to audit by representatives of the State and Federal Government for a period of 3 years from the date final payment has been received by the utility.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (i) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0159)
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 34850, July 5, 1995; 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.119
Alternate procedure.
(a) This alternate procedure is provided to simplify the processing of utility relocations or adjustments under the provisions of this regulation. Under this procedure, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the STD is to act in the relative position of the FHWA for reviewing and approving the arrangements, fees, estimates, plans, agreements, and other related matters required by this regulation as prerequisites for authorizing the utility to proceed with and complete the work.
(b) The scope of the STD's approval authority under the alternate procedure includes all actions necessary to advance and complete all types of utility work under the provisions of this regulation except in the following instances:
(1) Utility relocations and adjustments involving major transfer, production, and storage facilities such as generating plants, power feed stations, pumping stations and reservoirs.
(2) Utility relocations falling within the scope of § 645.113 (h), (i), and (j), and § 645.107(i) of this regulation.
(c) To adopt the alternate procedure, the STD must file a formal application for approval by the FHWA. The application must include the following:
(1) The STD's written policies and procedures for administering and processing Federal-aid utility adjustments. Those policies and procedures must make adequate provisions with respect to the following:
(i) Compliance with the requirements of this regulation, except as otherwise
provided by § 645.119(b), and the provisions of 23 CFR part 645, subpart B, Accommodation of Utilities.
(ii) Advance utility liaison, planning, and coordination measures for providing adequate lead time and early scheduling of utility relocation to minimize interference with the planned highway construction.
(iii) Appropriate administrative, legal, and engineering review and coordination procedures as needed to establish the legal basis of the TD's payment; the extent of eligibility of the work under State and Federal laws and regulations; the more restrictive payment standards under § 645.103(d) of this regulation; the necessity of the proposed utility work and its compatibility with proposed highway improvements; and the uniform treatment of all utility matters and actions, consistent with sound management practices.
(iv) Documentation of actions taken in compliance with STD policies and the provisions of this regulation, shall be retained by the STD.
(2) A statement signed by the chief administrative officer of the STD certifying that:
(i) Federal-aid utility relocations will be processed in accordance with the applicable provisions of this regulation, and the STD's utility policies and procedures submitted under § 645.119(c)(1).
(ii) Reimbursement will be requested only for those costs properly attributable to the proposed highway construction and eligible for participation under the provisions of this regulation.
(d) The STD's application and any changes to it will be submitted to the FHWA for review and approval.
(e) After the alternate procedure has been approved, the FHWA may authorize the STD to proceed with utility relocation on a project in accordance with the certification, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The utility work must be included in an approved program.
(2) The STD must submit a request in writing for such authorization. The request shall include a list of the utility relocations to be processed under the alternate procedure, along with the best available estimate of the total costs involved.
(f) The FHWA may suspend approval of the alternate procedure when any FHWA review discloses noncompliance with the certification. Federal funds will not participate in relocation costs incurred that do not comply with the requirements under § 645.119(c)(1).
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (c) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0533)
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]

# Subpart B—Accommodation of Utilities

# Source:
50 FR 20354, May 15, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 645.201
Purpose.
To prescribe policies and procedures for accommodating utility facilities and private lines on the right-of-way of Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects.
§ 645.203
Applicability.
This subpart applies to:
(a) New utility installations within the right-of-way of Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects,
(b) Existing utility facilities which are to be retained, relocated, or adjusted within the right-of-way of active projects under development or construction when Federal-aid or direct Federal highway funds are either being or have been used on the involved highway facility. When existing utility installations are to remain in place without adjustments on such projects the transportation department and utility are to enter into an appropriate agreement as discussed in § 645.213 of this part,
(c) Existing utility facilities which are to be adjusted or relocated under the provisions of § 645.209(k), and
(d) Private lines which may be permitted to cross the right-of-way of a Federal-aid or direct Federal highway project pursuant to State law and regulations and the provisions of this subpart. Longitudinal use of such right-of-
way by private lines is to be handled under the provisions of 23 CFR 1.23(c).
§ 645.205
Policy.
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of 23 CFR 1.23, it is in the public interest for utility facilities to be accommodated on the right-of-way of a Federal-aid or direct Federal highway project when such use and occupancy of the highway right-of-way do not adversely affect highway or traffic safety, or otherwise impair the highway or its aesthetic quality, and do not conflict with the provisions of Federal, State or local laws or regulations.
(b) Since by tradition and practice highway and utility facilities frequently coexist within common right-of-way or along the same transportation corridors, it is essential in such situations that these public service facilities be compatibly designed and operated. In the design of new highway facilities consideration should be given to utility service needs of the area traversed if such service is to be provided from utility facilities on or near the highway. Similarly the potential impact on the highway and its users should be considered in the design and location of utility facilities on or along highway right-of-way. Efficient, effective and safe joint highway and utility development of transportation corridors is important along high speed and high volume roads, such as major arterials and freeways, particularly those approaching metropolitan areas where space is increasingly limited. Joint highway and utility planning and development efforts are encouraged on Federal-aid highway projects.
(c) The manner is which utilities cross or otherwise occupy the right-of-way of a direct Federal or Federal-aid highway project can materially affect the highway, its safe operation, aesthetic quality, and maintenance. Therefore, it is necessary that such use and occupancy, where authorized, be regulated by transportation departments in a manner which preserves the operational safety and the functional and aesthetic quality of the highway facility. This subpart shall not be construed to alter the basic legal authority of utilities to install their facilities on public highways pursuant to law or franchise and reasonable regulation by transportation departments with respect to location and manner of installation.
(d) When utilities cross or otherwise occupy the right-of-way of a direct Federal or Federal-aid highway project on Federal lands, and when the right-of-way grant is for highway purposes only, the utility must also obtain and comply with the terms of a right-of-way or other occupancy permit for the Federal agency having jurisdiction over the underlying land.
[50 FR 20354, May 15, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 2833, Feb. 2, 1988]
§ 645.207
Definitions.
For the purpose of this regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
Aesthetic quality
—those desirable characteristics in the appearance of the highway and its environment, such as harmony between or blending of natural and manufactured objects in the environment, continuity of visual form without distracting interruptions, and simplicity of designs which are desirably functional in shape but without clutter.
Border area
—the area between the traveled way and the right-of-way line.
Clear roadside policy
—that policy employed by a transportation department to provide a clear zone in order to increase safety, improve traffic operations, and enhance the aesthetic quality of highways by designing, constructing and maintaining highway roadsides as wide, flat, and rounded as practical and as free as practical from natural or manufactured hazards such as trees, drainage structures, nonyielding sign supports, highway lighting supports, and utility poles and other ground-mounted structures. The policy should address the removal of roadside obstacles which are likely to be associated with accident or injury to the highway user, or when such obstacles are essential, the policy should provide for appropriate countermeasures to reduce hazards. Countermeasures include placing utility facilities at locations which protect out-of-
control vehicles, using breakaway features, using impact attenuation devices, or shielding. In all cases full consideration shall be given to sound engineering principles and economic factors.
Clear zone
—the total roadside border area starting at the edge of the traveled way, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and/or the area at the toe of a non-recoverable slope available for safe use by an errant vehicle. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the roadside geometry. The current edition of the AASHTO “Roadside Design Guide” should be used as a guide for establishing clear zones for various types of highways and operating conditions. This publication is available for inspection and copying from the FHWA Washington Headquarters and all FHWA Division Offices as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7. Copies of current AASHTO publications are available for purchase from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, Suite 225, 444 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20001, or electronically at
http://www.aashto.org.
Direct Federal highway projects
—those active or completed highway projects such as projects under the Federal Lands Highways Program which are under the direct administration of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)
Federal-aid highway projects
—those active or completed highway projects administered by or through a State transportation department which involve or have involved the use of Federal-aid highway funds for the development, acquisition of right-of-way, construction or improvement of the highway or related facilities, including highway beautification projects under 23 U.S.C. 319, Landscaping and Scenic Enhancement.
Freeway
—a divided arterial highway with full control of access.
Highway
—any public way for vehicular travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way and related facilities constructed or improved in whole or in part with Federal-aid or direct Federal highway funds.
Transportation department
—that department, agency, commission, board, or official of any State or political subdivision thereof, charged by its law with the responsibility for highway administration.
Private lines
—privately owned facilities which convey or transmit the commodities outlined in the definition of
utility facility
of this section, but devoted exclusively to private use.
Right-of-way
—real property, or interests therein, acquired, dedicated or reserved for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a highway in which Federal-aid or direct Federal highway funds are or have been involved in any stage of development. Lands acquired under 23 U.S.C. 319 shall be considered to be highway right-of-way.
State transportation department
—the transportation department of one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Use and occupancy agreement
—the document (written agreement or permit) by which the transportation department approves the use and occupancy of highway right-of-way by utility facilities or private lines.
Utility facility
—privately, publicly or cooperatively owned line, facility, or system for producing, transmitting, or distributing communications, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste, storm water not connected with highway drainage, or any other similar commodity, including any fire or police signal system or street lighting system, which directly or indirectly serves the public. The term utility shall also mean the utility company inclusive of any substantially owned or controlled subsidiary. For the purposes of this part, the term includes those utility-type facilities which are owned or leased by a government agency for its own use, or otherwise dedicated solely to governmental use. The term utility includes those facilities
used solely by the utility which are a part of its operating plant.
[50 FR 20345, May 15, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 16834, May 7, 1986; 53 FR 2833, Feb. 2, 1988; 55 FR 25828, June 25, 1990; 60 FR 34850, July 5, 1995; 61 FR 12022, Mar. 25, 1996; 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.209
General requirements.
(a)
Safety.
Highway safety and traffic safety are of paramount, but not of sole, importance when accommodating utility facilities within highway right-of-way. Utilities provide an essential public service to the general public. Traditionally, as a matter of sound economic public policy and law, utilities have used public road right-of-way for transmitting and distributing their services. The lack of sufficient right-of-way width to accommodate utilities outside the desirable clear zone, in and of itself, is not a valid reason to preclude utilities from occupying the highway right-of-way. However, due to the nature and volume of highway traffic, the effect of such joint use on the traveling public must be carefully considered by transportation departments before approval of utility use of the right-of-way of Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects is given. Adjustments in the operating characteristics of the utility or the highway or other special efforts may be necessary to increase the compatibility of utility-highway joint use. The possibility of this joint use should be a consideration in establishing right-of-way requirements for highway projects. In any event, the design, location, and manner in which utilities use and occupy the right-of-way of Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects must conform to the clear roadside policies for the highway involved and otherwise provide for a safe traveling environment as required by 23 U.S.C. 109(l)(1).
(b)
New above ground installations.
On Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects, new above ground utility installations, where permitted, shall be located as far from the traveled way as possible, preferably along the right-of-way line. No new above ground utility installations are to be allowed within the established clear zone of the highway unless a determination has been made by the transportation department that placement underground is not technically feasible or is unreasonably costly and there are no feasible alternate locations. In exceptional situations when it is essential to locate such above ground utility facilities within the established clear zone of the highway, appropriate countermeasures to reduce hazards shall be used. Countermeasures include placing utility facilities at locations which protect or minimize exposure to out-of-control vehicles, using breakaway features, using impact attenuation devices, using delineation, or shielding.
(c)
Installations within freeways.
(1) Each State transportation department shall submit an accommodation plan in accordance with §§ 645.211 and 645.215 which addresses how the State transportation department will consider applications for longitudinal utility installations within the access control lines of a freeway. This includes utility installations within interchange areas which must be constructed or serviced by direct access from the main lanes or ramps. If a State transportation department elects to permit such use, the plan must address how the State transportation department will oversee such use consistent with this subpart, Title 23 U.S.C., and the safe and efficient use of the highways.
(2) Any accommodation plan shall assure that installations satisfy the following criteria:
(i) The effects utility installations will have on highway and traffic safety will be ascertained, since in no case shall any use be permitted which would adversely affect safety.
(ii) The direct and indirect environmental and economic effects of any loss of productive agricultural land or any productivity of any agricultural land which would result from the disapproval of the use of such right-of-way for accommodation of such utility facility will be evaluated.
(iii) These environmental and economic effects together with any interference with or impairment of the use of the highway in such right-of-way which would result from the use of such right-of-way for the accommodation of such utility facility will be considered.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) A utility strip will be established along the outer edge of the right-of-way by locating a utility access control line between the proposed utility installation and the through roadway and ramps. Existing fences should be retained and, except along sections of freeways having frontage roads, planned fences should be located at the freeway right-of-way line. The State or political subdivision is to retain control of the utility strip right-of-way including its use by utility facilities. Service connections to adjacent properties shall not be permitted from within the utility strip.
(3) Nothing in this part shall be construed as prohibiting a transportation department from adopting a more restrictive policy than that contained herein with regard to longitudinal utility installations along freeway right-of-way and access for constructing and/or for servicing such installations.
(d)
Uniform policies and procedures.
For a transportation department to fulfill its responsibilities to control utility use of Federal-aid highway right-of-way within the State and its political subdivisions, it must exercise or cause to be exercised, adequate regulation over such use and occupancy through the establishment and enforcement of reasonably uniform policies and procedures for utility accommodation.
(e)
Private lines.
Because there are circumstances when private lines may be allowed to cross or otherwise occupy the right-of-way of Federal-aid projects, transportation departments shall establish uniform policies for properly controlling such permitted use. When permitted, private lines must conform to the provisions of this part and the provisions of 23 CFR 1.23(c) for longitudinal installations.
(f)
Direct Federal highway projects.
On direct Federal highway projects, the FHWA will apply, or cause to be applied, utility and private line accommodation policies similar to those required on Federal-aid highway projects. When appropriate, agreements will be entered into between the FHWA and the transportation department or other government agencies to ensure adequate control and regulation of use by utilities and private lines of the right-of-way on direct Federal highway projects.
(g)
Projects where state lacks authority.
On Federal-aid highway projects where the State transportation department does not have legal authority to regulate highway use by utilities and private lines, the State transportation department must enter into formal agreements with those local officials who have such authority. The agreements must provide for a degree of protection to the highway at least equal to the protection provided by the State transportation department's utility accommodation policy approved under the provisions of § 645.215(b) of this part. The project agreement between the State transportation department and the FHWA on all such Federal-aid highway projects shall contain a special provision incorporating the formal agreements with the responsible local officials.
(h)
Scenic areas.
New utility installations, including those needed for highway purposes, such as for highway lighting or to serve a weigh station, rest area or recreation area, are not permitted on highway right-of-way or other lands which are acquired or improved with Federal-aid or direct Federal highway funds and are located within or adjacent to areas of scenic enhancement and natural beauty. Such areas include public park and recreational lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, historic sites as described in 23 U.S.C. 138, scenic strips, overlooks, rest areas and landscaped areas. The State transportation department may permit exceptions provided the following conditions are met:
(1) New underground or aerial installations may be permitted only when they do not require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(2) Aerial installations may be permitted only when:
(i) Other locations are not available or are unusually difficult and costly, or are less desirable from the standpoint of aesthetic quality,
(ii) Placement underground is not technically feasible or is unreasonably costly, and
(iii) The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will employ suitable designs and materials, which give the greatest weight to the aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
(3) For new utility installations within freeways, the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section must also be satisfied.
(i)
Joint use agreements.
When the utility has a compensable interest in the land occupied by its facilities and such land is to be jointly occupied and used for highway and utility purposes, the transportation department and utility shall agree in writing as to the obligations and responsibilities of each party. Such joint-use agreements shall incorporate the conditions of occupancy for each party, including the rights vested in the transportation department and the rights and privileges retained by the utility. In any event, the interest to be acquired by or vested in the transportation department in any portion of the right-of-way of a Federal-aid or direct Federal highway project to be vacated, used or occupied by utilities or private lines, shall be adequate for the construction, safe operation, and maintenance of the highway project.
(j)
Traffic control plan.
Whenever a utility installation, adjustment or maintenance activity will affect the movement of traffic or traffic safety, the utility shall implement a traffic control plan and utilize traffic control devices as necessary to ensure the safe and expeditious movement of traffic around the work site and the safety of the utility work force in accordance with procedures established by the transportation department. The traffic control plan and the application of traffic control devices shall conform to the standards set forth in the current edition of the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (MUTCD) and 23 CFR part 630, subpart J. This publication is available for inspection and copying from the FHWA Washington Headquarters and all FHWA Division Offices as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7.
(k)
Corrective measures.
When the transportation department determines that existing utility facilities are likely to be associated with injury or accident to the highway user, as indicated by accident history or safety studies, the transportation department shall initiate or cause to be initiated in consultation with the affected utilities, corrective measures to provide for a safer traffic environment. The corrective measures may include changes to utility or highway facilities and should be prioritized to maximum safety benefits in the most cost-effective manner. The scheduling of utility safety improvements should take into consideration planned utility replacement or upgrading schedules, accident potential, and the availability of resources. It is expected that the requirements of this paragraph will result in an orderly and positive process to address the identified utility hazard problems in a timely and reasonable manner with due regard to the effect of the corrective measures on both the utility consumer and the road user. The type of corrective measures are not prescribed. Any requests received involving Federal participation in the cost of adjusting or relocating utility facilities pursuant to this paragrpah shall be subject to the provisions of 23 CFR part 645, subpart A, Utility Relocations, Adjustments and Reimbursement, and 23 CFR part 924, Highway Safety Improvement Program.
(l)
Wetlands.
The installation of privately owned lines or conduits on the right-of-way of Federal-aid or direct Federal highway projects for the purpose of draining adjacent wetlands onto the highway right-of-way is considered to be inconsistent with Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, dated May 24, 1977, and shall be prohibited.
(m)
Utility determination.
In determining whether a proposed installation is a utility or not, the most important consideration is how the STD views it under its own State laws and/or regulations.
[50 FR 20354, May 15, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 2833, Feb. 2, 1988; 60 FR 34851, July 5, 1995; 65 FR 70311, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.211
State transportation department accommodation policies.
The FHWA should use the current editions of the AASHTO publications, “A Guide for Accommodating Utilities Within Highway Right-of-Way” and “Roadside Design Guide” to assist in the evaluation of adequacy of STD utility accommodation policies. These publications are available for inspection from the FHWA Washington Headquarters and all FHWA Division Offices as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7. Copies of current AASHTO publications are available for purchase from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, Suite 225, 444 North Capitol Street NW., Washington, DC 20001, or electronically at
http://www.aashto.org.
At a minimum, such policies shall make adequate provisions with respect to the following:
(a) Utilities must be accommodated and maintained in a manner which will not impair the highway or adversely affect highway or traffic safety. Uniform procedures controlling the manner, nature and extent of such utility use shall be established.
(b) Consideration shall be given to the effect of utility installations in regard to safety, aesthetic quality, and the costs or difficulty of highway and utility construction and maintenance.
(c) The State transportation department's standards for regulating the use and occupancy of highway right-of-way by utilities must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The horizontal and vertical location requirements and clearances for the various types of utilities must be clearly stated. These must be adequate to ensure compliance with the clear roadside policies for the particular highway involved.
(2) The applicable provisions of government or industry codes required by law or regulation must be set forth or appropriately referenced, including highway design standards or other measures which the State transportation department deems necessary to provide adequate protection to the highway, its safe operation, aesthetic quality, and maintenance.
(3) Specifications for and methods of installation; requirements for preservation and restoration of highway facilities, appurtenances, and natural features and vegetation on the right-of-way; and limitations on the utility's activities within the right-of-way including installation within areas set forth by § 645.209(h) of this part should be prescribed as necessary to protect highway interests.
(4) Measures necessary to protect traffic and its safe operation during and after installation of facilities, including control-of-access restrictions, provisions for rerouting or detouring traffic, traffic control measures to be employed, procedures for utility traffic control plans, limitations on vehicle parking and materials storage, protection of open excavations, and the like must be provided.
(5) A State transportation department may deny a utility's request to occupy highway right-of-way based on State law, regulation, or ordinances or the State transportation department's policy. However, in any case where the provisions of this part are to be cited as the basis for disapproving a utility's request to use and occupy highway right-of-way, measures must be provided to evaluate the direct and indirect environmental and economic effects of any loss of productive agricultural land or any impairment of the productivity of any agricultural land that would result from the disapproval. The environmental and economic effects on productive agricultural land together with the possible interference with or impairment of the use of the highway and the effect on highway safety must be considered in the decision to disapprove any proposal by a utility to use such highway right-of-way.
(d) Compliance with applicable State laws and approved State transportation department utility accommodation policies must be assured. The responsible State transportation department's file must contain evidence of the written arrangements which set forth the terms under which utility facilities are to cross or otherwise occupy highway right-of-way. All utility installations made on highway right-of-way shall be subject to written approval by the State transportation department. However, such approval will not be required where so provided in
the use and occupancy agreement for such matters as utility facility maintenance, installation of service connections on highways other than freeways, or emergency operations.
(e) The State transportation department shall set forth in its utility accommodation plan detailed procedures, criteria, and standards it will use to evaluate and approve individual applications of utilities on freeways under the provisions of § 645.209(c) of this part. The State transportation department also may develop such procedures, criteria and standards by class of utility. In defining utility classes, consideration may be given to distinguishing utility services by type, nature or function and their potential impact on the highway and its user.
(f) The means and authority for enforcing the control of access restrictions applicable to utility use of controlled access highway facilities should be clearly set forth in the State transportation department plan.
(Information collection requirements in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) were approved under control number 2125-0522, and paragraph (d) under control number 2125-0514)
[50 FR 20354, May 15, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 2834, Feb. 2, 1988; 55 FR 25828, June 25, 1990; 65 FR 70312, Nov. 22, 2000]
§ 645.213
Use and occupancy agreements (permits).
The written arrangements, generally in the form of use and occupancy agreements setting forth the terms under which the utility is to cross or otherwise occupy the highway right-of-way, must include or incorporate by reference:
(a) The transportation department standards for accommodating utilities. Since all of the standards will not be applicable to each individual utility installation, the use and occupancy agreement must, as a minimum, describe the requirements for location, construction, protection of traffic, maintenance, access restriction, and any special conditions applicable to each installation.
(b) A general description of the size, type, nature, and extent of the utility facilities being located within the highway right-of-way.
(c) Adequate drawings or sketches showing the existing and/or proposed location of the utility facilities within the highway right-of-way with respect to the existing and/or planned highway improvements, the traveled way, the right-of-way lines and, where applicable, the control of access lines and approved access points.
(d) The extent of liability and responsibilities associated with future adjustment of the utilities to accommodate highway improvements.
(e) The action to be taken in case of noncompliance with the transportation department's requirements.
(f) Other provisions as deemed necessary to comply with laws and regulations.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0522)
§ 645.215
Approvals.
(a) Each State transportation department shall submit a statement to the FHWA on the authority of utilities to use and occupy the right-of-way of State highways, the State transportation department's power to regulate such use, and the policies the State transportation department employs or proposes to employ for accommodating utilities within the right-of-way Federal-aid highways under its jurisdiction. Statements previously submitted and approved by the FHWA need not be resubmitted provided the statement adequately addresses the requirements of this part. When revisions are deemed necessary the changes to the previously approved statement may be submitted separately to the FHWA for approval. The State transportation department shall include similar information on the use and occupancy of such highways by private lines where permitted. The State shall identify those areas, if any, of Federal-aid highways within its borders where the State transportation department is without legal authority to regulate use by utilities. The statement shall address the nature of the formal agreements with local officials required by § 645.209(g) of this part. It is expected that the statements required by this part or necessary revisions to previously submitted and approved statements will be submitted to FHWA
within 1 year of the effective date of this regulation.
(b) Upon determination by the FHWA that a State transportation department's policies satisfy the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 109, 111, and 116, and 23 CFR 1.23 and 1.27, and meet the requirements of this regulation, the FHWA will approve their use on Federal-aid highway projects in that State
(c) Any changes, additions or deletions the State transportation department proposes to the approved policies are subject to FHWA approval.
(d) When a utility files a notice or makes an individual application or request to a STD to use or occupy the right-of-way of a Federal-aid highway project, the STD is not required to submit the matter to the FHWA for prior concurrence, except when the proposed installation is not in accordance with this regulation or with the STD's utility accommodation policy approved by the FHWA for use on Federal-aid highway projects.
(e) The State transportation department's practices under the policies or agreements approved under § 645.215(b) of this part shall be periodically reviewed by the FHWA.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0514)
[50 FR 20354, May 15, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 2834, Feb. 2, 1988; 60 FR 34851, July 5, 1995; 65 FR 70312, Nov. 22, 2000]

# Subpart C—Broadband Infrastructure Deployment

# Source:
86 FR 68559, Dec. 3, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 645.301
Purpose.
To prescribe additional requirements to facilitate the installation of broadband infrastructure pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 1504.
§ 645.303
Applicability.
This subpart applies to each State that receives funds under Chapter 1 of Title 23 of the U.S.C. and only to activities for which Federal obligations or expenditures are initially approved on or after the effective date of this subpart.
§ 645.305
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the terms defined in 47 U.S.C. 1504(a) shall have the same meaning where used in these regulations, notwithstanding other provisions of this part or Title 23 of the U.S.C.
§ 645.307
General requirements.
(a) A State department of transportation, in consultation with appropriate State agencies, shall:
(1) Identify a broadband utility coordinator, whether in the State department of transportation or in another State agency, that is responsible for facilitating the broadband infrastructure right-of-way efforts within the State. The broadband utility coordinator may have additional responsibilities.
(2) Establish a process for the registration of broadband infrastructure entities that seek to be included in those broadband infrastructure right-of-way facilitation efforts within the State.
(3) Establish a process to notify electronically broadband infrastructure entities identified under subsection (2) of the State Transportation Improvement Program on an annual basis and provide additional notifications as necessary to achieve the goals of this subpart; and
(4) Coordinate initiatives carried out under this subpart with other statewide telecommunication and broadband plans and State and local transportation and land use plans, including strategies to minimize repeated excavations that involve the installation of broadband infrastructure in a right-of-way.
(b) If a State chooses to provide for the installation of broadband infrastructure in the right-of-way of an applicable Federal-aid highway project under this section, the State department of transportation shall carry out any appropriate measures to ensure that any existing broadband infrastructure entities are not disadvantaged, as compared to other broadband infrastructure entities, with respect to the program under this section.
§ 645.309
Limitations.
Nothing in this subpart establishes a mandate or requirement that a State install or allow the installation of broadband infrastructure in a highway right-of-way. Nothing in this subpart authorizes the Secretary to withhold or reserve funds or approval of a project under Title 23 of the U.S.C.
Pt. 646

# PART 646—RAILROADS

# Subpart A—Railroad-Highway Insurance Protection
Sec.
646.101
Purpose.
646.103
Application.
646.105
Contractor's public liability and property damage insurance.
646.107
Railroad protective insurance.
646.109
Types of coverage.
646.111
Amount of coverage.

# Subpart B—Railroad-Highway Projects
646.200
Purpose and applicability.
646.202
[Reserved]
646.204
Definitions.
646.206
Types of projects.
646.208
Funding.
646.210
Classification of projects and railroad share of the cost.
646.212
Federal share.
646.214
Design.
646.216
General procedures.
646.218
Simplified procedure for accelerating grade crossing improvements.
646.220
Alternate Federal-State procedure.
Appendix to Subpart B of Part 646—Horizontal and Vertical Clearance Provisions for Overpass and Underpass Structures

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 109(e), 120(c), 130, 133(d)(1), and 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Subpart A—Railroad-Highway Insurance Protection

# Source:
39 FR 36474, Oct. 10, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 646.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to prescribe provisions under which Federal funds may be applied to the costs of public liability and property damage insurance obtained by contractors (a) for their own operations, and (b) on behalf of railroads on or about whose right-of-way the contractors are required to work in the construction of highway projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds.
§ 646.103
Application.
(a) This part applies:
(1) To a contractors' legal liability for bodily injury to, or death of, persons and for injury to, or destruction of, property.
(2) To the liability which may attach to railroads for bodily injury to, or death of, persons and for injury to, or destruction of, property.
(3) To damage to property owned by or in the care, custody or control of the railroads, both as such liability or damage may arise out of the contractor's operations, or may result from work performed by railroads at or about railroad rights-of-way in connection with projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds.
(b) Where the highway construction is under the direct supervision of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), all references herein to the State shall be considered as references to the FHWA.
§ 646.105
Contractor's public liability and property damage insurance.
(a) Contractors may be subject to liability with respect to bodily injury to or death of persons, and injury to, or destruction of property, which may be suffered by persons other than their own employees as a result of their operations in connection with construction of highway projects located in whole or in part within railroad right-of-way and financed in whole or in part with Federal funds. Protection to cover such liability of contractors shall be furnished under regular contractors' public liability and property damage insurance policies issued in the names of the contractors. Such policies shall be so written as to furnish protection to contractors respecting their operations in performing work covered by their contract.
(b) Where a contractor sublets a part of the work on any project to a subcontractor, the contractor shall be required to secure insurance protection in his own behalf under contractor's public liability and property damage
insurance policies to cover any liability imposed on him by law for damages because of bodily injury to, or death of, persons and injury to, or destruction of, property as a result of work undertaken by such subcontractors. In addition, the contractor shall provide for and on behalf of any such subcontractors protection to cover like liability imposed upon the latter as a result of their operations by means of separate and individual contractor's public liability and property damage policies; or, in the alternative, each subcontractor shall provide satisfactory insurance on his own behalf to cover his individual operations.
(c) The contractor shall furnish to the State highway department evidence satisfactory to such department and to the FHWA that the insurance coverages required herein have been provided. The contractor shall also furnish a copy of such evidence to the railroad or railroads involved. The insurance specified shall be kept in force until all work required to be performed shall have been satisfactorily completed and accepted in accordance with the contract under which the construction work is undertaken.
§ 646.107
Railroad protective insurance.
In connection with highway projects for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings and other highway construction projects located in whole or in part within railroad right-of-way, railroad protective liability insurance shall be purchased on behalf of the railroad by the contractor. The standards for railroad protective insurance established by §§ 646.109 through 646.111 shall be adhered to insofar as the insurance laws of the State will permit.
[39 FR 36474, Oct. 10, 1974, as amended at 47 FR 33955, Aug. 5, 1982]
§ 646.109
Types of coverage.
(a) Coverage shall be limited to damage suffered by the railroad on account of occurrences arising out of the work of the contractor on or about the railroad right-of-way, independent of the railroad's general supervision or control, except as noted in § 646.109(b)(4).
(b) Coverage shall include:
(1) Death of or bodily injury to passengers of the railroad and employees of the railroad not covered by State workmen's compensation laws;
(2) Personal property owned by or in the care, custody or control of the railroads;
(3) The contractor, or any of his agents or employees who suffer bodily injury or death as the result of acts of the railroad or its agents, regardless of the negligence of the railroad;
(4) Negligence of only the following classes of railroad employees:
(i) Any supervisory employee of the railroad at the job site;
(ii) Any employee of the railroad while operating, attached to, or engaged on, work trains or other railroad equipment at the job site which are assigned exclusively to the contractor; or
(iii) Any employee of the railroad not within (b)(4) (i) or (ii) who is specifically loaned or assigned to the work of the contractor for prevention of accidents or protection of property, the cost of whose services is borne specifically by the contractor or governmental authority.
§ 646.111
Amount of coverage.
(a) The maximum dollar amounts of coverage to be reimbursed from Federal funds with respect to bodily injury, death and property damage is limited to a combined amount of $2 million per occurrence with an aggregate of $6 million applying separately to each annual period except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In cases involving real and demonstrable danger of appreciably higher risks, higher dollar amounts of coverage for which premiums will be reimbursable from Federal funds shall be allowed. These larger amounts will depend on circumstances and shall be written for the individual project in accordance with standard underwriting practices upon approval of the FHWA.
[39 FR 36474, Oct. 10, 1974, as amended at 47 FR 33955, Aug. 5, 1982]

# Subpart B—Railroad-Highway Projects

# Source:
40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 646.200
Purpose and applicability.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe policies and procedures for advancing Federal-aid projects involving railroad facilities.
(b) This subpart, and all references hereinafter made to
projects,
applies to Federal-aid projects involving railroad facilities, including projects for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings, and other projects which use railroad properties or which involve adjustments required by highway construction to either railroad facilities or facilities that are jointly owned or used by railroad and utility companies.
(c) Additional instructions for projects involving the elimination of hazards of railroad/highway grade crossings pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 130 are set forth in 23 CFR part 924.
(d) Procedures on reimbursement for projects undertaken pursuant to this subpart are set forth in 23 CFR part 140, subpart I.
(e) Procedures on insurance required of contractors working on or about railroad right-of-way are set forth in 23 CFR part 646, subpart A.
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 20795, Mar. 31, 1980; 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.202
[Reserved]
§ 646.204
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Active warning devices
means those traffic control devices activated by the approach or presence of a train, such as flashing light signals, automatic gates and similar devices, as well as manually operated devices and crossing watchmen, all of which display to motorists positive warning of the approach or presence of a train.
Company
shall mean any railroad or utility company including any wholly owned or controlled subsidiary thereof.
Construction
shall mean the actual physical construction to improve or eliminate a railroad-highway grade crossing or accomplish other railroad involved work.
A diagnostic team
means a group of knowledgeable representatives of the parties of interest in a railroad-highway crossing or a group of crossings.
Main line railroad track
means a track of a principal line of a railroad, including extensions through yards, upon which trains are operated by timetable or train order or both, or the use of which is governed by block signals or by centralized traffic control.
Passive warning devices
means those types of traffic control devices, including signs, markings and other devices, located at or in advance of grade crossings to indicate the presence of a crossing but which do not change aspect upon the approach or presence of a train.
Preliminary engineering
shall mean the work necessary to produce construction plans, specifications, and estimates to the degree of completeness required for undertaking construction thereunder, including locating, surveying, designing, and related work.
Railroad
shall mean all rail carriers, publicly-owned, private, and common carriers, including line haul freight and passenger railroads, switching and terminal railroads and passenger carrying railroads such as rapid transit, commuter and street railroads.
Utility
shall mean the lines and facilities for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, water, steam, sewer and similar commodities.
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.206
Types of projects.
(a) Projects for the elimination of hazards, to both vehicles and pedestrians, of railroad-highway crossings may include but are not limited to:
(1) Grade crossing elimination;
(2) Reconstruction of existing grade separations; and
(3) Grade crossing improvements.
(b) Other railroad-highway projects are those which use railroad properties or involve adjustments to railroad facilities required by highway construction but do not involve the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings. Also included are adjustments to facilities that are jointly owned or used by railroad and utility companies.
§ 646.208
Funding.
(a) Railroad/highway crossing projects may be funded through the Federal-aid funding source appropriate for the involved project.
(b) Projects for the elimination of hazards at railroad/highway crossings may, at the option of the State, be funded with the funds provided by 23 U.S.C. 133(d)(1).
[62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.210
Classification of projects and railroad share of the cost.
(a) State laws requiring railroads to share in the cost of work for the elimination of hazards at railroad-highway crossings shall not apply to Federal-aid projects.
(b) Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 130(b), and 49 CFR 1.48:
(1) Projects for grade crossing improvements are deemed to be of no ascertainable net benefit to the railroads and there shall be no required railroad share of the costs.
(2) Projects for the reconstruction of existing grade separations are deemed to generally be of no ascertainable net benefit to the railroad and there shall be no required railroad share of the costs, unless the railroad has a specific contractual obligation with the State or its political subdivision to share in the costs.
(3) On projects for the elimination of existing grade crossings at which active warning devices are in place or ordered to be installed by a State regulatory agency, the railroad share of the project costs shall be 5 percent.
(4) On projects for the elimination of existing grade crossings at which active warning devices are not in place and have not been ordered installed by a State regulatory agency, or on projects which do not eliminate an existing crossing, there shall be no required railroad share of the project cost.
(c) The required railroad share of the cost under § 646.210(b)(3) shall be based on the costs for preliminary engineering, right-of-way and construction within the limits described below:
(1) Where a grade crossing is eliminated by grade separation, the structure and approaches required to transition to a theoretical highway profile which would have been constructed if there were no railroad present, for the number of lanes on the existing highway and in accordance with the current design standards of the State highway agency.
(2) Where another facility, such as a highway or waterway, requiring a bridge structure is located within the limits of a grade separation project, the estimated cost of a theoretical structure and approaches as described in § 646.210(c)(1) to eliminate the railroad-highway grade crossing without considering the presence of the waterway or other highway.
(3) Where a grade crossing is eliminated by railroad or highway relocation, the actual cost of the relocation project, the estimated cost of the relocation project, or the estimated cost of a structure and approaches as described in § 646.210(c)(1), whichever is less.
(d) Railroads may voluntarily contribute a greater share of project costs than is required. Also, other parties may voluntarily assume the railroad's share.
§ 646.212
Federal share.
(a)
General.
(1) Federal funds are not eligible to participate in costs incurred solely for the benefit of the railroad.
(2) At grade separations Federal funds are eligible to participate in costs to provide space for more tracks than are in place when the railroad establishes to the satisfaction of the State highway agency and FHWA that it has a definite demand and plans for installation of the additional tracks within a reasonable time.
(3) The Federal share of the cost of a grade separation project shall be based on the cost to provide horizontal and/or vertical clearances used by the railroad in its normal practice subject to limitations as shown in the appendix or as required by a State regulatory agency.
(b) The Federal share of railroad/highway crossing projects may be:
(1) Regular pro rata sharing as provided by 23 U.S.C. 120(a) and 120(b).
(2) One hundred percent Federal share, as provided by 23 U.S.C. 120(c).
(3) Ninety percent Federal share for funds made available through 23 U.S.C. 133(d)(1).
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 33955, Aug. 5, 1982; 53 FR 32218, Aug. 24, 1988; 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.214
Design.
(a)
General.
(1) Facilities that are the responsibility of the railroad for maintenance and operation shall conform to the specifications and design standards used by the railroad in its normal practice, subject to approval by the State highway agency and FHWA.
(2) Facilities that are the responsibility of the highway agency for maintenance and operation shall conform to the specifications and design standards and guides used by the highway agency in its normal practice for Federal-aid projects.
(b)
Grade crossing improvements.
(1) All traffic control devices proposed shall comply with the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways supplemented to the extent applicable by State standards.
(2) Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 109(e), where a railroad-highway grade crossing is located within the limits of or near the terminus of a Federal-aid highway project for construction of a new highway or improvement of the existing roadway, the crossing shall not be opened for unrestricted use by traffic or the project accepted by FHWA until adequate warning devices for the crossing are installed and functioning properly.
(3)(i)
Adequate warning devices,
under § 646.214(b)(2) or on any project where Federal-aid funds participate in the installation of the devices are to include automatic gates with flashing light signals when one or more of the following conditions exist:
(A) Multiple main line railroad tracks.
(B) Multiple tracks at or in the vicinity of the crossing which may be occupied by a train or locomotive so as to obscure the movement of another train approaching the crossing.
(C) High Speed train operation combined with limited sight distance at either single or multiple track crossings.
(D) A combination of high speeds and moderately high volumes of highway and railroad traffic.
(E) Either a high volume of vehicular traffic, high number of train movements, substantial numbers of schoolbuses or trucks carrying hazardous materials, unusually restricted sight distance, continuing accident occurrences, or any combination of these conditions.
(F) A diagnostic team recommends them.
(ii) In individual cases where a diagnostic team justifies that gates are not appropriate, FHWA may find that the above requirements are not applicable.
(4) For crossings where the requirements of § 646.214(b)(3) are not applicable, the type of warning device to be installed, whether the determination is made by a State regulatory agency, State highway agency, and/or the railroad, is subject to the approval of FHWA.
(c)
Grade crossing elimination.
All crossings of railroads and highways at grade shall be eliminated where there is full control of access on the highway (a freeway) regardless of the volume of railroad or highway traffic.
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 33955, Aug. 5, 1982; 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.216
General procedures.
(a)
General.
Unless specifically modified herein, applicable Federal-aid procedures govern projects undertaken pursuant to this subpart.
(b)
Preliminary engineering and engineering services.
(1) As mutually agreed to by the State highway agency and railroad, and subject to the provisions of § 646.216(b)(2), preliminary engineering work on railroad-highway projects may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(i) The State or railroad's engineering forces;
(ii) An engineering consultant selected by the State after consultation with the railroad, and with the State administering the contract; or
(iii) An engineering consultant selected by the railroad, with the approval of the State and with the railroad administering the contract.
(2) Where a railroad is not adequately staffed, Federal-aid funds may participate in the amounts paid to engineering consultants and others for required services, provided such amounts are not based on a percentage of the cost of construction, either under contracts for individual projects or under existing written continuing contracts where such work is regularly performed for the railroad in its own work under such contracts at reasonable costs.
(c)
Rights-of-way.
(1) Acquisition of right-of-way by a State highway agency on behalf of a railroad or acquisition of nonoperating real property from a railroad shall be in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
) and applicable FHWA right-of-way procedures in 23 CFR, chapter I, subchapter H. On projects for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings by the relocation of railroads, acquisition or replacement right-of-way by a railroad shall be in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
(2) Where buildings and other depreciable structures of the railroad (such as signal towers, passenger stations, depots, and other buildings, and equipment housings) which are integral to operation of railroad traffic are wholly or partly affected by a highway project, the costs of work necessary to functionally restore such facilities are eligible for participation. However, when replacement of such facilities is necessary, credits shall be made to the cost of the project for:
(i) Accrued depreciation, which is that amount based on the ratio between the period of actual length of service and total life expectancy applied to the original cost.
(ii) Additions or improvements which provide higher quality or increased service capability of the facility and which are provided solely for the benefit of the railroad.
(iii) Actual salvage value of the material recovered from the facility being replaced. Total credits to a project shall not be required in excess of the replacement cost of the facility.
(3) Where Federal funds participate in the cost of replacement right-of-way, there will be no charge to the project for the railroad's existing right-of-way being transferred to the State highway agency except when the value of the right-of-way being taken exceeds the value of the replacement right-of-way.
(d)
State-railroad agreements.
(1) Where construction of a Federal-aid project requires use of railroad properties or adjustments to railroad facilities, there shall be an agreement in writing between the State highway agency and the railroad company.
(2) The written agreement between the State and the railroad shall, as a minimum include the following, where applicable:
(i) The provisions of this subpart and of 23 CFR part 140, subpart I, incorporated by reference.
(ii) A detailed statement of the work to be performed by each party.
(iii) Method of payment (either actual cost or lump sum),
(iv) For projects which are not for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings, the extent to which the railroad is obligated to move or adjust its facilities at its own expense,
(v) The railroad's share of the project cost,
(vi) An itemized estimate of the cost of the work to be performed by the railroad,
(vii) Method to be used for performing the work, either by railroad forces or by contract,
(viii) Maintenance responsibility,
(ix) Form, duration, and amounts of any needed insurance,
(x) Appropriate reference to or identification of plans and specifications,
(xi) Statements defining the conditions under which the railroad will provide or require protective services during performance of the work, the type of protective services and the method of reimbursement to the railroad, and
(xii) Provisions regarding inspection of any recovered materials.
(3) On work to be performed by the railroad with its own forces and where the State highway agency and railroad agree, subject to approval by FHWA, an agreement providing for a lump sum payment in lieu of later determination of actual costs may be used for any of the following:
(i) Installation or improvement of grade crossing warning devices and/or grade crossing surfaces, regardless of cost, or
(ii) Any other eligible work where the estimated cost to the State of the proposed railroad work does not exceed $100,000 or
(iii) Where FHWA finds that the circumstances are such that this method of developing costs would be in the best interest of the public.
(4) Where the lump sum method of payment is used, periodic reviews and analyses of the railroad's methods and cost data used to develop lump sum estimates will be made.
(5) Master agreements between a State and a railroad on an areawide or statewide basis may be used. These agreements would contain the specifications, regulations, and provisions required in conjunction with work performed on all projects. Supporting data for each project or group of projects must, when combined with the master agreement by reference, satisfy the provisions of § 646.216(d)(2).
(6) Official orders issued by regulatory agencies will be accepted in lieu of State-railroad agreements only where, together with supplementary written understandings between the State and the railroad, they include the items required by § 646.216(d)(2).
(7) In extraordinary cases where FHWA finds that the circumstances are such that requiring such agreement or order would not be in the best interest of the public, projects may be approved for construction with the aid of Federal funds, provided satisfactory commitments have been made with respect to construction, maintenance and the railroad share of project costs.
(e)
Authorizations.
(1) The costs of preliminary engineering, right-of-way acquisition, and construction incurred after the date each phase of the work is included in an approved statewide transportation improvement program and authorized by the FHWA are eligible for Federal-aid participation. Preliminary engineering and right-of-way acquisition costs which are otherwise eligible, but incurred by a railroad prior to authorization by the FHWA, although not reimbursable, may be included as part of the railroad share of project cost where such a share is required.
(2) Prior to issuance of authorization by FHWA either to advertise the physical construction for bids or to proceed with force account construction for railroad work or for other construction affected by railroad work, the following must be accomplished:
(i) The plans, specifications and estimates must be approved by FHWA.
(ii) A proposed agreement between the State and railroad must be found satisfactory by FHWA. Before Federal funds may be used to reimburse the State for railroad costs the executed agreement must be approved by FHWA. However, cost for materials stockpiled at the project site or specifically purchased and delivered to the company for use on the project may be reimbursed on progress billings prior to the approval of the executed State-Railroad Agreement in accordance with 23 CFR 140.922(a) and § 646.218 of this part.
(iii) Adequate provisions must be made for any needed easements, right-of-way, temporary crossings for construction purposes or other property interests.
(iv) The pertinent portions of the State-railroad agreement applicable to any protective services required during performance of the work must be included in the project specifications and special provisions for any construction contract.
(3) In unusual cases, pending compliance with § 646.216(e)(2)(ii), (iii) and (iv), authorization may be given by FHWA to advertise for bids for highway construction under conditions where a railroad grants a right-of-entry to its property as necessary to prosecute the physical construction.
(f)
Construction.
(1) Construction may be accomplished by:
(i) Railroad force account,
(ii) Contracting with the lowest qualified bidder based on appropriate solicitation,
(iii) Existing continuing contracts at reasonable costs, or
(iv) Contract without competitive bidding, for minor work, at reasonable costs.
(2) Reimbursement will not be made for any increased costs due to changes in plans:
(i) For the convenience of the contractor, or
(ii) Not approved by the State and FHWA.
(3) The State and FHWA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to inspect materials recovered by the railroad prior to disposal by sale or scrap. This requirement will be satisfied by the railroad giving written notice, or oral notice with prompt written confirmation, to the State of the time and place where the materials will be available for inspection. The giving of notice is the responsibility of the railroad, and it may be held accountable for full value of materials disposed of without notice.
(4) In addition to normal construction costs, the following construction costs are eligible for participation with Federal-aid funds when approved by the State and FHWA:
(i) The cost of maintaining temporary facilities of a railroad company required by and during the highway construction to the extent that such costs exceed the documented normal cost of maintaining the permanent facilities.
(ii) The cost of stage or extended construction involving grade corrections and/or slope stabilization for permanent tracks of a railroad which are required to be relocated on new grade by the highway construction. Stage or extended construction will be approved by FHWA only when documentation submitted by the State establishes the proposed method of construction to be the only practical method and that the cost of the extended construction within the period specified is estimated to be less than the cost of any practicable alternate procedure.
(iii) The cost of restoring the company's service by adustments of existing facilities away from the project site, in lieu of and not to exceed the cost of replacing, adjusting or relocating facilities at the project site.
(iv) The cost of an addition or improvement to an existing railroad facility which is required by the highway construction.
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 29712, July 15, 1975; 47 FR 33956, Aug. 5, 1982; 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 646.218
Simplified procedure for accelerating grade crossing improvements.
(a) The procedure set forth in this section is encouraged for use in simplifying and accelerating the processing of single or multiple grade crossing improvements.
(b) Eligible preliminary engineering costs may include those incurred in selecting crossings to be improved, determining the type of improvement for each crossing, estimating the cost and preparing the required agreement.
(c) The written agreement between a State and a railroad shall contain as a minimum:
(1) Identification of each crossing location.
(2) Description of improvement and estimate of cost for each crossing location.
(3) Estimated schedule for completion of work at each location.
(d) Following programming, authorization and approval of the agreement under § 646.218(c), FHWA may authorize construction, including acquisition of warning device materials, with the condition that work at any particular location will not be undertaken until the proposed or executed State-railroad agreement under § 646.216(d)(2) is found satisfactory by FHWA and the final plans, specifications, and estimates are approved and with the condition that only material actually incorporated into the project will be eligible for Federal participation.
(e) Work programmed and authorized under this simplified procedure should include only that which can reasonably be expected to reach the construction stage within one year and be completed within two years after the initial authorization date.
§ 646.220
Alternate Federal-State procedure.
(a) On other than Interstate projects, an alternate procedure may be used, at the election of the State, for processing certain types of railroad-highway work. Under this procedure, the State highway agency will act in the relative position of FHWA for reviewing and approving projects.
(b) The scope of the State's approval authority under the alternate procedure includes all actions necessary to advance and complete the following types of railroad-highway work:
(1) All types of grade crossing improvements under § 646.206(a)(3).
(2) Minor adjustments to railroad facilities under § 646.206(b).
(c) The following types of work are to be reviewed and approved in the normal manner, as prescribed elsewhere in this subpart.
(1) All projects under § 646.206(a) (1) and (2).
(2) Major adjustments to railroad facilities under § 646.206(b).
(d) Any State wishing to adopt the alternate procedure may file a formal application for approval by FHWA. The application must include the following:
(1) The State's written policies and procedures for administering and processing Federal-aid railroad-highway work, which make adequate provisions with respect to all of the following:
(i) Compliance with the provisions of title 23 U.S.C., title 23 CFR, and other applicable Federal laws and Executive Orders.
(ii) Compliance with this subpart and 23 CFR part 140, subpart I and 23 CFR part 172.
(iii) For grade crossing safety improvements, compliance with the requirements of 23 CFR part 924.
(2) A statement signed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the State highway agency certifying that:
(i) The work will be done in accordance with the applicable provisions of the State's policies and procedures submitted under § 646.220(d)(1), and
(ii) Reimbursement will be requested in only those costs properly attributable to the highway construction and eligible for Federal fund participation.
(e) When FHWA has approved the alternate procedure, it may authorize the State to proceed in accordance with the State's certification, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The work has been programmed.
(2) The State submits in writing a request for such authorization which shall include a list of the improvements or adjustments to be processed under the alternate procedure, along with the best available estimate of cost.
(f) The FHWA Regional Administrator may suspend approval of the certified procedure, where FHWA reviews disclose noncompliance with the certification. Federal-aid funds will not be eligible to participate in costs that do not qualify under § 646.220(d)(1).
[40 FR 16059, Apr. 9, 1975; 40 FR 29712, July 15, 1975; 40 FR 31211, July 25, 1975; 42 FR 30835, June 17, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 20795, Mar. 31, 1980]
Pt. 646, Subpt. B, App.

# Appendix to Subpart B of Part 646—Horizontal and Vertical Clearance Provisions for Overpass and Underpass Structures
The following implements provisions of 23 CFR 646.212(a)(3).
a.
Lateral Geometrics
A cross section with a horizontal distance of 6.1 meters, measured at right angles from the centerline of track at the top of rails, to the face of the embankment slope, may be approved. The 6.1-meters distance may be increased at individual structure locations as appropriate to provide for drainage if justified by a hydraulic analysis or to allow adequate room to accommodate special conditions, such as where heavy and drifting snow is a problem. The railroad must demonstrate that this is its normal practice to address these special conditions in the manner proposed. Additionally, this distance may also be increased up to 2.5 meters as may be necessary for off-track maintenance equipment, provided adequate horizontal clearance is not available in adjacent spans and where justified by the presence of an existing maintenance road or by evidence of future need for such equipment. All piers should be placed at least 2.8 meters horizontally from the centerline of the track and preferably beyond the drainage ditch. For multiple track facilities, all dimensions apply to the centerline of the outside track.
Any increase above the 6.1-meters horizontal clearance distance must be required by specific site conditions and be justified by the railroad to the satisfaction of the State highway agency (SHA) and the FHWA.
b.
Vertical Clearance
A vertical clearance of 7.1 meters above the top of rails, which includes an allowance for future ballasting of the railroad tracks, may be approved. Vertical clearance greater than 7.1 meters may be approved when the State regulatory agency having jurisdiction over such matters requires a vertical clearance in excess of 7.1 meters or on a site by site basis where justified by the railroad to the satisfaction of the SHA and the FHWA. A railroad's justification for increased vertical
clearance should be based on an analysis of engineering, operational and/or economic conditions at a specific structure location.
Federal-aid highway funds are also eligible to participate in the cost of providing vertical clearance greater than 7.1 meters where a railroad establishes to the satisfaction of a SHA and the FHWA that it has a definite formal plan for electrification of its rail system where the proposed grade separation project is located. The plan must cover a logical independent segment of the rail system and be approved by the railroad's corporate headquarters. For 25 kv line, a vertical clearance of 7.4 meters may be approved. For 50 kv line, a vertical clearance of 8.0 meters may be approved.
A railroad's justification to support its plan for electrification shall include maps and plans or drawings showing those lines to be electrified; actions taken by its corporate headquarters committing it to electrification including a proposed schedule; and actions initiated or completed to date implementing its electrification plan such as a showing of the amounts of funds and identification of structures, if any, where the railroad has expended its own funds to provide added clearance for the proposed electrification. If available, the railroad's justification should include information on its contemplated treatment of existing grade separations along the section of its rail system proposed for electrification.
The cost of reconstructing or modifying any existing railroad-highway grade separation structures solely to accommodate electrification will not be eligible for Federal-aid highway fund participation.
c.
Railroad Structure Width
Two and eight tenths meters of structure width outside of the centerline of the outside tracks may be approved for a structure carrying railroad tracks. Greater structure width may be approved when in accordance with standards established and used by the affected railroad in its normal practice.
In order to maintain continuity of off-track equipment roadways at structures carrying tracks over limited access highways, consideration should be given at the preliminary design stage to the feasibility of using public road crossings for this purpose. Where not feasible, an additional structure width of 2.5 meters may be approved if designed for off-track equipment only.
[53 FR 32218, Aug. 24, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 45328, Aug. 27, 1997]
Pt. 650

# PART 650—BRIDGES, STRUCTURES, AND HYDRAULICS

# Subpart A—Location and Hydraulic Design of Encroachments on Flood Plains
Sec.
650.101
Purpose.
650.103
Policy.
650.105
Definitions.
650.107
Applicability.
650.109
Public involvement.
650.111
Location hydraulic studies.
650.113
Only practicable alternative finding.
650.115
Design standards.
650.117
Content of design studies.

# Subpart B—Erosion and Sediment Control on Highway Construction Projects
650.201
Purpose.
650.203
Policy.
650.205
Definitions.
650.207
Plans, specifications, and estimates.
650.209
Construction.
650.211
Guidelines.

# Subpart C—National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS)
650.301
Purpose.
650.303
Applicability.
650.305
Definitions.
650.307
Bridge inspection organization responsibilities.
650.309
Qualification of personnel.
650.311
Inspection interval.
650.313
Inspection procedures.
650.315
Inventory.
650.317
Incorporation by reference.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—National Tunnel Inspection Standards
650.501
Purpose.
650.503
Applicability.
650.505
Definitions.
650.507
Tunnel inspection organization responsibilities.
650.509
Qualifications of personnel.
650.511
Inspection interval.
650.513
Inspection procedures.
650.515
Inventory.
650.517
Incorporation by reference.
Subpart F [Reserved]
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Navigational Clearances for Bridges
650.801
Purpose.
650.803
Policy.
650.805
Bridges not requiring a USCG permit.
650.807
Bridges requiring a USCG permit.
650.809
Movable span bridges.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 119, 144, and 315.

# Subpart A—Location and Hydraulic Design of Encroachments on Flood Plains

# Source:
44 FR 67580, Nov. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.101
Purpose.
To prescribe Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) policies and procedures for the location and hydraulic design of highway encroachments on flood plains, including direct Federal highway projects administered by the FHWA.
§ 650.103
Policy.
It is the policy of the FHWA:
(a) To encourage a broad and unified effort to prevent uneconomic, hazardous or incompatible use and development of the Nation's flood plains,
(b) To avoid longitudinal encroachments, where practicable,
(c) To avoid significant encroachments, where practicable,
(d) To minimize impacts of highway agency actions which adversely affect base flood plains,
(e) To restore and preserve the natural and beneficial flood-plain values that are adversely impacted by highway agency actions,
(f) To avoid support of incompatible flood-plain development,
(g) To be consistent with the intent of the Standards and Criteria of the National Flood Insurance Program, where appropriate, and
(h) To incorporate “A Unified National Program for Floodplain Management” of the Water Resources Council into FHWA procedures.
§ 650.105
Definitions.
(a)
Action
shall mean any highway construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, or improvement undertaken with Federal or Federal-aid highway funds or FHWA approval.
(b)
Base flood
shall mean the flood or tide having a 1-percent chance of being exceeded in any given year.
(c)
Base flood plain
shall mean the area subject to flooding by the base flood.
(d)
Design Flood
shall mean the peak discharge, volume if appropriate, stage or wave crest elevation of the flood associated with the probability of exceedance selected for the design of a highway encroachment. By definition, the highway will not be inundated from the stage of the design flood.
(e)
Encroachment
shall mean an action within the limits of the base flood plain.
(f)
Floodproof
shall mean to design and construct individual buildings, facilities, and their sites to protect against structural failure, to keep water out or to reduce the effects of water entry.
(g)
Freeboard
shall mean the vertical clearance of the lowest structural member of the bridge superstructure above the water surface elevation of the overtopping flood.
(h)
Minimize
shall mean to reduce to the smallest practicable amount or degree.
(i)
Natural and beneficial flood-plain values
shall include but are not limited to fish, wildlife, plants, open space, natural beauty, scientific study, outdoor recreation, agriculture, aquaculture, forestry, natural moderation of floods, water quality maintenance, and groundwater recharge.
(j)
Overtopping flood
shall mean the flood described by the probability of exceedance and water surface elevation at which flow occurs over the highway, over the watershed divide, or through structure(s) provided for emergency relief.
(k)
Practicable
shall mean capable of being done within reasonable natural, social, or economic constraints.
(l)
Preserve
shall mean to avoid modification to the functions of the natural flood-plain environment or to maintain it as closely as practicable in its natural state.
(m)
Regulatory floodway
shall mean the flood-plain area that is reserved in an open manner by Federal, State or local requirements,
i.e.
, unconfined or unobstructed either horizontally or vertically, to provide for the discharge
of the base flood so that the cumulative increase in water surface elevation is no more than a designated amount (not to exceed 1 foot as established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for administering the National Flood Insurance Program).
(n)
Restore
shall mean to reestablish a setting or environment in which the functions of the natural and beneficial flood-plain values adversely impacted by the highway agency action can again operate.
(o)
Risk
shall mean the consequences associated with the probability of flooding attributable to an encroachment. It shall include the potential for property loss and hazard to life during the service life of the highway.
(p)
Risk analysis
shall mean an economic comparison of design alternatives using expected total costs (construction costs plus risk costs) to determine the alternative with the least total expected cost to the public. It shall include probable flood-related costs during the service life of the facility for highway operation, maintenance, and repair, for highway-aggravated flood damage to other property, and for additional or interrupted highway travel.
(q)
Significant encroachment
shall mean a highway encroachment and any direct support of likely base flood-plain development that would involve one or more of the following construction-or flood-related impacts:
(1) A significant potential for interruption or termination of a transportation facility which is needed for emergency vehicles or provides a community's only evacuation route.
(2) A significant risk, or
(3) A significant adverse impact on natural and beneficial flood-plain values.
(r)
Support base flood-plain development
shall mean to encourage, allow, serve, or otherwise facilitate additional base flood-plain development. Direct support results from an encroachment, while indirect support results from an action out of the base flood plain.
§ 650.107
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this regulation shall apply to all encroachments and to all actions which affect base flood plains, except for repairs made with emergency funds (23 CFR part 668) during or immediately following a disaster.
(b) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply to or alter approvals or authorizations which were given by FHWA pursuant to regulations or directives in effect before the effective date of this regulation.
§ 650.109
Public involvement.
Procedures which have been established to meet the public involvement requirements of 23 CFR part 771 shall be used to provide opportunity for early public review and comment on alternatives which contain encroachments.
[53 FR 11065, Apr. 5, 1988]
§ 650.111
Location hydraulic studies.
(a) National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps or information developed by the highway agency, if NFIP maps are not available, shall be used to determine whether a highway location alternative will include an encroachment.
(b) Location studies shall include evaluation and discussion of the practicability of alternatives to any longitudinal encroachments.
(c) Location studies shall include discussion of the following items, commensurate with the significance of the risk or environmental impact, for all alternatives containing encroachments and for those actions which would support base flood-plain development:
(1) The risks associated with implementation of the action,
(2) The impacts on natural and beneficial flood-plain values,
(3) The support of probable incompatible flood-plain development,
(4) The measures to minimize flood-plain impacts associated with the action, and
(5) The measures to restore and preserve the natural and beneficial flood-plain values impacted by the action.
(d) Location studies shall include evaluation and discussion of the practicability of alternatives to any significant encroachments or any support of incompatible flood-plain development.
(e) The studies required by § 650.111 (c) and (d) shall be summarized in environmental review documents prepared pursuant to 23 CFR part 771.
(f) Local, State, and Federal water resources and flood-plain management agencies should be consulted to determine if the proposed highway action is consistent with existing watershed and flood-plain management programs and to obtain current information on development and proposed actions in the affected watersheds.
§ 650.113
Only practicable alternative finding.
(a) A proposed action which includes a significant encroachment shall not be approved unless the FHWA finds that the proposed significant encroachment is the only practicable alternative. This finding shall be included in the final environmental document (final environmental impact statement or finding of no significant impact) and shall be supported by the following information:
(1) The reasons why the proposed action must be located in the flood plain,
(2) The alternatives considered and why they were not practicable, and
(3) A statement indicating whether the action conforms to applicable State or local flood-plain protection standards.
(b) [Reserved]
[44 FR 67580, Nov. 26, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 29274, June 24, 1983]
§ 650.115
Design standards.
(a) The design selected for an encroachment shall be supported by analyses of design alternatives with consideration given to capital costs and risks, and to other economic, engineering, social and environmental concerns.
(1) Consideration of capital costs and risks shall include, as appropriate, a risk analysis or assessment which includes:
(i) The overtopping flood or the base flood, whichever is greater, or
(ii) The greatest flood which must flow through the highway drainage structure(s), where overtopping is not practicable. The greatest flood used in the analysis is subject to state-of-the-art capability to estimate the exceedance probability.
(2) The design flood for encroachments by through lanes of Interstate highways shall not be less than the flood with a 2-percent chance of being exceeded in any given year. No minimum design flood is specified for Interstate highway ramps and frontage roads or for other highways.
(3) Freeboard shall be provided, where practicable, to protect bridge structures from debris- and scour-related failure.
(4) The effect of existing flood control channels, levees, and reservoirs shall be considered in estimating the peak discharge and stage for all floods considered in the design.
(5) The design of encroachments shall be consistent with standards established by the FEMA, State, and local governmental agencies for the administration of the National Flood Insurance Program for:
(i) All direct Federal highway actions, unless the standards are demonstrably inappropriate, and
(ii) Federal-aid highway actions where a regulatory floodway has been designated or where studies are underway to establish a regulatory floodway.
(b) Rest area buildings and related water supply and waste treatment facilities shall be located outside the base flood plain, where practicable. Rest area buildings which are located on the base flood plain shall be floodproofed against damage from the base flood.
(c) Where highway fills are to be used as dams to permanently impound water more than 50 acre-feet (6.17 × 10
4
cubic metres) in volume or 25 feet (7.6 metres) deep, the hydrologic, hydraulic, and structural design of the fill and appurtenant spillways shall have the approval of the State or Federal agency responsible for the safety of dams or like structures within the State, prior to authorization by the Division Administrator to advertise for bids for construction.
§ 650.117
Content of design studies.
(a) The detail of studies shall be commensurate with the risk associated with the encroachment and with other economic, engineering, social or environmental concerns.
(b) Studies by highway agencies shall contain:
(1) The hydrologic and hydraulic data and design computations,
(2) The analysis required by § 650.115(a), and
(3) For proposed direct Federal highway actions, the reasons, when applicable, why FEMA criteria (44 CFR 60.3, formerly 24 CFR 1910.3) are demonstrably inappropriate.
(c) For encroachment locations, project plans shall show:
(1) The magnitude, approximate probability of exceedance and, at appropriate locations, the water surface elevations associated with the overtopping flood or the flood of § 650.115(a)(1)(ii), and
(2) The magnitude and water surface elevation of the base flood, if larger than the overtopping flood.

# Subpart B—Erosion and Sediment Control on Highway Construction Projects

# Source:
59 FR 37939, July 26, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.201
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe policies and procedures for the control of erosion, abatement of water pollution, and prevention of damage by sediment deposition from all construction projects funded under title 23, United States Code.
§ 650.203
Policy.
It is the policy of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) that all highways funded in whole or in part under title 23, United States Code, shall be located, designed, constructed and operated according to standards that will minimize erosion and sediment damage to the highway and adjacent properties and abate pollution of surface and ground water resources. Guidance for the development of standards used to minimize erosion and sediment damage is referenced in § 650.211 of this part.
§ 650.205
Definitions.
Erosion control measures and practices
are actions that are taken to inhibit the dislodging and transporting of soil particles by water or wind, including actions that limit the area of exposed soil and minimize the time the soil is exposed.
Permanent erosion and sediment control measures and practices
are installations and design features of a construction project which remain in place and in service after completion of the project.
Pollutants
are substances, including sediment, which cause deterioration of water quality when added to surface or ground waters in sufficient quantity.
Sediment control measures and practices
are actions taken to control the deposition of sediments resulting from surface runoff.
Temporary erosion and sediment control measures and practices
are actions taken on an interim basis during construction to minimize the disturbance, transportation, and unwanted deposition of sediment.
§ 650.207
Plans, specifications and estimates.
(a) Emphasis shall be placed on erosion control in the preparation of plans, specifications and estimates.
(b) All reasonable steps shall be taken to insure that highway project designs for the control of erosion and sedimentation and the protection of water quality comply with applicable standards and regulations of other agencies.
[39 FR 36332, Oct. 9, 1974]
§ 650.209
Construction.
(a) Permanent erosion and sediment control measures and practices shall be established and implemented at the earliest practicable time consistent with good construction and management practices.
(b) Implementation of temporary erosion and sediment control measures and practices shall be coordinated with permanent measures to assure economical, effective, and continuous control throughout construction.
(c) Erosion and sediment control measures and practices shall be monitored and maintained or revised to insure that they are fulfilling their intended function during the construction of the project.
(d) Federal-aid funds shall not be used in erosion and sediment control actions made necessary because of contractor oversight, carelessness, or failure to implement sufficient control measures.
(e) Pollutants used during highway construction or operation and material from sediment traps shall not be stockpiled or disposed of in a manner which makes them susceptible to being washed into any watercourse by runoff or high water. No pollutants shall be deposited or disposed of in watercourses.
§ 650.211
Guidelines.
(a) The FHWA adopts the AASHTO Highway Drainage Guidelines, Volume III, “Erosion and Sediment Control in Highway Construction,” 1992,
1
as guidelines to be followed on all construction projects funded under title 23, United States Code. These guidelines are not intended to preempt any requirements made by or under State law if such requirements are more stringent.
1
This document is available for inspection from the FHWA headquarters and field offices as prescribed by 49 CFR part 7, appendix D. It may be purchased from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials offices at Suite 225, 444 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001.
(b) Each State highway agency should apply the guidelines referenced in paragraph (a) of this section or apply its own guidelines, if these guidelines are more stringent, to develop standards and practices for the control of erosion and sediment on Federal-aid construction projects. These specific standards and practices may reference available resources, such as the procedures presented in the AASHTO “Model Drainage Manual,” 1991.
2
2
This document is available for inspection from the FHWA headquarters and field offices as prescribed by 49 CFR part 7, appendix D. It may be purchased from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials offices at Suite 225, 444 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001.
(c) Consistent with the requirements of section 6217(g) of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388-299), highway construction projects funded under title 23, United States Code, and located in the coastal zone management areas of States with coastal zone management programs approved by the United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, should utilize “Guidance Specifying Management Measures for Sources of Nonpoint Source Pollution in Coastal Waters,” 84-B-92-002, U.S. EPA, January 1993.
3
State highway agencies should refer to this Environmental Protection Agency guidance document for the design of projects within coastal zone management areas.
3
This document is available for inspection and copying as prescribed by 49 CFR part 7, appendix D.

# Subpart C—National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS)

# Source:
87 FR 27429, May 6, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.301
Purpose.
This subpart sets the national minimum standards for the proper safety inspection and evaluation of all highway bridges in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 144(h) and the requirements for preparing and maintaining an inventory in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 144(b).
§ 650.303
Applicability.
The National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS) in this subpart apply to all structures defined as highway bridges located on all public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, including tribally-owned and federally-owned bridges, private bridges that are connected to a public road on both ends of the bridge, temporary bridges, and bridges under construction with portions open to traffic.
§ 650.305
Definitions.
The following terms used in this subpart are defined as follows:
AASHTO Manual.
The term “AASHTO Manual” means the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) “Manual for Bridge Evaluation”, including Interim Revisions, excluding the 3rd paragraph in Article 6B.7.1, incorporated by reference in § 650.317.
Attribute.
Characteristic of the design, loading, conditions, and environment that affect the reliability of a bridge or bridge member.
Bridge.
A structure including supports erected over a depression or an obstruction, such as water, highway, or railway, and having a track or passageway for carrying traffic or other moving loads, and having an opening measured along the center of the roadway of more than 20 feet between under copings of abutments or spring lines of arches, or extreme ends of openings for multiple boxes; it includes multiple pipes, where the clear distance between openings is less than half of the smaller contiguous opening.
Bridge inspection experience.
Active participation in bridge inspections in accordance with the this subpart, in either a field inspection, supervisory, or management role. Some of the experience may come from relevant bridge design, bridge load rating, bridge construction, and bridge maintenance experience provided it develops the skills necessary to properly perform a NBIS bridge inspection.
Bridge inspection refresher training.
The National Highway Institute
1
(NHI) “Bridge Inspection Refresher Training Course” or other State, federally, or tribally developed instruction aimed to improve quality of inspections, introduce new techniques, and maintain consistency in the inspection program.
1
The NHI training may be found at the following URL:
www.nhi.fhwa.dot.gov/.
Bridge Inspector's Reference Manual
or
the BIRM.
A comprehensive FHWA manual on procedures and techniques for inspecting and evaluating a variety of in-service highway bridges. This manual is available at the following URL:
www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/nbis.cfm.
This manual may be purchased from the Government Publishing Office, Washington, DC 20402 and from National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161.
Complex feature.
Bridge component(s) or member(s) with advanced or unique structural members or operational characteristics, construction methods, and/or requiring specific inspection procedures. This includes mechanical and electrical elements of moveable spans and cable-related members of suspension and cable-stayed superstructures.
Comprehensive bridge inspection training.
Training that covers all aspects of bridge inspection and enables inspectors to relate conditions observed on a bridge to established criteria (see the BIRM for the recommended material to be covered in a comprehensive training course).
Consequence.
A measure of impacts to structural safety and serviceability in a hypothetical scenario where a deterioration mode progresses to the point of requiring immediate action. This may include costs to restore the bridge to safe operating condition or other costs.
Critical finding.
A structural or safety related deficiency that requires immediate action to ensure public safety.
Damage inspection.
An unscheduled inspection to assess structural damage resulting from environmental factors or human actions.
Deterioration mode.
Typical deterioration or damage affecting the condition of a bridge member that may affect the structural safety or serviceability of the bridge.
Element level bridge inspection data.
Quantitative condition assessment data, collected during bridge inspections, that indicates the severity and extent of defects in bridge elements.
End-of-course assessment.
A comprehensive examination given to students after the completion of the delivery of a training course.
Hands-on inspection.
Inspection within arm's length of the member. Inspection uses visual techniques that may be supplemented by nondestructive evaluation techniques.
Highway.
The term “highway” is defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.
In-depth inspection.
A close-up, detailed inspection of one or more bridge members located above or below water, using visual or nondestructive evaluation techniques as required to identify any deficiencies not readily detectable using routine inspection procedures. Hands-on inspection may be necessary at some locations. In-depth inspections may occur more or less frequently than routine inspections, as outlined in bridge specific inspection procedures.
Initial inspection.
The first inspection of a new, replaced, or rehabilitated bridge. This inspection serves to record required bridge inventory data, establish baseline conditions, and establish the intervals for other inspection types.
Inspection date.
The date on which the field portion of the bridge inspection is completed.
Inspection due date.
The last inspection date plus the current inspection interval.
Inspection report.
The document which summarizes the bridge inspection findings, recommendations, and identifies the team leader responsible for the inspection and report.
Internal redundancy.
A redundancy that exists within a primary member cross-section without load path redundancy, such that fracture of one component will not propagate through the entire member, is discoverable by the applicable inspection procedures, and will not cause a portion of or the entire bridge to collapse.
Inventory data.
All data reported to the National Bridge Inventory (NBI) in accordance with the § 650.315.
Legal load.
The maximum load for each vehicle configuration, including the weight of the vehicle and its payload, permitted by law for the State in which the bridge is located.
Legal load rating.
The maximum permissible legal load to which the structure may be subjected with the unlimited numbers of passages over the duration of a specified bridge evaluation period. Legal load rating is a term used in Load and Resistance Factor Rating method.
Load path redundancy.
A redundancy that exists based on the number of primary load-carrying members between points of support, such that fracture of the cross section at one location of a member will not cause a portion of or the entire bridge to collapse.
Load posting.
Regulatory signs installed in accordance with 23 CFR 655.601 and State or local law which represent the maximum vehicular live load which the bridge may safely carry.
Load rating.
The analysis to determine the safe vehicular live load carrying capacity of a bridge using bridge plans and supplemented by measurements and other information gathered from an inspection.
Nationally certified bridge inspector.
An individual meeting the team leader requirements of § 650.309(b).
Nonredundant Steel Tension Member (NSTM).
A primary steel member fully or partially in tension, and without load path redundancy, system redundancy or internal redundancy, whose failure may cause a portion of or the entire bridge to collapse.
NSTM inspection.
A hands-on inspection of a nonredundant steel tension member.
NSTM inspection training.
Training that covers all aspects of NSTM inspections to relate conditions observed on a bridge to established criteria.
Operating rating.
The maximum permissible live load to which the structure may be subjected for the load configuration used in the load rating. Allowing unlimited numbers of vehicles to use the bridge at operating level may shorten the life of the bridge. Operating rating is a term used in either the Allowable Stress or Load Factor Rating method.
Private bridge.
A bridge open to public travel and not owned by a public authority as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.
Procedures.
Written documentation of policies, methods, considerations, criteria, and other conditions that direct the actions of personnel so that a desired end result is achieved consistently.
Probability.
Extent to which an event is likely to occur during a given interval. This may be based on the frequency of events, such as in the quantitative probability of failure, or on degree of belief or expectation. Degrees of belief about probability can be chosen
using qualitative scales, ranks, or categories such as, remote, low, moderate, or high.
Professional engineer (PE).
An individual, who has fulfilled education and experience requirements and passed examinations for professional engineering and/or structural engineering license that, under State licensure laws, permits the individual to offer engineering services within areas of expertise directly to the public.
Program manager.
The individual in charge of the program, that has been assigned the duties and responsibilities for bridge inspection, reporting, and inventory, and has the overall responsibility to ensure the program conforms with the requirements of this subpart. The program manager provides overall leadership and is available to inspection team leaders to provide guidance.
Public road.
The term “public road” is defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.
Quality assurance (QA).
The use of sampling and other measures to assure the adequacy of QC procedures in order to verify or measure the quality level of the entire bridge inspection and load rating program.
Quality control (QC).
Procedures that are intended to maintain the quality of a bridge inspection and load rating at or above a specified level.
Rehabilitation.
The major work required to restore the structural integrity of a bridge as well as work necessary to correct major safety defects.
Risk.
The exposure to the possibility of structural safety or serviceability loss during the interval between inspections. It is the combination of the probability of an event and its consequence.
Risk assessment panel (RAP).
A group of well experienced panel members that performs a rigorous assessment of risk to establish policy for bridge inspection intervals.
Routine inspection.
Regularly scheduled comprehensive inspection consisting of observations and measurements needed to determine the physical and functional condition of the bridge and identify changes from previously recorded conditions.
Routine permit load.
A live load, which has a gross weight, axle weight, or distance between axles not conforming with State statutes for legally configured vehicles, authorized for unlimited trips over an extended period of time to move alongside other heavy vehicles on a regular basis.
Safe load capacity.
A live load that can safely utilize a bridge repeatedly over the duration of a specified inspection interval.
Scour.
Erosion of streambed or bank material due to flowing water; often considered as being localized around piers and abutments of bridges.
Scour appraisal.
A risk-based and data-driven determination of a bridge's vulnerability to scour, resulting from the least stable result of scour that is either observed, or estimated through a scour evaluation or a scour assessment.
Scour assessment.
The determination of an existing bridge's vulnerability to scour which considers stream stability and scour potential.
Scour critical bridge.
A bridge with a foundation member that is unstable, or may become unstable, as determined by the scour appraisal.
Scour evaluation.
The application of hydraulic analysis to estimate scour depths and determine bridge and substructure stability considering potential scour.
Scour plan of action (POA).
Procedures for bridge inspectors and engineers in managing each bridge determined to be scour critical or that has unknown foundations.
Service inspection.
An inspection to identify major deficiencies and safety issues, performed by personnel with general knowledge of bridge maintenance or bridge inspection.
Special inspection.
An inspection scheduled at the discretion of the bridge owner, used to monitor a particular known or suspected deficiency, or to monitor special details or unusual characteristics of a bridge that does not necessarily have defects.
Special permit load.
A live load, which has a gross weight, axle weight, or distance between axles not conforming with State statutes for legally configured vehicles and routine permit loads, typically authorized for single or limited trips.
State transportation department.
The term “State transportation department” is defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.
System redundancy.
A redundancy that exists in a bridge system without load path redundancy, such that fracture of the cross section at one location of a primary member will not cause a portion of or the entire bridge to collapse.
Team leader.
The on-site, nationally certified bridge inspector in charge of an inspection team and responsible for planning, preparing, performing, and reporting on bridge field inspections.
Temporary bridge.
A bridge which is constructed to carry highway traffic until the permanent facility is built, repaired, rehabilitated, or replaced.
Underwater bridge inspection diver.
The individual performing the inspection of the underwater portion of the bridge.
Underwater Bridge Inspection Manual.
A comprehensive FHWA manual on the procedures and techniques for underwater bridge inspection. This manual is available at the following URL:
www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/nbis.cfm.
This manual may be purchased from the Government Publishing Office, Washington, DC 20402 and from National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161.
Underwater bridge inspection training.
Training that covers all aspects of underwater bridge inspection to relate the conditions of underwater bridge members to established criteria (see Underwater Bridge Inspection Manual and the BIRM section on underwater inspection for the recommended material to be covered in an underwater bridge inspection training course).
Underwater inspection.
Inspection of the underwater portion of a bridge substructure and the surrounding channel, which cannot be inspected visually at low water or by wading or probing, and generally requiring diving or other appropriate techniques.
Unknown Foundations.
Foundations of bridges over waterways where complete details are unknown because either the foundation type and depth are unknown, or the foundation type is known, but its depth is unknown, and therefore cannot be appraised for scour vulnerability.
§ 650.307
Bridge inspection organization responsibilities.
(a) Each State transportation department must perform, or cause to be performed, the proper inspection and evaluation of all highway bridges that are fully or partially located within the State's boundaries, except for bridges that are owned by Federal agencies or Tribal governments.
(b) Each Federal agency must perform, or cause to be performed, the proper inspection and evaluation of all highway bridges that are fully or partially located within the respective Federal agency's responsibility or jurisdiction.
(c) Each Tribal government, in consultation with the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or FHWA, must perform, or cause to be performed, the proper inspection and evaluation of all highway bridges that are fully or partially located within the respective Tribal government's responsibility or jurisdiction.
(d) Where a bridge crosses a border between a State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government jurisdiction, all entities must determine through a joint written agreement the responsibilities of each entity for that bridge under this subpart, including the designated lead State for reporting NBI data.
(e) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, and Tribal government must include a bridge inspection organization that is responsible for the following:
(1) Developing and implementing written Statewide, Federal agencywide, or Tribal governmentwide bridge inspection policies and procedures;
(2) Maintaining a registry of nationally certified bridge inspectors that are performing the duties of a team leader in their State or Federal agency or Tribal government that includes, at a minimum, a method to positively identify each inspector, inspector's qualification records, inspector's current contact information, and detailed information about any adverse action that may affect the good standing of the inspector;
(3) Documenting the criteria for inspection intervals for the inspection types identified in these standards;
(4) Documenting the roles and responsibilities of personnel involved in the bridge inspection program;
(5) Managing bridge inspection reports and files;
(6) Performing quality control and quality assurance activities;
(7) Preparing, maintaining, and reporting bridge inventory data;
(8) Producing valid load ratings and when required, implementing load posting or other restrictions;
(9) Managing the activities and corrective actions taken in response to a critical finding;
(10) Managing scour appraisals and scour plans of action; and
(11) Managing other requirements of these standards.
(f) Functions identified in paragraphs (e)(3) through (11) of this section may be delegated to other individuals, agencies, or entities. The delegated roles and functions of all individuals, agencies, and entities involved must be documented by the responsible State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government. Except as provided below, such delegation does not relieve the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government of any of its responsibilities under this subpart. A Tribal government may, with BIA's or FHWA's concurrence via a formal written agreement, delegate its functions and responsibilities under this subpart to the BIA or FHWA.
(g) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government bridge inspection organization must have a program manager with the qualifications defined in § 650.309(a). An employee of the BIA or FHWA having the qualification of a program manager as defined in § 650.309(a) may serve as the program manager for a Tribal government if the Tribal government delegates this responsibility to the BIA or FHWA in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
§ 650.309
Qualifications of personnel.
(a) A program manager must, at a minimum:
(1) Be a registered Professional Engineer, or have 10 years of bridge inspection experience;
(2) Complete an FHWA-approved comprehensive bridge inspection training course as described in paragraph (h) of this section and score 70 percent or greater on an end-of-course assessment (completion of FHWA-approved comprehensive bridge inspection training under FHWA regulations in this subpart in effect before June 6, 2022, satisfies the intent of the requirement in this paragraph (a));
(3) Complete a cumulative total of 18 hours of FHWA-approved bridge inspection refresher training over each 60 month period;
(4) Maintain documentation supporting the satisfaction of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section; and
(5) Satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (a) within 24 months from June 6, 2022, if serving as a program manager who was qualified under prior FHWA regulations in this subpart.
(b) A team leader must, at a minimum:
(1) Meet one of the four qualifications listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:
(i) Be a registered Professional Engineer and have 6 months of bridge inspection experience;
(ii) Have 5 years of bridge inspection experience;
(iii) Have all of the following:
(A) A bachelor's degree in engineering or engineering technology from a college or university accredited by or determined as substantially equivalent by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology; and
(B) Successfully passed the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying Fundamentals of Engineering examination; and
(C) Two (2) years of bridge inspection experience; or
(iv) Have all of the following:
(A) An associate's degree in engineering or engineering technology from a college or university accredited by or determined as substantially equivalent by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology; and
(B) Four (4) years of bridge inspection experience;
(2) Complete an FHWA-approved comprehensive bridge inspection training course as described in paragraph (h) of this section and score 70 percent or
greater on an end-of-course assessment (completion of FHWA-approved comprehensive bridge inspection training under FHWA regulations in this subpart in effect before June 6, 2022, satisfies the intent of the requirement in this paragraph (b));
(3) Complete a cumulative total of 18 hours of FHWA-approved bridge inspection refresher training over each 60 month period;
(4) Provide documentation supporting the satisfaction of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section to the program manager of each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government for which they are performing bridge inspections; and
(5) Satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b) within 24 months from June 6, 2022, if serving as a team leader who was qualified under prior FHWA regulations in this subpart.
(c) Team leaders on NSTM inspections must, at a minimum:
(1) Meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Complete an FHWA-approved training course on the inspection of NSTMs as defined in paragraph (h) of this section and score 70 percent or greater on an end-of-course assessment (completion of FHWA-approved NSTM inspection training prior to June 6, 2022, satisfies the intent of the requirement in this paragraph (c)); and
(3) Satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (c) within 24 months from June 6, 2022.
(d) Load ratings must be performed by, or under the direct supervision of, a registered professional engineer.
(e) An Underwater Bridge Inspection Diver must complete FHWA-approved underwater bridge inspection training as described in paragraph (h) of this section and score 70 percent or greater on an end-of-course assessment (completion of FHWA-approved comprehensive bridge inspection training or FHWA-approved underwater bridge inspection training under FHWA regulations in this subpart in effect before June 6, 2022, satisfies the intent of the requirement in this paragraph (e)).
(f) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, and Tribal governments must establish documented personnel qualifications for Damage and Special Inspection types.
(g) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, and Tribal governments that establish risk-based routine inspection intervals that exceed 48 months under § 650.311(a)(2) must establish documented personnel qualifications for the Service Inspection type.
(h) The following are considered acceptable bridge inspection training:
(1)
National Highway Institute training.
Acceptable NHI courses include:
(i) Comprehensive bridge inspection training, which must include topics of importance to bridge inspection; bridge mechanics and terminology; personal and public safety issues associated with bridge inspections; properties and deficiencies of concrete, steel, timber, and masonry; inspection equipment needs for various types of bridges and site conditions; inspection procedures, evaluations, documentation, data collection, and critical findings for bridge decks, superstructures, substructures, culverts, waterways (including underwater members), joints, bearings, drainage systems, lighting, signs, and traffic safety features; nondestructive evaluation techniques; load path redundancy and fatigue concepts; and practical applications of the concepts listed in this paragraph (h)(1)(i);
(ii) Bridge inspection refresher training, which must include topics on documentation of inspections, commonly miscoded items, recognition of critical inspection findings, recent events impacting bridge inspections, and quality assurance activities;
(iii) Underwater bridge inspection training, which must include topics on the need for and benefits of underwater bridge inspections; typical defects and deterioration in underwater members; inspection equipment needs for various types of bridges and site conditions; inspection planning and hazard analysis; and underwater inspection procedures, evaluations, documentation, data collection, and critical findings; and
(iv) NSTM inspection training, which must include topics on the identification of NSTMs and related problematic structural details; the recognition of areas most susceptible to fatigue and fracture; the evaluation and recording
of defects on NSTMs; and the application of nondestructive evaluation techniques.
(2)
FHWA approval of alternate training.
A State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government may submit to FHWA a training course as an alternate to any of the NHI courses listed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. An alternate must include all the topics described in paragraph (h)(1) and be consistent with the related content. FHWA must approve alternate course materials and end-of-course assessments for national consistency and certification purposes. Alternate training courses must be reviewed by the program manager every 5 years to ensure the material is current. Updates to approved course materials and end-of-course assessments must be resubmitted to FHWA for approval.
(3)
FHWA-approved alternate training under prior regulations.
Agencies that have alternate training courses approved by FHWA prior to June 6, 2022, have 24 months to review and update training materials to satisfy requirements as defined in § 650.305 and paragraph (h)(1) of this section and resubmit to FHWA for approval.
§ 650.311
Inspection interval.
(a)
Routine inspections.
Each bridge must be inspected at regular intervals not to exceed the interval established using one of the risk-based methods outlined in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Method 1.
Inspection intervals are determined by a simplified assessment of risk to classify each bridge into one of three categories with an inspection interval as described below.
(i)
Regular intervals.
Each bridge must be inspected at regular intervals not to exceed 24 months, except as required in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section and allowed in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Reduced intervals.
(A) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments must develop and document criteria used to determine when intervals must be reduced below 24 months. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition ratings, scour, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(B) Certain bridges meeting any of the following criteria as recorded in the National Bridge Inventory (NBI) (see § 650.315) must be inspected at intervals not to exceed 12 months:
(
1
) One or more of the deck, superstructure, or substructure, or culvert components is rated in serious or worse condition, as recorded by the Deck, Superstructure, or Substructure Condition Rating items, or the Culvert Condition Rating item, coded three (3) or less; or
(
2
) The observed scour condition is rated serious or worse, as recorded by the Scour Condition Rating item coded three (3) or less.
(C) Where condition ratings are coded three (3) or less due to localized deficiencies, a special inspection limited to those deficiencies, as described in § 650.313(h), can be used to meet this requirement in lieu of a routine inspection. In such cases, a complete routine inspection must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Extended intervals.
(A) Certain bridges meeting all of the following criteria as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) may be inspected at intervals not to exceed 48 months:
(
1
) The deck, superstructure, and substructure, or culvert, components are all rated in satisfactory or better condition, as recorded by the Deck, Superstructure, and Substructure Condition Rating items, or the Culvert Condition Rating item coded six (6) or greater;
(
2
) The channel and channel protection are rated in satisfactory or better condition, as recorded by the Channel Condition and Channel Protection Condition items coded six (6) or greater;
(
3
) The inventory rating is greater than or equal to the standard AASHTO HS-20 or HL-93 loading and routine permit loads are not restricted or not carried/issued, as recorded by the Inventory Load Rating Factor item coded greater than or equal to 1.0 and the Routine Permit Loads item coded A or N;
(
4
) A steel bridge does not have Category E or E' fatigue details, as recorded by the Fatigue Details item coded N;
(
5
) All roadway vertical clearances are greater than or equal to 14′-0″, as recorded in the Highway Minimum Vertical Clearance item;
(
6
) All superstructure materials limited to concrete and steel and all superstructure types limited to certain arches, box girders/beams, frames, girders/beams, slabs, and culverts, as recorded by the Span Material items coded C01-C05 or S01-S05, and the Span Type items coded A01, B02-B03, F01-F02, G01-G08, S01-S02, or P01-P02; and
(
7
) Stable for potential scour and observed scour condition is rated satisfactory or better, as recorded by the Scour Vulnerability item coded A or B and the Scour Condition Rating item coded six (6) or greater.
(B) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments that implement paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(A) of this section must develop and document an extended interval policy and must notify FHWA in writing prior to implementation. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition ratings, scour, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(2)
Method 2.
Inspection intervals are determined by a more rigorous assessment of risk to classify each bridge, or a group of bridges, into one of four categories, with inspection intervals not to exceed 12, 24, 48, or 72 months. The risk assessment process must be developed by a Risk Assessment Panel (RAP) and documented as a formal policy. The RAP must be comprised of not less than four people, at least two of which are professional engineers, with collective knowledge in bridge design, evaluation, inspection, maintenance, materials, and construction, and include the NBIS program manager. The policy and criteria which establishes intervals, including subsequent changes, must be submitted by the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government for FHWA approval. The request must include the items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section:
(i) Endorsement from a RAP, which must be used to develop a formal policy.
(ii) Definitions for risk factors, categories, and the probability and consequence levels that are used to define the risk for each bridge to be assessed.
(iii) Deterioration modes and attributes that are used in classifying probability and consequence levels, depending on their relevance to the bridge being considered. A system of screening, scoring, and thresholds are defined by the RAP to assess the risks. Scoring is based on prioritizing attributes and their relative influence on deterioration modes.
(A) A set of screening criteria must be used to determine how a bridge should be considered in the assessment and to establish maximum inspection intervals. The screening criteria must include:
(
1
) Requirements for flexure and shear cracking in concrete primary load members;
(
2
) Requirements for fatigue cracking and corrosion in steel primary load members;
(
3
) Requirements for other details, loadings, conditions, and inspection findings that are likely to affect the safety or serviceability of the bridge or its members;
(
4
) Bridges classified as in poor condition cannot have an inspection interval greater than 24 months; and
(
5
) Bridges classified as in fair condition cannot have an inspection interval greater than 48 months.
(B) The attributes in each assessment must include material properties, loads and safe load capacity, and condition.
(C) The deterioration modes in each assessment must include:
(
1
) For steel members: Section loss, fatigue, and fracture;
(
2
) For concrete members: Flexural cracking, shear cracking, and reinforcing and prestressing steel corrosion;
(
3
) For superstructure members: Settlement, rotation, overload, and vehicle/vessel impact; and
(
4
) For substructure members: Settlement, rotation, and scour.
(D) A set of criteria to assess risk for each bridge member in terms of probability and consequence of structural safety or serviceability loss in the time between inspections.
(iv) A set of risk assessment criteria, written in standard logical format amenable for computer programming.
(v) Supplemental inspection procedures and data collection that are aligned with the level of inspection required to obtain the data to apply the criteria.
(vi) A list classifying each bridge into one of four risk categories with a routine inspection interval not to exceed 12, 24, 48, or 72 months.
(3)
Service inspection.
A service inspection must be performed during the month midway between routine inspections when a risk-based, routine inspection interval exceeds 48 months.
(4)
Additional routine inspection interval eligibility.
Any new, rehabilitated, or structurally modified bridge must receive an initial inspection, be in service for 24 months, and receive its next routine inspection before being eligible for inspection intervals greater than 24 months.
(b)
Underwater inspections.
Each bridge must be inspected at regular intervals not to exceed the interval established using one of the risk-based methods outlined in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Method 1.
Inspection intervals are determined by a simplified assessment of risk to classify each bridge into one of three categories for an underwater inspection interval as described in this section.
(i)
Regular intervals.
Each bridge must be inspected at regular intervals not to exceed 60 months, except as required in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and allowed in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Reduced intervals.
(A) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments must develop and document criteria used to determine when intervals must be reduced below 60 months. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition ratings, scour, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle/vessel impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(B) Certain bridges meeting at least any of the following criteria as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) must be inspected at intervals not to exceed 24 months:
(
1
) The underwater portions of the bridge are in serious or worse condition, as recorded by the Underwater Inspection Condition item coded three (3) or less;
(
2
) The channel or channel protection is in serious or worse condition, as recorded by the Channel Condition and Channel Protection Condition items coded three (3) or less; or
(
3
) The observed scour condition is three (3) or less, as recorded by the Scour Condition Rating item.
(C) Where condition ratings are coded three (3) or less due to localized deficiencies, a special inspection of the underwater portions of the bridge limited to those deficiencies, as described in § 650.313(h), can be used to meet this requirement in lieu of a complete underwater inspection. In such cases, a complete underwater inspection must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Extended intervals.
(A) Certain bridges meeting all of the following criteria as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) may be inspected at intervals not to exceed 72 months:
(
1
) The underwater portions of the bridge are in satisfactory or better condition, as recorded by the Underwater Inspection Condition item coded six (6) or greater;
(
2
) The channel and channel protection are in satisfactory or better condition, as indicated by the Channel Condition and Channel Protection Condition items coded six (6) or greater;
(
3
) Stable for potential scour, Scour Vulnerability item coded A or B, and Scour Condition Rating item is satisfactory or better, coded six (6) or greater.
(B) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments that implement paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section must develop and document an underwater extended interval policy and must notify
FHWA in writing prior to implementation. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition ratings, scour, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle/vessel impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(2) Method 2.
Inspection intervals are determined by a more rigorous assessment of risk. The policy and criteria which establishes intervals, including subsequent changes, must be submitted by the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government for FHWA approval. The process and criteria must be similar to that outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section except that each bridge must be classified into one of three risk categories with an underwater inspection interval not to exceed 24, 60, and 72 months.
(c)
NSTM inspections.
NSTMs must be inspected at regular intervals not to exceed the interval established using one of the risk-based methods outlined in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Method 1.
Inspection intervals are determined by a simplified assessment of risk to classify each bridge into one of three risk categories with an interval not to exceed 12, 24, or 48 months.
(i)
Regular intervals.
Each NSTM must be inspected at intervals not to exceed 24 months except as required in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section and allowed in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Reduced intervals.
(A) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments must develop and document criteria to determine when intervals must be reduced below 24 months. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(B) Certain NSTMs meeting the following criteria as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) must be inspected at intervals not to exceed 12 months:
(
1
) The NSTMs are rated in poor or worse condition, as recorded by the NSTM Inspection Condition item, coded 4 or less; or
(
2
) [Reserved].
(iii)
Extended intervals.
(A) Certain NSTMs meeting all of the following criteria may be inspected at intervals not to exceed 48 months:
(
1
) Bridge was constructed after 1978 as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) Year Built item and fabricated in accordance with a fracture control plan;
(
2
) All NSTMs have no fatigue details with finite life;
(
3
) All NSTMs have no history of fatigue cracks;
(
4
) All NSTMs are rated in satisfactory or better condition, as recorded in the NBI (see § 650.315) by the NSTM Inspection Condition item, coded 6 or greater; and
(
5
) The bridge's inventory rating is greater than or equal to the standard AASHTO HS-20 or HL-93 loading and routine permit loads are not restricted or not carried/issued, as recorded in the NBI (
see
§ 650.315) by the Inventory Load Rating Factor item coded greater than or equal to 1.0 and the Routine Permit Loads item coded A or N;
(
6
) All NSTMs do not include pin and hanger assemblies.
(B) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, or Tribal governments that implement paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section must develop and document an extended interval policy, and notify FHWA in writing prior to implementation. Factors to consider include structure type, design, materials, age, condition, environment, annual average daily traffic and annual average daily truck traffic, history of vehicle impact damage, loads and safe load capacity, and other known deficiencies.
(2) Method 2.
Inspection intervals are determined by a more rigorous assessment of risk. The policy and criteria which establishes intervals, including subsequent changes must be submitted by the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government for FHWA approval. The process and criteria must be similar to that outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section except that each bridge must be classified into one of three risk categories with a NSTM inspection interval not to exceed 12, 24, or 48 months.
(d)
Damage, in-depth, and special inspections.
A State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government must document the criteria to determine the level and interval for these inspections in its bridge inspection policies and procedures.
(e)
Bridge inspection interval tolerance.
(1) The acceptable tolerance for intervals of less than 24 months for the next inspection is up to two (2) months after the month in which the inspection was due.
(2) The acceptable tolerance for intervals of 24 months or greater for the next inspection is up to three (3) months after the month in which the inspection was due.
(3) Exceptions to the inspection interval tolerance due to rare and unusual circumstances must be approved by FHWA in advance of the inspection due date plus the tolerance in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(f)
Next inspection.
Establish the next inspection interval for each inspection type based on results of the inspection and requirements of this section.
(g)
Implementation.
(1) The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(ii), and (c)(1)(ii) of this section must be satisfied within 24 months from June 6, 2022.
(2) Prior FHWA approved extended inspection interval policies will be rescinded 24 months after June 6, 2022.
§ 650.313
Inspection procedures.
(a)
General.
Inspect each bridge to determine condition, identify deficiencies, and document results in an inspection report in accordance with the inspection procedures in Section 4.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317). Special equipment or techniques, and/or traffic control are necessary for inspections in circumstances where their use provide the only practical means of accessing and/or determining the condition of the bridge. The equipment may include advanced technologies listed in the BIRM.
(b)
Initial inspection.
Perform an initial inspection in accordance with Section 4.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317) for each new, replaced, rehabilitated, and temporary bridge as soon as practical, but within 3 months of the bridge opening to traffic.
(c)
Routine inspection.
Perform a routine inspection in accordance with Section 4.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317).
(d)
In-depth inspection.
Identify the location of bridge members that need an in-depth inspection and document in the bridge files. Perform in-depth inspections in accordance with the procedures developed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(e)
Underwater inspection.
Identify the locations of underwater portions of the bridge in the bridge files that cannot be inspected using wading and probing during a routine inspection. Perform underwater inspections in accordance with the procedures developed in paragraph (g) of this section. Perform the first underwater inspection for each bridge and for each bridge with portions underwater that have been rehabilitated as soon as practical, but within 12 months of the bridge opening to traffic.
(f)
NSTM inspection.
(1) Identify the locations of NSTMs in the bridge files.
(i) A State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government may choose to demonstrate a member has system or internal redundancy such that it is not considered an NSTM. The entity may develop and submit a formal request for FHWA approval of procedures using a nationally recognized method to determine that a member has system or internal redundancy. FHWA will review the procedures for approval based upon conformance with the nationally recognized method. The request must include:
(A) Written policy and procedures for determining system or internal redundancy.
(B) Identification of the nationally recognized method used to determine system or internal redundancy. Nationally recognized means developed, endorsed and disseminated by a national organization with affiliates based in two or more States; or currently adopted for use by one or more State governments or by the Federal Government; and is the most current version.
(C) Baseline condition of the bridge(s) to which the policy is being applied.
(D) Description of design and construction details on the member(s) that may affect the system or internal redundancy.
(E) Routine inspection requirements for bridges with system or internally redundant members.
(F) Special inspection requirements for the members with system or internal redundancy.
(G) Evaluation criteria for when members should be reviewed to ensure they still have system and internal redundancy.
(ii) Inspect the bridge using the approved methods outlined in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(E) and (F) of this section.
(2) Perform hands-on inspections of NSTMs in accordance with the procedures developed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) Perform the first NSTM inspection for each bridge and for each bridge with rehabilitated NSTMs as soon as practical, but within 12 months of the bridge opening to traffic.
(g)
NSTM, underwater, in-depth, and complex feature inspection procedures.
Develop and document inspection procedures for bridges which require NSTM, underwater, in-depth, and complex feature inspections in accordance with Section 4.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317). State transportation departments, Federal agencies, and Tribal governments can include general procedures applicable to many bridges in their procedures manual. Specific procedures for unique and complex structural features must be developed for each bridge and contained in the bridge file.
(h)
Special inspection.
For special inspections used to monitor conditions as described in § 650.311(a)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(ii), develop and document procedures in accordance with Section 4.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317).
(i)
Service inspection.
Perform a service inspection when the routine inspection interval is greater than 48 months. Document the inspection date and any required follow up actions in the bridge file.
(j)
Team leader.
Provide at least one team leader at the bridge who meets the minimum qualifications stated in § 650.309 and actively participates in the inspection at all times during each initial, routine, in-depth, NSTM, underwater inspection, and special inspection described in paragraph (h) of this section.
(k)
Load rating.
(1) Rate each bridge as to its safe load capacity in accordance with Sections 6 and 8, excluding the 3rd paragraph in Article 6B.7.1, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317).
(2) Develop and document procedures for completion of new and updated bridge load ratings. Load ratings must be completed as soon as practical, but no later than 3 months after the initial inspection and when a change is identified that warrants a re-rating such as, but not limited to, changes in condition, reconstruction, new construction, or changes in dead or live loads.
(3) Analyze routine and special permit loads for each bridge that these loads cross to verify the bridge can safely carry the load.
(l)
Load posting.
(1) Implement load posting or restriction for a bridge in accordance with the incorporated articles in Section 6, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317), when the maximum unrestricted legal loads or State routine permit loads exceed that allowed under the operating rating, legal load rating, or permit load analysis.
(2) Develop and document procedures for timely load posting based upon the load capacity and characteristics such as annual average daily traffic, annual average daily truck traffic, and loading conditions. Posting shall be made as soon as possible but not later than 30 days after a load rating determines a need for such posting. Implement load posting in accordance with these procedures.
(3) Missing or illegible posting signs shall be corrected as soon as possible but not later than 30 days after inspection or other notification determines a need.
(m)
Closed bridges.
Develop and document criteria for closing a bridge which considers condition and load carrying capacity for each legal vehicle. Bridges that meet the criteria must be closed immediately. Bridges must be closed when the gross live load capacity is less than 3 tons.
(n)
Bridge files.
Prepare and maintain bridge files in accordance with Section 2.2, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317).
(o)
Scour.
(1) Perform a scour appraisal for all bridges over water, and document the process and results in the bridge file. Re-appraise when necessary to reflect changing scour conditions. Scour appraisal procedures should be consistent with Hydraulic Engineering Circulars (HEC) 18 and 20. Guidance for scour evaluations is located in HEC 18 and 20, and guidance for scour assessment is located in HEC 20.
(2) For bridges which are determined to be scour critical or have unknown foundations, prepare and document a scour POA for deployment of scour countermeasures for known and potential deficiencies, and to address safety concerns. The plan must address a schedule for repairing or installing physical and/or hydraulic scour countermeasures, and/or the use of monitoring as a scour countermeasure. Scour plans of actions should be consistent with HEC 18 and 23.
(3) Execute action in accordance with the plan.
(p)
Quality control and quality assurance.
(1) Assure systematic QC and QA procedures identified in Section 1.4, AASHTO Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317) are used to maintain a high degree of accuracy and consistency in the inspection program.
(2) Document the extent, interval, and responsible party for the review of inspection teams in the field, inspection reports, NBI data, and computations, including scour appraisal and load ratings. QC and QA reviews are to be performed by personnel other than the individual who completed the original report or calculations.
(3) Perform QC and QA reviews and document the results of the QC and QA process, including the tracking and completion of actions identified in the procedures.
(4) Address the findings of the QC and QA reviews.
(q)
Critical findings.
(1) Document procedures to address critical findings in a timely manner. Procedures must:
(i) Define critical findings considering the location and the redundancy of the member affected and the extent and consequence of a deficiency. Deficiencies include, but are not limited to scour, damage, corrosion, section loss, settlement, cracking, deflection, distortion, delamination, loss of bearing, and any condition posing an imminent threat to public safety. At a minimum, include findings which warrant the following:
(A) Full or partial closure of any bridge;
(B) An NSTM to be rated in serious or worse condition, as defined in the NBI (
see
§ 650.315) by the NSTM Inspection item, coded three (3) or less;
(C) A deck, superstructure, substructure, or culvert component to be rated in critical or worse condition, as defined in the NBI (
see
§ 650.315) by the Deck, Superstructure, or Substructure Condition Rating items, or the Culvert Condition Rating item, coded two (2) or less;
(D) The channel condition or scour condition to be rated in critical or worse condition as defined in the NBI (
see
§ 650.315) by the Channel Condition Rating or Scour Condition Rating items, coded critical (2) or less; or
(E) Immediate load restriction or posting, or immediate repair work to a bridge, including shoring, in order to remain open.
(ii) Develop and document timeframes to address critical findings identified in paragraph (q)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) State transportation departments, Federal agencies, and Tribal governments must inform FHWA of all critical findings and actions taken, underway, or planned to resolve critical findings as follows:
(i) Notify FHWA within 24 hours of discovery of each critical finding on the National Highway System (NHS) as identified in paragraphs (q)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section;
(ii) Provide monthly, or as requested, a written status report for each critical finding as identified in paragraph (q)(1)(i) of this section until resolved. The report must contain:
(A) Owner;
(B) NBI Structure Number;
(C) Date of finding;
(D) Description and photos (if available) of critical finding;
(E) Description of completed, temporary and/or planned corrective actions to address critical finding;
(F) Status of corrective actions: Active/Completed;
(G) Estimated date of completion if corrective actions are active; and
(H) Date of completion if corrective actions are completed.
(r)
Review of compliance.
Provide information annually or as required in cooperation with any FHWA review of compliance with this subpart.
[87 FR 27429, May 6, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 57821, Sept. 22, 2022]
§ 650.315
Inventory.
(a) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government must prepare and maintain an inventory of all bridges subject to this subpart. Inventory data, as defined in § 650.305, must be collected, updated, and retained by the responsible State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government and submitted to FHWA on an annual basis or whenever requested. For temporary bridges open to traffic greater than 24 months, inventory data must be collected and submitted per this section. Inventory data must include element level bridge inspection data for bridges on the NHS collected in accordance with the “Manual for Bridge Element Inspection” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317). Specifications for collecting and reporting this data are contained in the “Specifications for the National Bridge Inventory” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.317).
(b) For all inspection types, enter changes to the inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month when the field portion of the inspection is completed.
(c) For modifications to existing bridges that alter previously recorded inventory data and for newly constructed bridges, enter the inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month of opening to traffic.
(d) For changes in load restriction or closure status, enter the revised inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month the change in load restriction or closure status of the bridge is implemented.
(e) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government must establish and document a process that ensures the time constraint requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section are fulfilled.
§ 650.317
Incorporation by reference .
Certain material is incorporated by reference (IBR) into this subpart with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact DOT at: U.S. Department of Transportation Library, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590 in Room W12-300, (800) 853-1351,
www.ntl.bts.gov/ntl.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The material may be obtained from the following sources:
(a) AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 555 12th Street NW, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20004; 1-800-231-3475;
https://store.transportation.org.
(1) MBE-3. “The Manual for Bridge Evaluation,” Third Edition, 2018; IBR approved for § 650.305 and 650.313.:
(2) MBE-3-I1-OL. The Manual for Bridge Evaluation, 2019 Interim Revisions [to 2018 Third Edition], copyright 2018; IBR approved for § 650.305 and 650.313.
(3) MBE-3-I2. The Manual for Bridge Evaluation, 2020 Interim Revisions [to 2018 Third Edition], copyright 2020; IBR approved for § 650.305 and 650.313.
(4) MBEI-2: Manual for Bridge Element Inspection, Second Edition, 2019, IBR approved for § 650.315.
(b) FHWA. Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590: 1-202-366-4000;
www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/nbi.cfm.
(1) FHWA-HIF-22-017: Specifications for the National Bridge Inventory, March, 2022, IBR approved for § 650.315.
(2) [Reserved].
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—National Tunnel Inspection Standards

# Source:
80 FR 41368, July 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.501
Purpose.
This subpart sets the national minimum standards for the proper safety inspection and evaluation of all highway tunnels in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 144(h) and the requirements for preparing and maintaining an inventory in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 144(b).
§ 650.503
Applicability.
The National Tunnel Inspection Standards (NTIS) in this subpart apply to all structures defined as highway tunnels on all public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, including tribally and federally owned tunnels.
§ 650.505
Definitions.
The following terms used in this subpart are defined as follows:
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Manual for Bridge Evaluation.
The term “AASHTO Manual for Bridge Evaluation” means the “Manual for Bridge Evaluation”, incorporated by reference in § 650.517.
At-grade roadway.
The term “at-grade roadway” means paved or unpaved travel ways within the tunnel that carry vehicular traffic and are not suspended or supported by a structural system.
Bridge inspection experience.
The term “bridge inspection experience” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.
Complex tunnel.
The term “complex tunnel” means a tunnel characterized by advanced or unique structural elements or functional systems.
Comprehensive tunnel inspection training.
The term “comprehensive tunnel inspection training” means the FHWA-approved training that covers all aspects of tunnel inspection and enables inspectors to relate conditions observed in a tunnel to established criteria.
Critical finding.
The term “critical finding” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.
Damage inspection.
The term “damage inspection” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.
End-of-course assessment.
The term “end-of-course assessment” means a comprehensive examination given to students after the completion of a training course.
Federal-aid highway.
The term “Federal-aid highway” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(5).
Functional systems.
The term “functional systems” means non-structural systems, such as electrical, mechanical, fire suppression, ventilation, lighting, communications, monitoring, drainage, traffic signals, emergency response (including egress, refuge room spacing, or carbon monoxide detection), or traffic safety components.
Hands-on inspection.
The term “hands-on inspection” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.
Highway.
The term “highway” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(11).
In-depth inspection.
The term “in-depth inspection” means a close-up inspection of one, several, or all tunnel structural elements or functional systems to identify any deficiencies not readily detectable using routine inspection procedures. In-depth inspections may occur more or less frequently than routine inspections, as outlined in the tunnel-specific inspection procedures.
Initial inspection.
The term “initial inspection” means the first inspection of a tunnel to provide all inventory, appraisal, and other data necessary to determine the baseline condition of the structural elements and functional systems.
Inspection Date.
The term “Inspection Date” means the date established by the Program Manager on which a regularly scheduled routine inspection begins for a tunnel.
Legal load.
The terms “legal load means the maximum legal load for each vehicle configuration permitted by law for the State in which the tunnel is located.
Load rating.
The term “load rating” means the determination of the safe vehicular live load carrying capacity within or above the tunnel using structural plans, and information gathered from an inspection. The results of the load rating may include the need for load posting.
Operating rating.
The term “operating rating” has the same meaning as in § 650.305.
Portal.
The term “portal” means the entrance and exit of the tunnel exposed to the environment; portals may include bare rock, constructed tunnel entrance structures, or buildings.
Procedures.
The term “procedures” means the written documentation of policies, methods, considerations, criteria, and other conditions that direct the actions of personnel so that a desired end result is achieved consistently.
Professional Engineer (P.E.).
The term “Professional Engineer (P.E.)” means an individual who has fulfilled education and experience requirements and passed examinations that, under State licensure laws, permits the individual to offer engineering services within areas of expertise directly to the public.
Program Manager.
The term “Program Manager” means the individual in charge of the inspection program who has been assigned or delegated the duties and responsibilities for tunnel inspection, reporting, and inventory. The Program Manager provides overall leadership and guidance to inspection Team Leaders and load raters.
Public road.
The term “public road” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(21).
Quality assurance (QA).
The term “quality assurance (QA)” means the use of sampling and other measures to ensure the adequacy of quality control procedures in order to verify or measure the quality of the entire tunnel inspection and load rating program.
Quality control (QC).
The term “quality control (QC)” means the procedures that are intended to maintain the quality of a tunnel inspection and load rating at or above a specified level.
Routine inspection.
The term “routine inspection” means a regularly scheduled comprehensive inspection encompassing all tunnel structural elements and functional systems and consisting of observations and measurements needed to determine the physical and functional condition of the tunnel, to identify any changes from initial or previously recorded conditions, and to ensure that tunnel components continue to satisfy present service requirements.
Routine permit load.
The term “routine permit load” means a vehicular load that has a gross weight, axle weight, or distance between axles not conforming with State laws for legally configured vehicles, and is authorized for unlimited trips over an extended period of time to move alongside other heavy vehicles on a regular basis.
Special inspection.
The term “special inspection” means an inspection, scheduled at the discretion of the tunnel owner, used to monitor a particular known or suspected deficiency.
State transportation department (State DOT).
The term “State transportation department (State DOT)” has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(28).
Team Leader.
The term “Team Leader” means the on-site individual in charge of an inspection team responsible for planning, preparing, performing, and reporting on tunnel inspections.
Tunnel.
The term “tunnel” means an enclosed roadway for motor vehicle traffic with vehicle access limited to portals, regardless of type of structure or method of construction, that requires, based on the owner's determination, special design considerations that may include lighting, ventilation, fire protection systems, and emergency egress capacity. The terms “tunnel” does not include bridges or culverts inspected under the National Bridge Inspection Standards (subpart C of this part).
Tunnel inspection experience.
The term “tunnel inspection experience” means active participation in the performance of tunnel inspections in accordance with the National Tunnel Inspection Standards, in either a field inspection, supervisory, or management role.
Tunnel inspection refresher training.
The term “tunnel inspection refresher training” means an FHWA-approved training course that aims to improve
the quality of tunnel inspections, introduce new techniques, and maintain the consistency of the tunnel inspection program.
Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual.
The term “Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual” means the “Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517).
Tunnel-specific inspection procedures.
The term “tunnel-specific inspection procedures” means the written documentation of the directions necessary to plan for, and conduct an inspection. Directions include coverage of inspection methods, frequency of each method, inspection equipment, access equipment, identification of tunnel elements, components and functional systems, traffic coordination, and specialized qualifications for inspecting personnel.
§ 650.507
Tunnel inspection organization responsibilities.
(a) Each State DOT shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all highway tunnels located on public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, that are fully or partially located within the State's boundaries, except for tunnels that are owned by Federal agencies or tribal governments.
(b) Each Federal agency shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all highway tunnels located on public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, that are fully or partially located within the respective agency's responsibility or jurisdiction.
(c) Each tribal government shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all highway tunnels located on public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, that are fully or partially located within the respective tribal government's responsibility or jurisdiction.
(d) Where a tunnel is jointly owned, all bordering States, Federal agencies, and tribal governments with ownership interests should determine through a joint formal written agreement the inspection responsibilities of each State, Federal agency, and tribal government.
(e) Each State that contains one or more tunnels subject to these regulations, or Federal agency or tribal government with a tunnel under its jurisdiction, shall include a tunnel inspection organization that is responsible for all of the following:
(1) Statewide, Federal agency-wide, or tribal government-wide tunnel inspection policies and procedures (both general and tunnel-specific), quality control and quality assurance procedures, and preparation and maintenance of a tunnel inventory.
(2) Tunnel inspections, written reports, load ratings, management of critical findings, and other requirements of these standards.
(3) Maintaining a registry of nationally certified tunnel inspectors that work in their State or for their Federal agency or tribal government that includes, at a minimum, a method to positively identify each inspector, documentation that the inspector's training requirements are up-to-date, the inspector's current contact information, and detailed information about any adverse action that may affect the good standing of the inspector.
(4) A process, developed under the direction of a Professional Engineer and approved by FHWA, to determine when an inspection Team Leader's qualifications must meet § 650.509(b)(4) in order to adequately and appropriately lead an inspection of a complex tunnel or a tunnel with distinctive features or functions. At a minimum, the process shall consider a tunnel's type of construction, functional systems, history of performance, and physical and operational conditions.
(f) A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government may delegate functions identified in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section through a formal written agreement, but such delegation does not relieve the State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government of any of its responsibilities under this subpart.
(g) The State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government tunnel inspection organization shall have a Program Manager with the qualifications listed in § 650.509(a), who has been delegated responsibility for paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
§ 650.509
Qualifications of personnel.
(a) A Program Manager shall, at a minimum:
(1) Be a registered Professional Engineer, or have 10 years of tunnel or bridge inspection experience;
(2) Be a nationally certified tunnel inspector;
(3) Satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section by August 13, 2017; and
(4) Be able to determine when a Team Leader's qualifications must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section in accordance with the FHWA approved process developed in accordance with § 650.507(e)(4).
(b) A Team Leader shall, at a minimum:
(1) Meet at least one of the four qualifications listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:
(i) Be a registered professional engineer and have six months of tunnel or bridge inspection experience.
(ii) Have 5 years of tunnel or bridge inspection experience.
(iii) Have all of the following:
(A) A bachelor's degree in engineering or engineering technology from a college or university accredited or determined as substantially equivalent by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology.
(B) Successfully passed the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying Fundamentals of Engineering examination.
(C) Two (2) years of tunnel or bridge inspection experience.
(iv) Have all of the following:
(A) An associate's degree in engineering or engineering technology from a college or university accredited or determined as substantially equivalent by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology.
(B) Four years of tunnel or bridge inspection experience.
(2) Be a nationally certified tunnel inspector.
(3) Provide documentation supporting the satisfaction of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section to the Program Manager of each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government for which they are performing tunnel inspections.
(4) Be a registered Professional Engineer and have six months of tunnel or bridge inspection experience if the Program Manager determines through the approved process developed under § 650.507(e)(4) that the tunnel being inspected is complex or has distinctive features or functions that warrant this level of qualifications.
(c) Load ratings shall be performed by, or under the direct supervision of, a registered Professional Engineer.
(d) Each State DOT, Federal agency, and tribal government shall determine inspection personnel qualifications for damage, cursory, and special inspections.
(e) A nationally certified tunnel inspector shall:
(1) Complete an FHWA-approved comprehensive tunnel inspection training course and score 70 percent or greater on an end-of-course assessment;
(2) Complete a cumulative total of 18 hours of FHWA-approved tunnel inspection refresher training over each 60 month period; and
(3) Maintain documentation supporting the satisfaction of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, and, upon request, provide documentation of their training status and current contact information to the Tunnel Inspection Organization of each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government for which they will be performing tunnel inspections.
(f) Acceptable tunnel inspection training includes the following:
(1)
National Highway Institute training.
NHI courses on comprehensive tunnel inspection training.
(2)
FHWA approval of alternate training.
A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government may submit to FHWA a training course as an alternative to the NHI course. The FHWA shall approve alternative course materials and end-of-course assessments for national consistency and certification purposes. The Program Manager shall review the approved alternative training course every 5 years to ensure the material is current. Updates to approved course materials and end-of-course assessments shall be resubmitted to FHWA for approval.
(g) In evaluating the tunnel inspection experience requirements under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a combination of tunnel design, tunnel maintenance, tunnel construction, and tunnel inspection experience, with the predominant amount in tunnel inspection, is acceptable. Also, the following criteria should be considered:
(1) The relevance of the individual's actual experience, including the extent to which the experience has enabled the individual to develop the skills needed to properly lead a tunnel safety inspection.
(2) The individual's exposure to the problems or deficiencies common in the types of tunnels being inspected by the individual.
(3) The individual's understanding of the specific data collection needs and requirements.
§ 650.511
Inspection interval.
(a)
Initial inspection.
A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government tunnel inspection organization shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, an initial inspection for each tunnel described in § 650.503 as follows:
(1) For existing tunnels, conduct a routine inspection of each tunnel according to the inspection guidance provided in the Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517) by August 13, 2017.
(2) For tunnels completed after these regulations take effect, the initial routine inspection shall be conducted after all construction is completed and prior to opening to traffic, according to the inspection guidance provided in the Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517).
(b)
Routine inspections.
A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government tunnel inspection organization shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, routine inspections for each tunnel described in § 650.503 as follows:
(1) Establish for each tunnel the NTIS routine Inspection Date in a month and year (MM/DD/YYYY) format. This date should only be modified by the Program Manager in rare circumstances.
(2) Inspect each tunnel at regular 24-month intervals.
(3) For tunnels needing inspection more frequently than 24-month intervals, establish criteria to determine the level and frequency to which these tunnels are inspected, based on a risk analysis approach that considers such factors as tunnel age, traffic characteristics, geotechnical conditions, and known deficiencies.
(4) Certain tunnels may be inspected at regular intervals up to 48 months. Inspecting a tunnel at an increased interval may be appropriate when past inspection findings and analysis justifies the increased inspection interval. At a minimum, the following criteria shall be used to determine the level and frequency of inspection based on an assessed lower risk: Tunnel age, time from last major rehabilitation, tunnel complexity, traffic characteristics, geotechnical conditions, functional systems, and known deficiencies. A written request that justifies a regular routine inspection interval between 24 and 48 months shall be submitted to FHWA for review and comment prior to the extended interval being implemented.
(5) Inspect each tunnel in accordance with the established interval. The acceptable tolerance for inspection interval is within 2 months before or after the Inspection Date established in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in order to maintain that date. The actual month, day, and year of the inspection are to be reported in the National Tunnel Inventory.
(c)
Damage, in-depth, and special inspections.
The Program Manager shall establish criteria to determine the level and frequency of damage, in-depth, and special inspections. Damage, in-depth, and special inspections may use non-destructive testing or other methods not used during routine inspections at an interval established by the Program Manager. In-depth inspections should be scheduled for complex tunnels and for certain structural elements and functional systems when necessary to fully ascertain the condition of the element or system; hands-on inspection may be necessary at some locations.
§ 650.513
Inspection procedures.
Each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government tunnel inspection organization, to carry out its inspection responsibilities, shall perform or cause to be performed all of the following:
(a) Inspect tunnel structural elements and functional systems in accordance with the inspection guidance provided in the Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517).
(b) Provide at least one Team Leader, who meets the minimum qualifications stated in § 650.509, at the tunnel at all times during each initial, routine, and in-depth inspection. The State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government shall report the nationally certified tunnel inspector identification for each Team Leader that is wholly or partly responsible for a tunnel inspection must be reported to the National Tunnel Inventory.
(c) Prepare and document tunnel-specific inspection procedures for each tunnel inspected and inventoried that shall:
(1) Take into account the design assumptions and the tunnel complexity; and
(2) Identify the—
(i) Tunnel structural elements and functional systems to be inspected;
(ii) Methods of inspection to be used;
(iii) Frequency of inspection for each method; and
(iv) Inspection equipment, access equipment, and traffic coordination needed.
(d) Establish requirements for functional system testing, direct observation of critical system checks, and testing documentation.
(e) For complex tunnels, identify specialized inspection procedures and additional inspector training and experience required to inspect complex tunnels. Inspect complex tunnels according to the specialized inspection procedures.
(f) Conduct tunnel inspections with qualified staff not associated with the operation or maintenance of the tunnel structure or functional systems.
(g) Rate each tunnel's safe vehicular load-carrying capacity in accordance with the Sections 6 or 8, AASHTO Manual for Bridge Evaluation (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517). A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government shall conduct a load rating evaluation as soon as practical, but not later than three months after the completion of the inspection, if a change in condition is identified. Post or restrict the highways in or over the tunnel in accordance with Section 6, AASHTO Manual for Bridge Evaluation (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517), or in accordance with State law, when the maximum unrestricted legal loads or State routine permit loads exceed those allowed under the operating rating or equivalent rating factor. Postings shall be made as soon as possible but not later than 30 days after a valid load rating determines a need for such posting. At-grade roadways in tunnels are exempt from load rating. A State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government, shall maintain load rating calculations or input files with a summary of results as a part of the tunnel record.
(h) Prepare tunnel inspection documentation as described in the Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517), and maintain written reports or electronic files on the results of tunnel inspections, together with notations of any action taken to address the findings of such inspections. Maintain relevant maintenance and inspection data to allow assessment of current tunnel condition. At a minimum, information collected will include data regarding basic tunnel information (e.g., tunnel location, posted speed, inspection reports, repair recommendations, and repair and rehabilitation work completed), tunnel and roadway geometrics, interior tunnel structural features, portal structure features, and tunnel systems information. When available, tunnel data collected shall include diagrams, photos, condition of each structural and functional system component, notations of any action taken to address the findings of such
inspections, and the national tunnel inspector certification registry identification for each Team Leader responsible in whole or in part for the inspection.
(i) Use systematic quality control and quality assurance procedures to maintain a high degree of accuracy and consistency in the inspection program. Include periodic field review of inspection teams, data quality checks, and independent review of inspection reports and computations.
(j) Establish a Statewide, Federal agency-wide, or tribal government-wide procedure to ensure that critical findings are addressed in a timely manner. Notify FHWA within 24 hours of any critical finding and the activities taken, underway, or planned to resolve or monitor the critical finding. Update FHWA regularly or as requested on the status of each critical finding until it is resolved. Annually provide a written report to FHWA with a summary of the current status of the resolutions for each critical finding identified within that year or unresolved from a previous year.
(k) Provide information at least annually, or more frequently upon request, in cooperation with any FHWA review of State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government compliance with the NTIS. The FHWA will assess annually State DOT compliance using statistical assessments and well-defined measures based on the requirements of this subpart.
§ 650.515
Inventory.
(a)
Preliminary inventory.
Each State, Federal agency, or tribal government shall collect and submit the inventory data items described in the Specifications for the National Tunnel Inventory (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 650.517) for all tunnels subject to the NTIS by December 11, 2015.
(b)
National Tunnel Inventory.
Each State, Federal agency, or tribal government shall prepare, maintain, and make available to FHWA upon request, an inventory of all highway tunnels subject to the NTIS that includes the preliminary inventory information submitted in paragraph (a) of this section, reflects the findings of the most recent tunnel inspection conducted, and is consistent and coordinated with the Specifications for the National Tunnel Inventory.
(c)
Data entry for inspections.
For all inspections, each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government shall enter the appropriate tunnel inspection data into its inventory within 3 months after the completion of the inspection.
(d)
Data entry for tunnel modifications and new tunnels.
For modifications to existing tunnels that alter previously recorded data and new tunnels, each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government shall enter the appropriate data into its inventory within 3 months after the completion of the work.
(e)
Data entry for tunnel load restriction and closure changes.
For changes in traffic load restriction or closure status, each State DOT, Federal agency, or tribal government shall enter the data into its inventory within 3 months after the change in status of the tunnel.
§ 650.517
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the FHWA must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. For questions regarding the availability of this material at FHWA, call the FHWA Regulations Officer, Office of the Chief Counsel, HCC-10, 202-366-0761. This material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html
.
(b) American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Suite 249, 444 N. Capitol Street NW., Washington, DC 20001, 800-231-3475,
https://bookstore.transportation.org
.
(1) “The Manual of Bridge Evaluation,” Section 6 “Load Rating” and Section 8 “Nondestructive Load Testing,” Second Edition, 2011, copyright 2011, incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505 and 650.513(a).
(2) 2011 Interim Revisions to “The Manual of Bridge Evaluation,” Section 6 “Load Rating,” Second Edition, 2010, copyright 2011, incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505 and 650.513(a).
(3) 2013 Interim Revisions to “The Manual of Bridge Evaluation,” Section 6 “Load Rating,” Second Edition, 2010, copyright 2013, incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505 and 650.513(a).
(4) 2014 Interim Revisions to “The Manual of Bridge Evaluation,” Section 6 “Load Rating,” Second Edition, 2010, copyright 2013, incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505 and 650.513(a).
(5) 2015 Interim Revisions to “The Manual of Bridge Evaluation,” Section 6 “Load Rating,” Second Edition, 2010, copyright 2014, incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505 and 650.513(a).
(c) Office of Bridges and Structures, Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(1) FHWA-HIF-15-005, “Tunnel Operations, Maintenance, Inspection and Evaluation (TOMIE) Manual,” 2015 edition, available in electronic format at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/inspection/tunnel/
. Incorporation by reference approved for §§ 650.505, 650.511(a), and 650.513(a) and (h).
(2) FHWA-HIF-15-006, “Specifications for National Tunnel Inventory,” 2015 edition, available in electronic format at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/inspection/tunnel/
. Incorporation by reference approved for § 650.515(a) and (b).
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Navigational Clearances for Bridges

# Source:
52 FR 28139, July 28, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.801
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to establish policy and to set forth coordination procedures for Federal-aid highway bridges which require navigational clearances.
§ 650.803
Policy.
It is the policy of FHWA:
(a) To provide clearances which meet the reasonable needs of navigation and provide for cost-effective highway operations,
(b) To provide fixed bridges wherever practicable, and
(c) To consider appropriate pier protection and vehicular protective and warning systems on bridges subject to ship collisions.
§ 650.805
Bridges not requiring a USCG permit.
(a) The FHWA has the responsibility under 23 U.S.C. 144(h) to determine that a USCG permit is not required for bridge construction. This determination shall be made at an early stage of project development so that any necessary coordination can be accomplished during environmental processing.
(b) A USCG permit shall not be required if the FHWA determines that the proposed construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of the federally aided or assisted bridge is over waters (1) which are not used or are not susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce and (2) which are (i) not tidal, or (ii) if tidal, used only by recreational boating, fishing, and other small vessels less than 21 feet in length.
(c) The highway agency (HA) shall assess the need for a USCG permit or navigation lights or signals for proposed bridges. The HA shall consult the appropriate District Offices of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers if the susceptibility to improvement for navigation of the water of concern is unknown and shall consult the USCG if the types of vessels using the waterway are unknown.
(d) For bridge crossings of waterways with navigational traffic where the HA believes that a USCG permit may not
be required, the HA shall provide supporting information early in the environmental analysis stage of project development to enable the FHWA to make a determination that a USCG permit is not required and that proposed navigational clearances are reasonable.
(e) Since construction in waters exempt from a USCG permit may be subject to other USCG authorizations, such as approval of navigation lights and signals and timely notice to local mariners of waterway changes, the USCG should be notified whenever the proposed action may substantially affect local navigation.
§ 650.807
Bridges requiring a USCG permit.
(a) The USCG has the responsibility (1) to determine whether a USCG permit is required for the improvement or construction of a bridge over navigable waters except for the exemption exercised by FHWA in § 650.805 and (2) to approve the bridge location, alignment and appropriate navigational clearances in all bridge permit applications.
(b) A USCG permit shall be required when a bridge crosses waters which are: (1) tidal and used by recreational boating, fishing, and other small vessels 21 feet or greater in length or (2) used or susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce. If it is determined that a USCG permit is required, the project shall be processed in accordance with the following procedures.
(c) The HA shall initiate coordination with the USCG at an early stage of project development and provide opportunity for the USCG to be involved throughout the environmental review process in accordance with 23 CFR part 771. The FHWA and Coast Guard have developed internal guidelines which set forth coordination procedures that both agencies have found useful in streamlining and expediting the permit approval process. These guidelines include (1) USCG/FHWA Procedures for Handling Projects which Require a USCG Permit
1
and (2) the USCG/FHWA Memorandum of Understanding on Coordinating The Preparation and Processing of Environmental Projects.
2
1
This document is an internal directive in the USCG Bridge Administration Manual, Enclosure 1a, COMDT INST M16590.5, change 2 dated Dec. 1, 1983. It is available for inspection and copying from the U.S. Coast Guard or the Federal Highway Administration as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7, appendices B and D.
2
FHWA Notice 6640.22 dated July 17, 1981, is available for inspection and copying as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7, appendix D.
(d) The HA shall accomplish sufficient preliminary design and consultation during the environmental phase of project development to investigate bridge concepts, including the feasibility of any proposed movable bridges, the horizontal and vertical clearances that may be required, and other location considerations which may affect navigation. At least one fixed bridge alternative shall be included with any proposal for a movable bridge to provide a comparative analysis of engineering, social, economic and environmental benefit and impacts.
(e) The HA shall consider hydraulic, safety, environmental and navigational needs along with highway costs when designing a proposed navigable waterway crossing.
(f) For bridges where the risk of ship collision is significant, HA's shall consider, in addition to USCG requirements, the need for pier protection and warning systems as outlined in FHWA Technical Advisory 5140.19, Pier Protection and Warning Systems for Bridges Subject to Ship Collisions, dated February 11, 1983.
(g) Special navigational clearances shall normally not be provided for accommodation of floating construction equipment of any type that is not required for navigation channel maintenance. If the navigational clearances are influenced by the needs of such equipment, the USCG should be consulted to determine the appropriate clearances to be provided.
(h) For projects which require FHWA approval of plans, specifications and estimates, preliminary bridge plans shall be approved at the appropriate level by FHWA for structural concepts,
hydraulics, and navigational clearances prior to submission of the permit application.
(i) If the HA bid plans contain alternative designs for the same configuration (fixed or movable), the permit application shall be prepared in sufficient detail so that all alternatives can be evaluated by the USCG. If appropriate, the USCG will issue a permit for all alternatives. Within 30 days after award of the construction contract, the USCG shall be notified by the HA of the alternate which was selected. The USCG procedure for evaluating permit applications which contain alternates is presented in its Bridge Administration Manual (COMDT INST M16590.5).
3
The FHWA policy on alternates, Alternate Design for Bridges; Policy Statement, was published at 48 FR 21409 on May 12, 1983.
3
United States Coast Guard internal directives are available for inspection and copying as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7, appendix B.
§ 650.809
Movable span bridges.
A fixed bridge shall be selected wherever practicable. If there are social, economic, environmental or engineering reasons which favor the selection of a movable bridge, a cost benefit analysis to support the need for the movable bridge shall he prepared as a part of the preliminary plans.
PART 652 [RESERVED]
Pt. 655

# PART 655—TRAFFIC OPERATIONS
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Traffic Control Devices on Federal-Aid and Other Streets and Highways
Sec.
655.601
Purpose.
655.602
Definitions.
655.603
Standards.
655.604
Achieving basic uniformity.
655.605
Project procedures.
655.606
Higher cost materials.
655.607
Funding.
Appendix to Subpart F of Part 655—Alternate Method of Determining the Color of Retroreflective Sign Materials and Pavement Marking Materials
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 101(a), 104, 109(d), 114(a), 217, 315, and 402(a); 23 CFR 1.32; and, 49 CFR 1.85.
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Traffic Control Devices on Federal-Aid and Other Streets and Highways

# Source:
48 FR 46776, Oct. 14, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.601
Purpose.
To prescribe the policies and procedures of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to obtain basic uniformity of traffic control devices on all streets and highways in accordance with the following references that are approved by the FHWA for application on Federal-aid projects:
(a) MUTCD.
(b) AASHTO Guide to Metric Conversion.
(c) AASHTO Traffic Engineering Metric Conversion Factors.
(d) The material listed in this paragraph (a) of this section is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the FHWA must publish a document in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the FHWA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact Federal Highway Administration, Office of Transportation Operations, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366-8043;
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/contactus.htm.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The material may be obtained from the following source(s) in this paragraph (d).
(1) AASHTO, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, Suite 249, 444 North Capitol Street NW., Washington, DC 20001
(i) AASHTO Guide to Metric Conversion, 1993;
(ii) AASHTO, Traffic Engineering Metric Conversion Factors, 1993—Addendum to the Guide to Metric Conversion, October 1993.
(2) FHWA, Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590, telephone (202) 366-1993, also available at
http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov.
(i) Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), 11th Edition, FHWA, December 2023.
(ii) [Reserved]
[77 FR 28466, May 14, 2012, as amended at 87 FR 47931, Aug. 5, 2022; 88 FR 87695, Dec. 19, 2023]
§ 655.602
Definitions.
The terms used herein are defined in accordance with definitions and usages contained in the MUTCD and 23 U.S.C. 101(a).
§ 655.603
Standards.
(a)
National MUTCD.
The MUTCD approved by the Federal Highway Administrator is the national standard for all traffic control devices installed on any street, highway, or bicycle trail open to public travel in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 109(d) and 402(a). For the purpose of MUTCD applicability, open to public travel includes toll roads and roads within shopping centers, airports, sports arenas, and other similar business and/or recreation facilities that are privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel without access restrictions. Except for gated toll roads, roads within private gated properties where access is restricted at all times are not included in this definition. Parking areas, driving aisles within parking areas, and private highway-rail grade crossings are also not included in this definition.
(b)
State or other Federal MUTCD.
(1) Where State or other Federal agency MUTCDs or Supplements are required, they shall be in substantial conformance with the national MUTCD. Substantial conformance means that the State MUTCD or Supplement shall conform as a minimum to the Standard statements included in the national MUTCD. The FHWA Division Administrators and Associate Administrator for the Federal Lands Highway Program may grant exceptions in cases where a State MUTCD or Supplement cannot conform to Standard statements in the national MUTCD because of the requirements of a specific State law that was in effect prior to January 16, 2007, provided that the Division Administrator or Associate Administrator determines based on information available and documentation received from the State that the non-conformance does not create a safety concern. The Guidance statements contained in the national MUTCD shall also be in the State MUTCD or Supplement unless the reason for not including it is satisfactorily explained based on engineering judgment, specific conflicting State law, or a documented engineering study. A State MUTCD or Supplement shall not contain Standard, Guidance, or Option statements that contravene or negate Standard or Guidance statements in the national MUTCD. In addition to a State MUTCD or Supplement, supplemental documents that a State issues, including but not limited to policies, directives, standard drawings or details, and specifications, shall not contravene or negate Standard or Guidance statements in the national MUTCD. The FHWA Division Administrators shall approve the State MUTCDs and Supplements that are in substantial conformance as defined heretofore with the national MUTCD. The FHWA Associate Administrator of the Federal Lands Highway Program shall approve other Federal land management agencies' MUTCDs and Supplements that are in substantial conformance as defined heretofore with the national MUTCD. The FHWA Division Administrators and the FHWA Associate Administrators for the Federal Lands Highway Program have the flexibility to determine on a case-by-case basis the degree of variation allowed in a State MUTCD or Supplement to accommodate existing State laws as described heretofore, for the express purpose of amending such laws over time.
(2) States and other Federal agencies are encouraged to adopt the National MUTCD in its entirety as their official Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(3) States and other Federal agencies shall adopt changes issued by the FHWA to the National MUTCD within two years from the effective date of the final rule. For those States that automatically adopt the MUTCD immediately upon the effective date of the latest edition or revision of the MUTCD, the FHWA Division Administrators have the flexibility to allow these States to install certain devices from existing inventory or previously approved construction plans that comply with the previous MUTCD during the two-year adoption period.
(c)
Color specifications.
Color determinations and specifications of sign and pavement marking materials shall conform to requirements of the FHWA Color Tolerance Charts.
1
An alternate method of determining the color of retroreflective sign material is provided in the appendix.
1
Available for inspection from the Office of Traffic Operations, Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC.
(d)
Compliance
—(1)
Existing highways
. Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, and Federal agency shall have a program as required by 23 U.S.C. 402(a), which shall include provisions for the systematic upgrading of substandard traffic control devices and for the installation of needed devices to achieve conformity with the MUTCD. The FHWA may establish target dates of achieving compliance with changes to specific devices in the MUTCD.
(2)
New or reconstructed highways.
Federal-aid projects for the construction, reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, or rehabilitation of streets and highways shall not be opened to the public for unrestricted use until all appropriate traffic control devices, either temporary or permanent, are installed and functioning properly. Both temporary and permanent devices shall conform to the MUTCD.
(3)
Construction area activities.
All traffic control devices installed in construction areas using Federal-aid funds shall conform to the MUTCD. Traffic control plans for handling traffic and pedestrians in construction zones and for protection of workers shall conform to the requirements of 23 CFR part 630, subpart J, Traffic Safety in Highway and Street Work Zones.
[48 FR 46776, Oct. 14, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 16834, May 7, 1986; 68 FR 14139, Mar. 24, 2003; 71 FR 75115, Dec. 14, 2006; 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009; 74 FR 66861, Dec. 16, 2009; 88 FR 87695, Dec. 19, 2023]
§ 655.604
Achieving basic uniformity.
(a)
Programs.
Programs for the orderly and systematic upgrading of existing traffic control devices or the installation of needed traffic control devices on or off the Federal-aid system should be based on inventories made in accordance with the Highway Safety Program Guideline 21, “Roadway Safety.” These inventories provide the information necessary for programming traffic control device upgrading projects.
(b)
Inventory.
An inventory of all traffic control devices is recommended in the Highway Safety Program Guideline 21, “Roadway Safety.” Highway planning and research funds and highway related safety grant program funds may be used in statewide or systemwide studies or inventories. Also, metropolitan planning (PL) funds may be used in urbanized areas provided the activity is included in an approved unified work program.
[48 FR 46776, Oct. 14, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 75115, Dec. 14, 2006]
§ 655.605
Project procedures.
(a)
Federal-aid highways.
Federal-aid projects involving the installation of traffic control devices shall follow procedures as established in 23 CFR part 630, subpart A, Federal-Aid Programs Approval and Project Authorization. Simplified and timesaving procedures are to be used to the extent permitted by existing policy.
(b)
Off-system highways.
Certain federally funded programs are available for installation of traffic control devices on streets and highways that are not on the Federal-aid system. The procedures used in these programs may vary from project to project but, essentially, the guidelines set forth herein should be used.
§ 655.606
Higher cost materials.
The use of signing, pavement marking, and signal materials (or equipment) having distinctive performance characteristics, but costing more than other materials (or equipment) commonly used may be approved by the FHWA Division Administrator when the specific use proposed is considered to be in the public interest.
§ 655.607
Funding.
(a)
Federal-aid highways.
(1) Funds apportioned or allocated under 23 U.S.C. 104(b) are eligible to participate in projects to install traffic control devices in accordance with the MUTCD on newly constructed, reconstructed, resurfaced, restored, or rehabilitated highways, or on existing highways when this work is classified as construction in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 101(a). Federal-aid highway funds for eligible pavement markings and traffic control signalization may amount to 100 percent of the construction cost. Federal-aid highway funds apportioned or allocated under other sections of 23 U.S.C. are eligible for participation in improvements conforming to the MUTCD in accordance with the provisions of applicable program regulations and directives.
(2) Traffic control devices are eligible, in keeping with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that the work is classified as construction in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and the State or local agency has a policy acceptable to the FHWA Division Administrator for selecting traffic control devices material or equipment based on items such as cost, traffic volumes, safety, and expected service life. The State's policy should provide for cost-effective selection of materials which will provide for substantial service life taking into account expected and necessary routine maintenance. For these purposes, effectiveness would normally be measured in terms of durability, service life and/or performance of the material. Specific projects including material or equipment selection shall be developed in accordance with this policy. Proposed work may be approved on a project-by-project basis when the work is (i) clearly warranted, (ii) on a Federal-aid system, (iii) clearly identified by site, (iv) substantial in nature, and (v) of sufficient magnitude at any given location to warrant Federal-aid participation as a construction item.
(3) The method of accomplishing the work will be in accordance with 23 CFR part 635, subpart A, Contract Procedures.
(b)
Off-system highways.
Certain Federal-aid highway funds are eligible to participate in traffic control device improvement projects on off-system highways. In addition, Federal-aid highway funds apportioned or allocated in 23 U.S.C. are eligible for the installation of traffic control devices on any public road not on the Federal-aid system when the installation is directly related to a traffic improvement project on a Federal-aid system route.
Pt. 655, Subpt. F, App.

# Appendix to Subpart F of Part 655—Alternate Method of Determining the Color of Retroreflective Sign Materials and Pavement Marking Materials
1. Although the FHWA Color Tolerance Charts depreciate the use of spectrophotometers or accurate tristimulus colorimeters for measuring the daytime color of retroreflective materials, recent testing has determined that 0/45 or 45/0 spectroradiometers and tristimulus colorimeters have proved that the measurements can be considered reliable and may be used.
2. The daytime color of non-fluorescent retroreflective materials may be measured in accordance with ASTM Test Method E1349, “Standard Test Method for Reflectance Factor and Color by Spectrophotometry Using Bidirectional Geometry” or ASTM Test Method E 1347 (Replaces E97), “Standard Test Method for Color and Color-Difference Measurement by Tristimulus (Filter) Colorimetry.” The latter test method specified bidirectional geometry for the measurement of retroreflective materials. The geometric conditions to be used in both test methods are 0/45 or 45/0 circumferential illumination or viewing. Uniplanar geometry is not recommended for material types IV or higher (designated microprismatic). The CIE standard illuminant used in computing the colorimetric coordinates shall be D
65
and the 2 Degree Standard CIE observer shall be used.
3. For fluorescent retroreflective materials ASTM E991 may be used to determine the chromaticity provided that the D
65
illumination meets the requirements of E 991. This
practice, however, allows only the total luminous factor to be measured. The fluorescent luminous factor must be determined using bispectral fluorescent colorimetry. Commercial instruments are available which allow such determination. Some testing laboratories are also equipped to perform these measurements.
4. For nighttime measurements CIE Standard Illuminant A shall be used in computing the colorimetric coordinates and the 2 Degree Standard CIE Observer shall be used.
5. Average performance sheeting is identified as Types I and II sheeting and high performance sheeting is identified as Type III. Super-high intensity sheeting is identified as Types V, VI, and VII in ASTM D 4956.
6. The following ten tables depict the 1931 CIE Chromaticity Diagram x and y coordinates for the corner points defining the recommended color boxes in the diagram and the daytime luminance factors for those colors. Lines drawn between these corner points specify the limits of the chromaticity allowed in the 1931 Chromaticity Diagram. Color coordinates of samples that lie within these lines are acceptable. For blue and green colors the spectrum locus is the defining limit between the corner points located on the spectrum locus:
Table 1 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Color Specification Limits for Retroreflective Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
y
x
4
x
y
White
0.303
0.300
0.368
0.366
0.340
0.393
0.274
0.329
Red
0.648
0.351
0.735
0.265
0.629
0.281
0.565
0.346
Orange
0.558
0.352
0.636
0.364
0.570
0.429
0.506
0.404
Brown
0.430
0.340
0.430
0.390
0.518
0.434
0.570
0.382
Yellow
0.498
0.412
0.557
0.442
0.479
0.520
0.438
0.472
Green
0.026
0.399
0.166
0.364
0.286
0.446
0.207
0.771
Blue
0.078
0.171
0.150
0.220
0.210
0.160
0.137
0.038
Light Blue
0.180
0.260
0.240
0.300
0.270
0.260
0.230
0.200
Purple
0.302
0.064
0.310
0.210
0.380
0.255
0.468
0.140
Table 1a to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Luminance Factors (%) for Retroreflective Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Daytime Luminance Factor (Y %) by ASTM Type
Types I, II, III and VI
Minimum
Maximum
Types IV, VII, and VIII
Minimum
Maximum
Type V
Minimum
Maximum
White
27
40
15
Red
2.5
12
3.0
15
2.5
11
Orange
14
30
12
30
7.0
25
Brown
4.0
9.0
1.0
6.0
1.0
9.0
Yellow
15
45
24
45
12
30
Green
3.0
9.0
3.0
12
2.5
11
Blue
1.0
10
1.0
10
1.0
10
Light Blue
12
40
18
40
8.0
25
Purple
2.0
10
2.0
10
2.0
10
Table 2 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Nighttime Color Specification Limits for Retroreflective Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and Observation Angle of 0.33°, Entrance Angle of + 5° and CIE Standard Illuminant A.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
White
0.475
0.452
0.360
0.415
0.392
0.370
0.515
0.409
Red
0.650
0.348
0.620
0.348
0.712
0.2550
0.735
0.265
Orange
0.595
0.405
0.565
0.405
0.613
0.355
0.643
0.355
Brown
0.595
0.405
0.540
0.405
0.570
0.365
0.643
0.355
Yellow
0.513
0.487
0.500
0.4700
0.545
0.425
0.572
0.425
Green
0.007
0.570
0.200
0.500
0.322
0.590
0.193
0.782
Blue
0.033
0.370
0.180
0.370
0.230
0.240
0.091
0.133
Purple
0.355
0.088
0.385
0.288
0.500
0.350
0.635
0.221
Light Blue
Chromaticity coordinates are yet to be determined.
Note:
Materials used as High-Conspicuity, Retroreflective Traffic Signage Materials shall meet the requirements for Daytime Color Specification Limits, Daytime Luminance Factors and Nighttime Color Specification Limits for Fluorescent Retroreflective Material, as described in Tables 3, 3a, and 4, throughout the service life of the sign.
Table 3 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Color Specification Limits for Fluorescent Retroreflective Material with CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
Fluorescent Orange
0.583
0.416
0.535
0.400
0.595
0.351
0.645
0.355
Fluorescent Yellow
0.479
0.520
0.446
0.483
0.512
0.421
0.557
0.442
Fluorescent Yellow-Green
0.387
0.610
0.369
.546
.428
.496
0.460
0.540
Fluorescent Green
0.210
0.770
0.232
0.656
0.320
0.590
0.320
0.675
Fluorescent Pink
0.450
0.270
0.590
0.350
0.644
0.290
0.536
0.230
Fluorescent Red
0.666
0.334
0.613
0.333
0.671
0.275
9.735
0.265
Table 3a to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Luminance Factors (%) for Fluorescent Retroreflective Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Luminance Factor Limits (Y)
Min
Max
Y
F
*
Fluorescent Orange
25
None
15
Fluorescent Yellow
45
None
20
Fluorescent Yellow-Green
60
None
20
Fluorescent Green
20
30
12
Fluorescent Pink
25
None
15
Fluorescent Red
20
30
15
*Fluorescence luminance factors (YF) are typical values, and are provided for quality assurance purposes only. YF shall not be used as a measure of performance during service.
Table 4 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Nighttime Color Specification Limits for Fluorescent Retroreflective Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and Observation Angle of 0.33°, Entrance Angle of + 5° and CIE Standard Illuminant A.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
Fluorescent Orange
0.625
0.375
0.589
0.376
0.636
0.330
0.669
0.331
Fluorescent Yellow
0.554
0.445
0.526
0.437
0.569
0.394
0.610
0.390
Fluorescent Yellow-Green
0.480
0.520
0.473
0.490
0.523
0.440
0.550
0.449
Fluorescent Green
0.007
0.570
0.200
0.500
0.322
0.590
0.193
0.782
Fluorescent Red
0.680
0.320
0.645
0.320
0.712
0.253
0.735
0.265
Table 5 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Color Specification Limits for Retroreflective Pavement Marking Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
White
0.355
0.355
0.305
0.305
0.285
0.325
0.335
0.375
Yellow
0.560
0.440
0.490
0.510
0.420
0.440
0.460
0.400
Red
0.480
0.300
0.690
0.315
0.620
0.380
0.480
0.360
Blue
0.105
0.100
0.220
0.180
0.200
0.260
0.060
0.220
Purple
0.300
0.064
0.309
0.260
0.362
0.295
0.475
0.144
Table 5a to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Luminance Factors (%) for Retroreflective Pavement Marking Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer and 45/0 (0/45) Geometry and CIE Standard Illuminant D
65
.
Color
Luminance Factor (Y%)
Minimum
Maximum
White
35
Yellow
25
Red
6
15
Blue
5
14
Purple
5
15
Table 6 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Nightime Color Specification Limits for Retroreflective Pavement Marking Material With CIE 2° Standard Observer, Observation Angle of 1.05°, Entrance Angle of + 88.76° and CIE Standard Illuminant A.
Color
Chromaticity Coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
White
0.480
0.410
0.430
0.380
0.405
0.405
0.455
0.435
Yellow
0.575
0.425
0.508
0.415
0.473
0.453
0.510
0.490
Purple
0.338
0.080
0.425
0.365
0.470
0.385
0.635
0.221
Note:
Luminance factors for retroreflective pavement marking materials are for materials as they are intended to be used. For paint products, that means inclusion of glass beads and/or other retroreflective components.
Table 7 to Appendix to Part 655, Subpart F—Daytime Color Specification Limits for Non-Retroreflective Materials Used for Colored Pavements
Color
Chromaticity coordinates
1
x
y
2
x
y
3
x
y
4
x
y
Green
0.230
0.714
0.266
0.460
0.367
0.480
0.367
0.584
Red
0.420
0.330
0.450
0.380
0.560
0.370
0.540
0.320
[67 FR 49572, July 31, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 70163, Nov. 21, 2002; 68 FR 65582, 65583, Nov. 20, 2003; 74 FR 66862, 66863, Dec. 16, 2009; 88 FR 87695, Dec. 19, 2023]
Subpart G [Reserved]
Pt. 656

# PART 656—CARPOOL AND VANPOOL PROJECTS
Sec.
656.1
Purpose.
656.3
Policy.
656.5
Eligibility.
656.7
Determination of an exception.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 146 and 315; sec. 126 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act
of 1978, Pub. L. 95-599, 92 Stat. 2689; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
47 FR 43024, Sept. 30, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 656.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to prescribe policies and general procedures for administering a program of ridesharing projects using Federal-aid primary, secondary, and urban system funds.
§ 656.3
Policy.
Section 126(d) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978 declares that special effort should be made to promote commuter modes of transportation which conserve energy, reduce pollution, and reduce traffic congestion.
§ 656.5
Eligibility.
(a) Projects which promote ridesharing programs need not be located on but must serve a Federal-aid system to be eligible for Federal-aid primary, secondary, or urban system funds depending on the system served. The Federal share payable will be in accordance with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 120. Except for paragraph (c)(3) of this section, for all purposes of this regulation the term
carpool
includes
vanpool.
(b) Projects shall not be approved under this regulation if they will have an adverse effect on any mass transportation system.
(c) The following types of projects and work are considered eligible under this program:
(1) Systems, whether manual or computerized, for locating potential participants in carpools and informing them of the opportunities for participation. Eligible costs for such systems may include costs of use or rental of computer hardware, costs of software, and installation costs (including both labor and other related items).
(2) Specialized procedures to provide carpooling opportunities to elderly or handicapped persons.
(3) The costs of acquiring vanpool vehicles and actual financial losses that occur when the operation of any vanpool is aborted before the scheduled termination date for the reason, concurred in by the State, that its continuation is no longer productive. The cost of acquiring a vanpool vehicle is eligible under the following conditions:
(i) The vanpool vehicle is a four-wheeled vehicle manufactured for use on public highways for transportation of 7-15 passengers (no passenger cars which do not meet the 7-15 criteria and no buses); and
(ii) Provision is made for repayment of the acquisition cost to the project within the passenger-service life of the vehicle. Repayment may be accomplished through the charging of a reasonable user fee based on an estimated number of riders per vehicle and the cost of reasonable vehicle depreciation, operation, and maintenance. Repayment is not required under the following conditions:
(A) When vehicles are purchased as demonstrator vans for use as a marketing device. Vehicles procured for this purpose should be used to promote the vanpool concept among employees, employers, and other groups by allowing potential riders and sponsors to examine commuter vans; or
(B) When vehicles are purchased for use on a trial commuting basis to enable people to experience vanpooling first hand. The trial period must be limited to a maximum of 2 months. That part of the user fee normally collected to cover the capital or ownership cost of the van would be eligible for reimbursement as a promotional cost during the limited trial period. As with established vanpool service, all vehicle operating costs must be borne by the user(s) during the trial period.
(4) Work necessary to designate existing highway lanes as preferential carpool lanes or bus and carpool lanes. Eligible work may include preliminary engineering to determine traffic flow and design criteria, signing, pavement markings, traffic control devices, and minor physical modifications to permit the use of designated lanes as preferential carpool lanes or bus and carpool lanes. Such improvements on any public road may be approved if such projects facilitate more efficient use of any Federal-aid highway. Eligible costs may also include costs of initial inspection or monitoring of use, including special equipment, to ensure that the high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes
designation is effective and that the project is fully developed and operating properly. While no fixed time limit is being arbitrarily prescribed for the inspection and monitoring period, it is intended that this activity be conducted as soon as possible to evaluate the effectiveness of the project and does not extend indefinitely nor become a part of routine facility operations.
(5) Signing of and modifications to existing facilities to provide preferential parking for carpools inside or outside the central business district. Eligible costs may include trail blazers, on-site signs designating highway interchange areas or other existing publicly or privately owned facilities as preferential parking for carpool participants, and initial or renewal costs for leasing parking space or acquisition or easements or restrictions, as, for example, at shopping centers and public or private parking facilities. The lease or acquisition cost may be computed on the demonstrated reduction in the overall number of vehicles using the designated portion of a commercial facility, but not on a reduction of the per-vehicle user charge for parking.
(6) Construction of carpool parking facilities outside the central business district. Eligible costs may include acquisition of land and normal construction activities, including installation of lighting and fencing, trail blazers, on-site signing, and passenger shelters. Such facilities need not be located in conjunction with any existing or planned mass transportation service, but should be designed so that the facility could accommodate mass transportation in the event such service may be developed. Except for the requirement of the availability of mass/public transportation facilities, fringe parking construction under this section shall be subject to the provisions of 23 CFR part 810.106.
(7) Reasonable public information and promotion expenses, including personnel costs, incurred in connection with any of the other eligible items mentioned herein.
§ 656.7
Determination of an exception.
(a) The FHWA has determined under provisions of 23 U.S.C. 146(b) that an exceptional situation exists in regard to the funding of carpools so as to allow the State to contribute as its share of the non-Federal match essential project-related work and services performed by local agencies and private organizations when approved and authorized in accordance with regular Federal-aid procedures. The cost of such work must be properly valued, supportable and verifiable in order for inclusion as an eligible project cost. Examples of such contributed work and services include: public service announcements, computer services, and project-related staff time for administration by employees of public and private organizations.
(b) This determination is based on: (1) The nature of carpool projects to provide a variety of services to the public; (2) the fact that carpool projects are labor intensive and require professional and specialized technical skills; (3) the extensive use of joint public and private endeavors; and (4) the fact that project costs involve the acquisition of capital equipment as opposed to construction of fixed items.
(c) This exception is limited to carpool projects and therefore is not applicable to other Federal-aid projects. The exception does not affect or replace the standard Federal-aid funding procedures or real property acquisition procedures and requirements, part 712, The Acquisition Function.
Pt. 657

# PART 657—CERTIFICATION OF SIZE AND WEIGHT ENFORCEMENT
Sec.
657.1
Purpose.
657.3
Definitions.
657.5
Policy.
657.7
Objective.
657.9
Formulation of a plan for enforcement.
657.11
Evaluation of operations.
657.13
Certification requirement.
657.15
Certification content.
657.17
Certification submittal.
657.19
Effect of failure to certify or to enforce State laws adequately.
657.21
Procedure for reduction of funds.
Appendix to Part 657—Guidelines To Be Used in Developing Enforcement Plans and Certification Evaluation

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 127, 141 and 315; 49 U.S.C. 31111, 31113 and 31114; sec. 1023, Pub. L.
102-240, 105 Stat. 1914; and 49 CFR 1.48(b)(19), (b)(23), (c)(1) and (c)(19).

# Source:
45 FR 52368, Aug. 7, 1980; 62 FR 62261, Nov. 21, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
The recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125-0034.
§ 657.1
Purpose.
To prescribe requirements for administering a program of vehicle size and weight enforcement on the Interstate System, and those routes which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid primary, Federal-aid secondary, or Federal-aid urban systems, including the required annual certification by the State.
[72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this part. As used in this part:
Enforcing
or
Enforcement
means all actions by the State to obtain compliance with size and weight requirements by all vehicles operating on the Interstate System and those roads which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid Primary, Federal-aid Secondary, or Federal-aid Urban Systems.
Urbanized area
means an area with a population of 50,000 or more.
[72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.5
Policy.
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) policy is that each State enforce vehicle size and weight laws to assure that violations are discouraged and that vehicles traversing the highway system do not exceed the limits specified by law. These size and weight limits are based upon design specifications and safety considerations, and enforcement shall be developed and maintained both to prevent premature deterioration of the highway pavement and structures and to provide a safe driving environment.
§ 657.7
Objective.
The objective of this regulation is the development and operation by each State of an enforcement process which identifies vehicles of excessive size and weight and provides a systematic approach to eliminate violations and thus improve conditions.
§ 657.9
Formulation of a plan for enforcement.
(a) Each State shall develop a plan for the maintenance of an effective enforcement process. The plan shall describe the procedures, resources, and facilities which the State intends to devote to the enforcement of its vehicle size and weight laws. Each State plan must be accepted by the FHWA and will then serve as a basis by which the annual certification of enforcement will be judged for adequacy.
(b) The plan shall discuss the following subjects:
(1)
Facilities and resources.
(i) No program shall be approved which does not utilize a combination of at least two of the following listed devices to deter evasion of size and weight measurement in sufficient quantity to cover the FA system: fixed platform scales; portable wheel weigher scales; semiportable or ramp scales; WIM equipment.
(ii) Staff assigned to the program, identified by specific agency. Where more than one State agency has weight enforcement responsibility, the lead agency should be indicated.
(2)
Practices and procedures.
(i) Proposed plan of operation, including geographical coverage and hours of operation in general terms.
(ii) Policy and practices with respect to overweight violators, including off-loading requirements for divisible loads. In those States in which off-loading is mandatory by law, an administrative variance from the legal requirement shall be fully explained. In those States in which off-loading is permissive administrative guidelines shall be included.
(iii) Policy and practices with respect to penalties, including those for repeated violations. Administrative directives, booklets or other written criteria shall be made part of the plan submission.
(iv) Policy and practices with respect to special permits for overweight. Administrative directives, booklets or
other written criteria shall be made part of the plan submission.
(3)
Updating.
Modification and/or additions to the plan based on experience and new developments in the enforcement program. It is recognized that the plan is not static and that changes may be required to meet changing needs.
§ 657.11
Evaluation of operations.
(a) The State shall submit its enforcement plan or annual update to the FHWA Division Office by July 1 of each year. However, if a State's legislative or budgetary cycle is not consonant with that date, the FHWA and the State may jointly select an alternate date. In any event, a State must have an approved plan in effect by October 1 of each year. Failure of a State to submit or update a plan will result in the State being unable to certify in accordance with § 657.13 for the period to be covered by the plan.
(b) The FHWA shall review the State's operation under the accepted plan on a continuing basis and shall prepare an evaluation report annually. The State will be advised of the results of the evaluation and of any needed changes in the plan itself or in its implementation. Copies of the evaluation reports and subsequent modifications resulting from the evaluation shall be forwarded to the FHWA's Office of Operations.
[59 FR 30418, June 13, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.13
Certification requirement.
Each State shall certify to the Federal Highway Administrator, before January 1 of each year, that it is enforcing all State laws respecting maximum vehicle size and weight permitted on what, prior to October 1, 1991, were the Federal-aid Primary, Secondary, and Urban Systems, including the Interstate System, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 127. The States must also certify that they are enforcing and complying with the ISTEA freeze on the use of LCV's and other multi-unit vehicles. The certification shall be supported by information on activities and results achieved during the preceding 12-month period ending on September 30 of each year.
[59 FR 30418, June 13, 1994]
§ 657.15
Certification content.
The certification shall consist of the following elements and each element shall be addressed even though the response is negative:
(a) A statement by the Governor of the State, or an official designated by the Governor, that the State's vehicle weight laws and regulations governing use of the Interstate System conform to 23 U.S.C. 127.
(b) A statement by the Governor of the State, or an official designated by the Governor, that all State size and weight limits are being enforced on the Interstate System and those routes which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid Primary, Urban, and Secondary Systems, and that the State is enforcing and complying with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112. Urbanized areas not subject to State jurisdiction shall be identified. The statement shall include an analysis of enforcement efforts in such areas.
(c) Except for Alaska and Puerto Rico, the certifying statements required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be worded as follows (the statements for Alaska and Puerto Rico do not have to reference 23 U.S.C. 127(d) in (c)(2), or include paragraph (c)(3) of this section):
I, (
name of certifying official
), (
position title
), of the State of ______________ do hereby certify:
(1) That all State laws and regulations governing vehicle size and weight are being enforced on those highways which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid Primary, Federal-aid Secondary, or Federal-aid Urban Systems;
(2) That the State is enforcing the freeze provisions of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112); and
(3) That all State laws governing vehicle weight on the Interstate System are consistent with 23 U.S.C. 127 (a) and (b).
(d) If this statement is made by an official other than the Governor, a copy of the document designating the official, signed by the Governor, shall also be included in the certification made under this part.
(e) A copy of any State law or regulation pertaining to vehicle sizes and weights adopted since the State's last certification and an analysis of the changes made.
(f) A report of State size and weight enforcement efforts during the period covered by the certification which addresses the following:
(1) Actual operations as compared with those forecast by the plan submitted earlier, with particular attention to changes in or deviations from the operations proposed.
(2) Impacts of the process as actually applied, in terms of changes in the number of oversize and/or overweight vehicles.
(3)
Measures of activity
—(i)
Vehicles weighed.
Separate totals shall be reported for the annual number of vehicles weighed on fixed scales, on semiportable scales, on portable scales, and on WIM when used for enforcement.
(ii)
Penalties.
Penalties reported shall include the number of citations or civil assessments issued for violations of each of the following: Axle, gross and bridge formula weight limits. The number of vehicles whose loads are either shifted or offloaded must also be reported.
(iii)
Permits.
The number of permits issued for overweight loads shall be reported. The reported numbers shall specify permits for divisible and nondivisible loads and whether issued on a trip or annual basis.
[59 FR 30418, June 13, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.17
Certification submittal.
(a) The Governor, or an official designated by the Governor, shall submit the certification to the FHWA division office prior to January 1 of each year.
(b) The FHWA division office shall forward the original certification to the FHWA's Office of Operations and one copy to the Office of Chief Counsel. Copies of appropriate evaluations and/or comments shall accompany any transmittal.
[72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.19
Effect of failure to certify or to enforce State laws adequately.
If a State fails to certify as required by this regulation or if the Secretary determines that a State is not adequately enforcing all State laws respecting maximum vehicle sizes and weights on the Interstate System and those routes which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid primary, Federal-aid secondary or Federal-aid urban systems, notwithstanding the State's certification, the Federal-aid funds for the National Highway System apportioned to the State for the next fiscal year shall be reduced by an amount equal to 10 percent of the amount which would otherwise be apportioned to the State under 23 U.S.C. 104, and/or by the amount required pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 127.
[72 FR 7747, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 657.21
Procedure for reduction of funds.
(a) If it appears to the Federal Highway Administrator that a State has not submitted a certification conforming to the requirements of this regulation, or that the State is not adequately enforcing State laws respecting maximum vehicle size and weight, including laws applicable to vehicles using the Interstate System with weights or widths in excess of those provided under 23 U.S.C. 127, the Federal Highway Administrator shall make in writing a proposed determination of nonconformity, and shall notify the Governor of the State of the proposed determination by certified mail. The notice shall state the reasons for the proposed determination and inform the State that it may, within 30 days from the date of the notice, request a hearing to show cause why it should not be found in nonconformity. If the State informs the Administrator before the end of this 30-day period that it wishes to attempt to resolve the matter informally, the Administrator may
extend the time for requesting a hearing. In the event of a request for informal resolution, the State and the Administrator (or designee) shall promptly schedule a meeting to resolve the matter.
(b) In all instances where the State proceeds on the basis of informal resolution, a transcript of the conference will be made and furnished to the State by the FHWA.
(1) The State may offer any information which it considers helpful to a resolution of the matter, and the scope of review at the conference will include, but not be limited to, legislative actions, including those proposed to remedy deficiencies, budgetary considerations, judicial actions, and proposals for specific actions which will be implemented to bring the State into compliance.
(2) The information produced at the conference may constitute an explanation and offer of settlement and the Administrator will make a determination on the basis of the certification, record of the conference, and other information submitted by the State. The Administrator's final decision together with a copy of the transcript of the conference will be furnished to the State.
(3) If the Administrator does not accept an offer of settlement made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State retains the right to request a hearing on the record pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, except in the case of a violation of section 127.
(c) If the State does not request a hearing in a timely fashion as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Highway Administrator shall forward the proposed determination of nonconformity to the Secretary. Upon approval of the proposed determination by the Secretary, the fund reduction specified by § 657.19 shall be effected.
(d) If the State requests a hearing, the Secretary shall expeditiously convene a hearing on the record, which shall be conducted according to the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 555
et seq.
Based on the record of the proceeding, the Secretary shall determine whether the State is in nonconformity with this regulation. If the Secretary determines that the State is in nonconformity, the fund reduction specified by section 567.19 shall be effected.
(e) The Secretary may reserve 10 percent of a State's apportionment of funds under 23 U.S.C. 104 pending a final administrative determination under this regulation to prevent the apportionment to the State of funds which would be affected by a determination of nonconformity.
(f) Funds withheld pursuant to a final administrative determination under this regulation shall be reapportioned to all other eligible States one year from the date of this determination, unless before this time the Secretary determines, on the basis of information submitted by the State and the FHWA, that the State has come into conformity with this regulation. If the Secretary determines that the State has come into conformity, the withheld funds shall be released to the State.
(g) The reapportionment of funds under paragraph (e) of this section shall be stayed during the pendency of any judicial review of the Secretary's final administrative determination of nonconformity.
Pt. 657, App.

# Appendix to Part 657—Guidelines To Be Used in Developing Enforcement Plans and Certification Evaluation

# A. Facilities and Equipment
1. Permanent Scales
a. Number
b. Location (a map appropriately coded is suggested)
c. Public-private (if any)
2. Weigh-in-motion (WIM)
a. Number
b. Location (notation on above map is suggested)
3. Semi-portable scales
a. Type and number
b. If used in sets, the number comprising a set
4. Portable Scales
a. Type and number
b. If used in sets, the number comprising a set

# B. Resources
1. Agencies involved (
i.e.
, highway agency, State police, motor vehicle department, etc.)
2. Personnel—numbers from respective agencies assigned to weight enforcement
3. Funding
a. Facilities
b. Personnel

# C. Practices
1. Proposed schedule of operation of fixed scale locations in general terms
2. Proposed schedule of deployment of portable scale equipment in general terms
3. Proposed schedule of deployment of semi-portable equipment in general terms
4. Strategy for prevention of bypassing of fixed weighing facility location
5. Proposed action for implementation of off-loading, if applicable

# D. Goals
1. Short term—the year beginning
October 1 following submission of a vehicle size and weight enforcement plan
2. Medium term—2-4 years after submission of the enforcement plan
3. Long term—5 years beyond the submission of the enforcement plan
4. Provision for annual review and update of vehicle size and weight enforcement plan

# E. Evaluation
The evaluation of an existing plan, in comparison to goals for strengthening the enforcement program, is a difficult task, especially since there is very limited experience nationwide.
The FHWA plans to approach this objective through a continued cooperative effort with State and other enforcement agencies by gathering useful information and experience on elements of enforcement practices that produce positive results.
It is not considered practicable at this time to establish objective minimums, such as the number of vehicles to be weighed by each State, as a requirement for satisfactory compliance. However, the States will want to know as many specifics as possible about what measuring tools will be used to evaluate their annual certifications for adequacy.
The above discussion goes to the heart of the question concerning numerical criteria. The assumption that a certain number of weighings will provide a maximum or even satisfactory deterrent is not supportable. The enforcement of vehicle size and weight laws requires that vehicles be weighed but it does not logically follow that the more vehicles weighed, the more effective the enforcement program, especially if the vehicles are weighed at a limited number of fixed locations. A “numbers game” does not necessarily provide a deterrent to deliberate overloading. Consistent, vigorous enforcement activities, the certainty of apprehension and of penalty, the adequacy of the penalty, even the publicity given these factors, may be greater deterrents than the number of weighings alone.
In recognizing that all States are unique in character, there are some similarities between certain States and useful perspectives may be obtained by relating their program elements. Some comparative factors are:
1. Truck registration (excluding pickups and panels)
2. Population
3. Average Daily Traffic (ADT) for trucks on FA highways
4. To total mileage of Federal-aid highways
5. Geographic location of the State
6. Annual truck miles traveled in State
7. Number of truck terminals (over 6 doors)
8. Vehicle miles of intrastate truck traffic
Quantities relating to the above items can become factors that in the aggregate are descriptive of a State's characteristics and can identify States that are similar from a trucking operation viewpoint. This is especially applicable for States within the same area.
After States with similar truck traffic operations have been identified in a regional area, another important variable must be considered: the type of weighing equipment that has been or is proposed for predominant use in the States. When data become available on the number of trucks weighed by each type of scale (fixed, portable, semi-portable, etc.) some indicators will be developed to relate one State's effort to those of other States. The measures of activity that are a part of each certification submitted will provide a basis for the development of more precise numerical criteria by which an enforcement plan and its activities can be judged for adequacy.
Previous certifications have provided information from which the following gross scale capabilities have been derived.

# Potential Weighing Capacities
1. Permanent scales 60 veh/hr.
2. Weigh-in-motion scales 100 veh/hr.
3. Semi-portable scales 25 veh/hr.
4. Portable scales 3 veh/hr.
To meet the mandates of Federal and other laws regarding truck size and weight enforcement, the FHWA desires to become a resource for all States in achieving a successful exchange of useful information. Some States are more advanced in their enforcement activities. Some have special experience with portable, semi-portable, fixed, or weighing-in-motion devices. Others have operated permanent scales in combination with concentrated safety inspection programs. The FHWA is interested in information on individual State experiences in these specialized areas as part of initial plan submissions. If such information has recently been furnished to the Washington Headquarters, an appropriate cross reference should be included on the submission.
It is the policy of the FHWA to avoid red tape, and information volunteered by the States will be of assistance in meeting many
needs. The ultimate goal in developing information through the evaluation process is to assemble criteria for a model enforcement program.
Pt. 658

# PART 658—TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS—LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
Sec.
658.1
Purpose.
658.3
Policy statement.
658.5
Definitions.
658.7
Applicability.
658.9
National Network criteria.
658.11
Additions, deletions, exceptions, and restrictions.
658.13
Length.
658.15
Width.
658.16
Exclusions from length and width determinations.
658.17
Weight.
658.19
Reasonable access.
658.21
Identification of National Network.
658.23
LCV freeze; cargo-carrying unit freeze.
Appendix A to Part 658—National Network—Federally-Designated Routes
Appendix B to Part 658—Grandfathered Semitrailer Lengths
Appendix C to Part 658—Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
Appendix D to Part 658—Devices That Are Excluded From Measurement of the Length or Width of a Commercial Motor Vehicle

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 127 and 315; 49 U.S.C. 31111, 31112, and 31114; sec. 347, Pub. L. 108-7, 117 Stat. 419; sec. 756, Pub. L. 109-58, 119 Stat. 829; sec. 1309, Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1219; sec. 115, Pub. L. 109-115, 119 Stat. 2408; sec. 5516, Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, 1557; 49 CFR 1.81(a)(3).

# Source:
49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 658.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to identify a National Network of highways available to vehicles authorized by provisions of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (STAA) as amended, and to prescribe national policies that govern truck and bus size and weight.
[59 FR 30419, June 13, 1994]
§ 658.3
Policy statement.
The Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA) policy is to provide a safe and efficient National Network of highways that can safely and efficiently accommodate the large vehicles authorized by the STAA. This network includes the Interstate System plus other qualifying Federal-aid Primary System Highways.
§ 658.5
Definitions.
Automobile transporters.
Any vehicle combination designed and used specifically for the transport of assembled highway vehicles, including truck camper units.
Beverage semitrailer.
A van-type, drop-frame semitrailer designed and used specifically for the transport and delivery of bottled or canned beverages (
i.e.
, liquids for drinking, including water) which has side-only access for loading and unloading this commodity. Semitrailer has the same meaning as in 49 CFR 390.5.
Boat transporters.
Any vehicle combination designed and used specifically to transport assembled boats and boat hulls. Boats may be partially disassembled to facilitate transporting.
Bridge gross weight formula.
The standard specifying the relationship between axle (or groups of axles) spacing and the gross weight that (those) axle(s) may carry expressed by the formula:
EC14OC91.011
where W = overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L = distance in feet between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles, and N = number of axles in the group under consideration.
Cargo-carrying unit.
As used in this part, cargo-carrying unit means any portion of a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) combination (other than a truck tractor) used for the carrying of cargo, including a trailer, semitrailer, or the cargo-carrying section of a single-unit truck. The length of the cargo carrying units of a CMV with two or more such units is measured from the front of the
first unit to the rear of the last [including the hitch(es) between the units].
Commercial motor vehicle.
For purposes of this regulation, a motor vehicle designed or regularly used to carry freight, merchandise, or more than ten passengers, whether loaded or empty, including buses, but not including vehicles used for vanpools, or recreational vehicles operating under their own power.
Drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter combination.
The term drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter combination means a vehicle combination designed and specifically used to tow up to 3 trucks or truck tractors, each connected by a saddle to the frame or fifth wheel of the forward vehicle of the truck tractor in front of it. Such combinations may include up to one fullmount.
Dromedary unit.
A box, deck, or plate mounted behind the cab and forward of the fifth wheel on the frame of the power unit of a truck tractor-semitrailer combination.
Federal-aid Primary System.
The Federal-aid Highway System of rural arterials and their extensions into or through urban areas in existence on June 1, 1991, as described in 23 U.S.C. 103(b) in effect at that time.
Fullmount.
A fullmount is a smaller vehicle mounted completely on the frame of either the first or last vehicle in a saddlemount combination.
Interstate System.
The National System of Interstate and Defense Highways described in sections 103(e) and 139(a) of Title 23, U.S.C. For the purpose of this regulation this system includes toll roads designated as Interstate.
Length exclusive devices.
Devices excluded from the measurement of vehicle length. Such devices shall not be designed or used to carry cargo.
Longer combination vehicle (LCV).
As used in this part, longer combination vehicle means any combination of a truck tractor and two or more trailers or semitrailers which operates on the Interstate System at a gross vehicle weight greater than 80,000 pounds.
Maxi-cube vehicle.
A maxi-cube vehicle is a combination vehicle consisting of a power unit and a trailing unit, both of which are designed to carry cargo. The power unit is a nonarticulated truck with one or more drive axles that carries either a detachable or a permanently attached cargo box. The trailing unit is a trailer or semitrailer with a cargo box so designed that the power unit may be loaded and unloaded through the trailing unit. Neither cargo box shall exceed 34 feet in length, excluding drawbar or hitching device; the distance from the front of the first to the rear of the second cargo box shall not exceed 60 feet, including the space between the cargo boxes; and the overall length of the combination vehicle shall not exceed 65 feet, including the space between the cargo boxes.
Motor carrier of passengers.
As used in this part, a motor carrier of passengers is a common, contract, or private carrier using a bus to provide commercial transportation of passengers. Bus has the same meaning as in 49 CFR 390.5.
National Network (NN).
The composite of the individual network of highways from each State on which vehicles authorized by the provisions of the STAA are allowed to operate. The network in each State includes the Interstate System, exclusive of those portions excepted under § 658.11(f) or deleted under § 658.11(d), and those portions of the Federal-aid Primary System in existence on June 1, 1991, set out by the FHWA in appendix A to this part.
Nondivisible load or vehicle.
(1) As used in this part,
nondivisible
means any load or vehicle exceeding applicable length or weight limits which, if separated into smaller loads or vehicles, would:
(i) Compromise the intended use of the vehicle,
i.e.
, make it unable to perform the function for which it was intended;
(ii) Destroy the value of the load or vehicle,
i.e.
, make it unusable for its intended purpose; or
(iii) Require more than 8 workhours to dismantle using appropriate equipment. The applicant for a nondivisible load permit has the burden of proof as to the number of workhours required to dismantle the load.
(2) A State may treat as nondivisible loads or vehicles: emergency response vehicles, including those loaded with
salt, sand, chemicals or a combination thereof, with or without a plow or blade attached in front, and being used for the purpose of spreading the material on highways that are or may become slick or icy; casks designed for the transport of spent nuclear materials; and military vehicles transporting marked military equipment or materiel.
Over-the-road bus.
The term over-the-road bus means a bus characterized by an elevated passenger deck located over a baggage compartment, and typically operating on the Interstate System or roads previously designated as making up the Federal-aid Primary System.
Saddlemount combination.
A saddlemount combination is a combination of vehicles in which a truck or truck tractor tows one or more trucks or truck tractors, each connected by a saddle to the frame or fifth wheel of the vehicle in front of it. The saddle is a mechanism that connects the front axle of the towed vehicle to the frame or fifth wheel of the vehicle in front and functions like a fifth wheel kingpin connection. When two vehicles are towed in this manner the combination is called a double saddlemount combination. When three vehicles are towed in this manner, the combination is called a triple saddlemount combination.
Single axle weight.
The total weight transmitted to the road by all wheels whose centers may be included between two parallel transverse vertical planes 40 inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle. The Federal single axle weight limit on the Interstate System is 20,000 pounds.
Special mobile equipment.
Every self-propelled vehicle not designed or used primarily for the transportation of persons or property and incidentally operated or moved over the highways, including military equipment, farm equipment, implements of husbandry, road construction or maintenance machinery, and emergency apparatus which includes fire and police emergency equipment. This list is partial and not exclusive of such other vehicles as may fall within the general terms of this definition.
Stinger-steered combination.
A truck tractor semitrailer wherein the fifth wheel is located on a drop frame located behind and below the rear-most axle of the power unit.
Tandem axle weight.
The total weight transmitted to the road by two or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches and not more than 96 inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle. The Federal tandem axle weight limit on the Interstate System is 34,000 pounds.
Terminal.
The term
terminal
as used in this regulation means, at a minimum, any location where:
Freight either originates, terminates, or is handled in the transportation process; or
Commercial motor carriers maintain operating facilities.
Tractor or Truck tractor.
The noncargo carrying power unit that operates in combination with a semitrailer or trailer, except that a truck tractor and semitrailer engaged in the transportation of automobiles may transport motor vehicles on part of the power unit, and a truck tractor equipped with a dromedary unit operating in combination with a semitrailer transporting Class 1 explosives and/or any munitions related security material as specified by the U.S. Department of Defense in compliance with 49 CFR 177.835 may use the dromedary unit to carry a portion of the cargo.
Truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer.
In a truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination vehicle, the two trailing units are connected with a “B-train” assembly. The B-train assembly is a rigid frame extension attached to the rear frame of a first semitrailer which allows for a fifth wheel connection point for the second semitrailer. This combination has one less articulation point than the conventional “A dolly” connected truck-tractor semitrailer-trailer combination.
Truck-trailer boat transporter.
A boat transporter combination consisting of a straight truck towing a trailer using typically a ball and socket connection. The trailer axle(s) is located substantially at the trailer center of gravity (rather than the rear of the trailer) but
so as to maintain a downward force on the trailer tongue.
Width exclusive devices.
Devices excluded from the measurement of vehicle width. Such devices shall not be designed or used to carry cargo.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 658.5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 658.7
Applicability.
Except as limited in § 658.17(a) the provisions of this part are applicable to the National Network and reasonable access thereto. However, nothing in this regulation shall be construed to prevent any State from applying any weight and size limits to other highways, except when such limits would deny reasonable access to the National Network.
§ 658.9
National Network criteria.
(a) The National Network listed in the appendix to this part is available for use by commercial motor vehicles of the dimensions and configurations described in §§ 658.13 and 658.15.
(b) For those States with detailed lists of individual routes in the appendix, the routes have been designated on the basis of their general adherence to the following criteria.
(1) The route is a geometrically typical component of the Federal-Aid Primary System, serving to link principal cities and densely developed portions of the States.
(2) The route is a high volume route utilized extensively by large vehicles for interstate commerce.
(3) The route does not have any restrictions precluding use by conventional combination vehicles.
(4) The route has adequate geometrics to support safe operations, considering sight distance, severity and length of grades, pavement width, horizontal curvature, shoulder width, bridge clearances and load limits, traffic volumes and vehicle mix, and intersection geometry.
(5) The route consists of lanes designed to be a width of 12 feet or more or is otherwise consistent with highway safety.
(6) The route does not have any unusual characteristics causing current or anticipated safety problems.
(c) For those States where State law provides that STAA authorized vehicles may use all or most of the Federal-Aid Primary system, the National Network is no more restrictive than such law. The appendix contains a narrative summary of the National Network in those States.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 12148, Apr. 13, 1988]
§ 658.11
Additions, deletions, exceptions, and restrictions.
To ensure that the National Network remains substantially intact, FHWA retains the authority to rule upon all requested additions to and deletions from the National Network as well as requests for the imposition of certain restrictions. FHWA approval or disapproval will constitute the final decision of the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(a)
Additions.
(1) Requests for additions to the National Network, including justification, shall have the endorsement of the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative, and be submitted in writing to the appropriate FHWA Division Office. Proposals for addition of routes to the National Network shall be accompanied by an analysis of suitability based on the criteria in § 658.9.
(2) Proposals for additions that meet the criteria of § 658.9 and have the endorsement of the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative will be published in the
Federal Register
for public comment as a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), and if found acceptable, as a final rule.
(b)
Deletions—Federal-aid primary—other than interstate.
Changed conditions or additional information may require the deletion of a designated route or a portion thereof. The deletion of any route or route segment shall require FHWA approval. Requests for deletion of routes from the National Network, including the reason(s) for the deletion, shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate FHWA Division Office. These requests shall be assessed on the basis of the criteria of § 658.9.
FHWA proposed deletions will be published in the
Federal Register
as a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM).
(c)
Requests for deletion—Federal-aid primary—other than interstate.
Requests for deletion should include the following information, where appropriate:
(1) Did the route segment prior to designation carry combination vehicles or 102-inch buses?
(2) Were truck restrictions in effect on the segment on January 6, 1983? If so, what types of restrictions?
(3) What is the safety record of the segment, including current or anticipated safety problems? Specifically, is the route experiencing above normal accident rates and/or accident severities? Does analysis of the accident problem indicate that the addition of larger trucks have aggravated existing accident problems?
(4) What are the geometric, structural or traffic operations features that might preclude safe, efficient operation? Specifically describe lane widths, sight distance, severity and length of grades, horizontal curvature, shoulder width, narrow bridges, bridge clearances and load limits, traffic volumes and vehicle mix, intersection geometrics and vulnerability of roadside hardware.
(5) Is there a reasonable alternate route available?
(6) Are there operational restrictions that might be implemented in lieu of deletion?
(d)
Deletions and use restrictions—Federal-aid interstate.
(1) The deletion of, or imposition of use restrictions on, any specific segment of the Interstate Highway System on the National Network, except as otherwise provided in this part, must be approved by the FHWA. Such action will be initiated on the FHWA's own initiative or on the request of the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative of the State in which the Interstate segment is located. Requests from the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative shall be submitted along with justification for the deletion or restriction, in writing, to the appropriate FHWA Division Office for transmittal to Washington Headquarters.
(2) The justification accompanying a request shall be based on the following:
(i) Analysis of evidence of safety problems supporting the deletion or restriction as identified in § 658.11(c).
(ii) Analysis of the impact on interstate commerce.
(iii) Analysis and recommendation of any alternative routes that can safely accommodate commercial motor vehicles of the dimensions and configurations described in §§ 658.13 and 658.15 and serve the area in which such segment is located.
(iv) Evidence of consultation with the local governments in which the segment is located as well as the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative of any adjacent State that might be directly affected by such a deletion or restriction.
(3) Actions to ban all commercial vehicles on portions of the Interstate System not excepted under § 658.11(f) are considered deletions subject to the requirements of subsection (d) of this section.
(4) Reasonable restrictions on the use of Interstate routes on the National Network by STAA-authorized vehicles related to specific travel lanes of multi-lane facilities, construction zones, adverse weather conditions or structural or clearance deficiencies are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) Proposed deletions or restrictions will be published in the
Federal Register
as an NPRM, except in the case of an emergency deletion as prescribed in § 658.11(e). The FHWA will consider the factors set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the comments of interested parties. Any approval of deletion or restriction will be published as a final rule. A deletion of or restriction on a segment for reasons ascribable to dimensions of commercial motor vehicles described in either § 658.13 or § 658.15 shall result in a deletion or restriction for the purposes of both §§ 658.13 and 658.15.
(e)
Emergency deletions.
FHWA has the authority to delete any route from the National Network, on an emergency basis, for safety considerations. Emergency deletions are not considered final, and will be published in the
Federal Register
for notice and comment.
(f)
Exceptions.
Those portions of the Interstate System which were open to traffic and on which all commercial motor vehicles were banned on January 6, 1983, are not included in the National Network.
(g)
Restrictions—Federal-aid primary—other than interstate.
(1) Reasonable restrictions on the use of non-Interstate Federal-aid Primary routes on the National Network by STAA-authorized vehicles may be imposed during certain peak hours of travel or on specific travel lanes of multi-lane facilities. Restrictions related to construction zones, seasonal operation, adverse weather conditions or structural or clearance deficiencies may be imposed.
(2) All restrictions on the use of the National Network based on hours of use by vehicles authorized by the STAA require prior FHWA approval. Requests for such restrictions on the National Network shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate FHWA Division Office. Approval of requests for restrictions will be contingent on the ability to justify significant negative impact on safety, the environment and/or operational efficiency.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 12148, Apr. 13, 1988]
§ 658.13
Length.
(a) The length provisions of the STAA apply only to the following types of vehicle combinations:
(1) Truck tractor-semitrailer
(2) Truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer.
The length provisions apply only when these combinations are in use on the National Network or in transit between these highways and terminals or service locations pursuant to § 658.19.
(b) The length provisions referred to in paragraph (a) of this section include the following:
(1) No State shall impose a length limitation of less than 48 feet on a semitrailer operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination.
(2) No State shall impose a length limitation of less than 28 feet on any semitrailer or trailer operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination.
(3) No State shall impose an overall length limitation on commercial vehicles operating in truck tractor-semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(4) No State shall prohibit commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(5) No State shall prohibit the operation of semitrailers or trailers which are 28
1/2
feet long when operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination if such a trailer or semitrailer was in actual and lawful operation on December 1, 1982, and such combination had an overall length not exceeding 65 feet.
(c) State maximum length limits for semitrailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination and semitrailers and trailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination are subject to the following:
(1) No State shall prohibit the use of trailers or semitrailers of such dimensions as those that were in actual and lawful use in such State on December 1, 1982, as set out in appendix B of this part.
(2) If on December 1, 1982, State length limitations on a semitrailer were described in terms of the distance from the kingpin to rearmost axle, or end of semitrailer, the operation of any semitrailer that complies with that limitation must be allowed.
(d) No State shall impose a limit of less than 45 feet on the length of any bus on the NN.
(e)
Specialized equipment
—(1)
Automobile transporters.
(i) Automobile transporters are considered to be specialized equipment. As provided in § 658.5, automobile transporters may carry vehicles on the power unit behind the cab and on an over-cab rack. No State shall impose an overall length limitation of less than 65 feet on traditional automobile transporters (5th wheel located on tractor frame over rear axle(s)), including “low boys,” or less than 75 feet on stinger-steered automobile transporters. Paragraph (c) requires the States to allow operation of vehicles with the dimensions that were legal in the State on December 1, 1982.
(ii) All length provisions regarding automobile transporters are exclusive of front and rear cargo overhang. No State shall impose a front overhang limitation of less than 3 feet or a rear overhang limitation of less than 4 feet. Extendable ramps or “flippers” on automobile transporters that are used to achieve the allowable 3-foot front and 4-foot rear cargo overhangs are excluded from the measurement of vehicle length, but must be retracted when not supporting vehicles.
(iii) Drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter combinations are considered to be specialized equipment. No State shall impose an overall length limit of less or more than 97 feet on such combinations. This provision applies to drive-away saddlemount combinations with up to three saddlemounted vehicles. Such combinations may include one fullmount. Saddlemount combinations must also comply with the applicable motor carrier safety regulations at 49 CFR parts 390-399.
(2)
Boat transporters.
(i) Boat transporters are considered to be specialized equipment. As provided for automobile transporters in § 658.5, boat transporters may carry boats on the power unit so long as the length and width restrictions of the vehicles and load are not exceeded. No State shall impose an overall length limitation of less than 65 feet on traditional boat transporters (fifth wheel located on tractor frame over rear axle(s), including “low boys,” or less than 75 feet on stinger-steered boat transporters. In addition, no State shall impose an overall length limitation of less than 65 feet on truck-trailer boat transporters. Paragraph (c) of this section requires the States to allow operation of vehicles with the dimensions that were legal in the State on December 1, 1982.
(ii) All length provisions regarding boat transporters are exclusive of front and rear overhang. Further, no State shall impose a front overhang limitation of less than three (3) feet nor a rearmost overhang limitation of less than four (4) feet.
(3)
Truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer.
(i) Truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination vehicles are considered to be specialized equipment. No State shall impose a length limitation of less than 28 feet on any semitrailer or 28
1/2
feet if the semitrailer was in legal operation on December 1, 1982, operating in a truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination. No State shall impose an overall length limitation on a truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination when each semitrailer length is 28 feet, or 28
1/2
feet if grandfathered.
(ii) The B-train assembly is excluded from the measurement of trailer length when used between the first and second trailer of a truck-tractor semitrailer-semitrailer combination vehicle. However, when there is no semitrailer mounted to the B-train assembly, it will be included in the length measurement of the semitrailer, the length limitation in this case being 48 feet, or longer if grandfathered.
(4)
Maxi-cube vehicle.
No State shall impose a length limit on a maxi-cube vehicle, as defined in § 658.5 of this part, of less than 34 feet on either cargo box, excluding drawbar or hitching device; 60 feet on the distance from the front of the first to the rear of the second cargo box, including the space between the cargo boxes; or 65 feet on the overall length of the combination, including the space between the cargo boxes. The measurement for compliance with the 60- and 65-foot distance shall include the actual distance between cargo boxes, measured along the centerline of the drawbar or hitching device. For maxi-cubes with an adjustable length drawbar or hitching device, the 60- and 65-foot distances shall be measured with a drawbar spacing of not more than 27 inches. The drawbar may be temporarily extended beyond that distance to maneuver or load the vehicle.
(5)
Beverage semitrailer.
(i) A beverage semitrailer is specialized equipment if it has an upper coupler plate that extends beyond the front of the semitrailer, but not beyond its swing radius, as measured from the center line of the kingpin to a front corner of the semitrailer, which cannot be used for carrying cargo other than the structure of the semitrailer, and with the center line of the kingpin not more than 28 feet from the rear of the semitrailer (exclusive of rear-mounted
devices not measured in determining semitrailer length). No State shall impose an overall length limit on such vehicles when operating in a truck tractor-beverage semitrailer or truck tractor-beverage semitrailer-beverage trailer combination on the NN.
(ii) The beverage trailer referred to in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section means a beverage semitrailer and converter dolly. Converter dolly has the same meaning as in 49 CFR 393.5.
(iii) Truck tractor-beverage semitrailer combinations shall have the same access to points of loading and unloading as 28-foot semitrailers (28.5-foot where allowed by § 658.13) in 23 CFR 658.19.
(6)
Munitions carriers using dromedary equipment.
A truck tractor equipped with a dromedary unit operating in combination with a semitrailer is considered to be specialized equipment, providing the combination is transporting Class 1 explosives and/or any munitions related security material as specified by the U.S. Department of Defense in compliance with 49 CFR 177.835. No State shall impose an overall length limitation of less than 75 feet on the combination while in operation.
(f) A truck tractor containing a dromedary box, deck, or plate in legal operation on December 1, 1982, shall be permitted to continue to operate, notwithstanding its cargo carrying capacity, throughout its useful life. Proof of such legal operation on December 1, 1982, shall rest upon the operator of the equipment.
(g) No State shall impose a limitation of less than 46 feet on the distance from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle on trailers or semitrailers used exclusively or primarily to transport vehicles in connection with motorsports competition events.
(h) Truck-tractors, pulling 2 trailers or semitrailers, used to transport custom harvester equipment during harvest months within the State of Nebraska may not exceed 81 feet 6 inches.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 2597, 2599, Jan. 29, 1988; 53 FR 25485, July 7, 1988; 53 FR 48636, Dec. 2, 1988; 55 FR 4998, Feb. 13, 1990; 55 FR 32399, Aug. 9, 1990; 59 FR 30419, June 13, 1994; 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 63 FR 70653, Dec. 22, 1998; 67 FR 15109, Mar. 29, 2002; 68 FR 37968, June 26, 2003; 72 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 658.15
Width.
(a) No State shall impose a width limitation of more or less than 102 inches, or its approximate metric equivalent, 2.6 meters (102.36 inches) on a vehicle operating on the National Network, except for the State of Hawaii, which is allowed to keep the State's 108-inch width maximum by virtue of section 416(a) of the STAA.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to special mobile equipment as defined in § 658.5.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section or any other provision of law, a State may grant special use permits to motor vehicles, including manufactured housing, that exceed 102 inches in width.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 30419, June 13, 1994; 67 FR 15110, Mar. 29, 2002; 72 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 658.16
Exclusions from length and width determinations.
(a) Vehicle components not excluded by law or regulation shall be included in the measurement of the length and width of commercial motor vehicles.
(b) The following shall be excluded from either the measured length or width of commercial motor vehicles, as applicable:
(1) Rear view mirrors, turn signal lamps, handholds for cab entry/egress, splash and spray suppressant devices, load induced tire bulge;
(2) All non-property-carrying devices, or components thereof—
(i) At the front of a semitrailer or trailer, or
(ii) That do not extend more than 3 inches beyond each side or the rear of the vehicle, or
(iii) That do not extend more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading or unloading, or
(vi) Listed in appendix D to this part;
(3) Resilient bumpers that do not extend more than 6 inches beyond the front or rear of the vehicle;
(4) Aerodynamic devices that extend a maximum of 5 feet beyond the rear of the vehicle, provided such devices have neither the strength, rigidity nor mass to damage a vehicle, or injure a passenger in a vehicle, that strikes a trailer so equipped from the rear, and provided also that they do not obscure tail lamps, turn signals, marker lamps, identification lamps, or any other required safety devices, such as hazardous materials placards or conspicuity markings; and
(5) A fixed step up to 3 inches deep at the front of an existing automobile transporter until April 29, 2005. It will be the responsibility of the operator of the unit to prove that the step existed prior to April 29, 2002. Such proof can be in the form of a work order for equipment modification, a receipt for purchase and installation of the piece, or any similar type of documentation. However, after April 29, 2005, the step shall no longer be excluded from a vehicle's length.
(c) Each exclusion allowance is specific and may not be combined with other excluded devices.
(d) Measurements are to be made from a point on one side or end of a commercial motor vehicle to the same point on the opposite side or end of the vehicle.
[67 FR 15110, Mar. 29, 2002]
§ 658.17
Weight.
(a) The provisions of the section are applicable to the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways and reasonable access thereto.
(b) The maximum gross vehicle weight shall be 80,000 pounds except where lower gross vehicle weight is dictated by the bridge formula.
(c) The maximum gross weight upon any one axle, including any one axle of a group of axles, or a vehicle is 20,000 pounds.
(d) The maximum gross weight on tandem axles is 34,000 pounds.
(e) No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be moved or operated on any Interstate highway when the gross weight on two or more consecutive axles exceeds the limitations prescribed by the following formula, referred to as the Bridge Gross Weight Formula:
EC14OC91.012
except that two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each if the overall distance between the first and last axle is 36 feet or more. In no case shall the total gross weight of a vehicle exceed 80,000 pounds.
(f) Except as provided herein, States may not enforce on the Interstate System vehicle weight limits of less than 20,000 pounds on a single axle, 34,000 pounds on a tandem axle, or the weights derived from the Bridge Formula, up to a maximum of 80,000 pounds, including all enforcement tolerances. States may not limit tire loads to less than 500 pounds per inch of tire or tread width, except that such limits may not be applied to tires on the steering axle. States may not limit steering axle weights to less than 20,000 pounds or the axle rating established by the manufacturer, whichever is lower.
(g) The weights in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall be inclusive of all tolerances, enforcement or otherwise, with the exception of a scale allowance factor when using portable scales (wheel-load weighers). The current accuracy of such scales is generally within 2 or 3 percent of actual weight, but in no case shall an allowance in excess of 5 percent be applied. Penalty or fine schedules which impose no fine up to a specified threshold,
i.e.
, 1,000 pounds, will be considered as tolerance provisions not authorized by 23 U.S.C. 127.
(h) States may issue special permits without regard to the axle, gross, or Federal Bridge Formula requirements for nondivisible vehicles or loads.
(i) The provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall not apply to single-, or tandem-axle weights, or gross weights legally authorized under State law on July 1, 1956. The group of axles requirement established in this section shall not apply to vehicles legally grandfathered
under State groups of axles tables or formulas on January 4, 1975. Grandfathered weight limits are vested on the date specified by Congress and remain available to a State even if it chooses to adopt a lower weight limit for a time.
(j) The provisions of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section shall not apply to the operation on Interstate Route 68 in Allegany and Garrett Counties, Maryland, of any specialized vehicle equipped with a steering axle and a tridem axle and used for hauling coal, logs, and pulpwood if such vehicle is of a type of vehicle as was operating in such counties on U.S. Routes 40 or 48 for such purposes on August 1, 1991.
(k) Any over-the-road bus, or any vehicle which is regularly and exclusively used as an intrastate public agency transit passenger bus, is excluded from the axle weight limits in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section until October 1, 2009. Any State that has enforced, in the period beginning October 6, 1992, and ending November 30, 2005, a single axle weight limitation of 20,000 pounds or greater but less than 24,000 pounds may not enforce a single axle weight limit on these vehicles of less than 24,000 lbs.
(m) The provisions of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section shall not apply to the operation, on I-99 between Bedford and Bald Eagle, Pennsylvania, of any vehicle that could legally operate on this highway section before December 29, 1995.
(n) Any vehicle subject to this subpart that utilizes an auxiliary power or idle reduction technology unit in order to promote reduction of fuel use and emissions because of engine idling, may be allowed up to an additional 400 lbs. total in gross, axle, tandem, or bridge formula weight limits.
(1) To be eligible for this exception, the operator of the vehicle must be able to prove:
(i) By written certification, the weight of the APU; and
(ii) By demonstration or certification, that the idle reduction technology is fully functional at all times.
(2) Certification of the weight of the APU must be available to law enforcement officers if the vehicle is found in violation of applicable weight laws. The additional weight allowed cannot exceed 400 lbs. or the weight certified, whichever is less.
[49 FR 23315, June 5, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 30420, June 13, 1994; 60 FR 15214, Mar. 22, 1995; 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 63 FR 70653, Dec. 22, 1998; 72 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 658.19
Reasonable access.
(a) No State may enact or enforce any law denying reasonable access to vehicles with dimensions authorized by the STAA between the NN and terminals and facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest. In addition, no State may enact or enforce any law denying reasonable access between the NN and points of loading and unloading to household goods carriers, motor carriers of passengers, and any truck tractor-semitrailer combination in which the semitrailer has a length not to exceed 28 feet (28.5 feet where allowed pursuant to § 658.13(b)(5) of this part) and which generally operates as part of a vehicle combination described in §§ 658.13(b)(5) and 658.15(a) of this part.
(b) All States shall make available to commercial motor vehicle operators information regarding their reasonable access provisions to and from the National Network.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing any State or local government from imposing any reasonable restriction, based on safety considerations, on access to points of loading and unloading by any truck tractor-semitrailer combination in which the semitrailer has a length not to exceed 28
1/2
feet and which generally operates as part of a vehicle combination described in §§ 658.13(b)(5) and 658.15(a).
(d) No State may enact or enforce any law denying access within 1 road-mile from the National Network using the most reasonable and practicable route available except for specific safety reasons on individual routes.
(e) Approval of access for specific vehicles on any individual route applies to all vehicles of the same type regardless of ownership. Distinctions between vehicle types shall be based only on significant, substantial differences in their operating characteristics.
(f) Blanket restrictions on 102-inch wide vehicles may not be imposed.
(g) Vehicle dimension limits shall not be more restrictive than Federal requirements.
(h) States shall ensure compliance with the requirements of this section for roads under the jurisdiction of local units of government.
(i)(1) Except in those States in which State law authorizes the operation of STAA-dimensioned vehicles on all public roads and highways, all States shall have an access review process that provides for the review of requests for access from the National Network.
(2) State access review processes shall provide for:
(i) One or more of the following:
(A) An analysis of the proposed access routes using observations or other data obtained from the operation of test vehicles over the routes;
(B) An analysis of the proposed access routes by application of vehicle templates to plans of the routes;
(C) A general provision for allowing access, without requiring a request, for commercial motor vehicles with semitrailers with a kingpin distance of 41 feet or less (measured from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle, if single, or the center of a group of rear axles). State safety analyses may be conducted on individual routes if warranted; and
(ii) All of the following:
(A) The denial of access to terminals and services only on the basis of safety and engineering analysis of the access route.
(B) The automatic approval of an access request if not acted upon within 90 days of receipt by the State. This provision shall become effective no later than 12 months following the effective date of this rule unless an extension is requested by the State and approved by FHWA.
(C) The denial of access for any 102-inch wide vehicles only on the basis of the characteristics of specific routes, in particular significant deficiencies in lane width.
(j)(1) Each State shall submit its access provisions to FHWA for approval within 6 months after June 1, 1990. In those States in which State law authorizes the operation of STAA-dimensioned vehicles on all public roads and highways, no submission or approval under this paragraph is required. If, in the future, such a State changes its authorizing legislation and restricts the operation of STAA-dimensioned vehicles, then compliance with these provisions will be necessary.
(2) The FHWA will review the access provisions as submitted by each State subject to the provisions in paragraph (j)(1) and approve those that are in compliance with the requirements of this section. The FHWA may, at a State's request, approve State provisions that differ from the requirements of this section if FHWA determines that they provide reasonable access for STAA-dimensioned vehicles and do not impose an unreasonable burden on motor freight carriers, shippers and receivers and service facility operators.
(3) Any State that does not have FHWA approved access provisions in effect within 1 year after June 1, 1990 shall follow the requirements and the criteria set forth in this section and section 658.5 and 658.19 for determining access for STAA-dimensioned vehicles to terminals and services. The FHWA may approve a State's request for a time extension if it is received by FHWA at least 1 month before the end of the 1 year period.
[53 FR 12149, Apr. 13, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 22763, June 1, 1990; 59 FR 30420, June 13, 1994]
§ 658.21
Identification of National Network.
(a) To identify the National Network, a State may sign the routes or provide maps of lists of highways describing the National Network.
(b) Exceptional local conditions on the National Network shall be signed. All signs shall conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Exceptional conditions shall include but not be limited to:
(1) Operational restrictions designed to maximize the efficiency of the total traffic flow, such as time of day prohibitions, or lane use controls.
(2) Geometric and structural restrictions, such as vertical clearances, posted weight limits on bridges, or restrictions caused by construction operations.
(3) Detours from urban Interstate routes to bypass of circumferential
routes for commercial motor vehicles not destined for the urban area to be bypassed.
§ 658.23
LCV freeze; cargo-carrying unit freeze.
(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section and except for tow trucks with vehicles in tow, a State may allow the operation of LCV's on the Interstate System only as listed in appendix C to this part.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a State may not allow the operation on the NN of any CMV combination with two or more cargo-carrying units (not including the truck tractor) whose cargo-carrying units exceed:
(i) The maximum combination trailer, semitrailer, or other type of length limitation authorized by State law or regulation of that State on or before June 1, 1991; or
(ii) The length of the cargo-carrying units of those CMV combinations, by specific configuration, in actual, lawful operation on a regular or periodic basis (including continuing seasonal operation) in that State on or before June 1, 1991, as listed in appendix C to this part.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the following CMV combinations with two or more cargo-carrying units may operate on the NN.
(1) Truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer and truck tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combinations with a maximum length of the individual cargo units of 28.5 feet or less.
(2) Vehicles described in § 658.13(e) and (g).
(3) Truck-trailer and truck-semitrailer combinations with an overall length of 65 feet or less.
(4) Maxi-cubes.
(5) Tow trucks with vehicles in tow.
(c) For specific safety purposes and road construction, a State may make minor adjustments of a temporary and emergency nature to route designation and vehicle operating restrictions applicable to combinations subject to 23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112 and in effect on June 1, 1991 (July 6, 1991, for Alaska). Minor adjustments which last 30 days or less may be made without notifying the FHWA. Minor adjustments which exceed 30 days require approval of the FHWA. When such adjustments are needed, a State must submit to the FHWA, by the end of the 30th day, a written description of the emergency, the date on which it began, and the date on which it is expected to conclude. If the adjustment involves alternate route designations, the State shall describe the new route on which vehicles otherwise subject to the freeze imposed by 23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112 are allowed to operate. To the extent possible, the geometric and pavement design characteristics of the alternate route should be equivalent to those of the highway section which is temporarily unavailable. If the adjustment involves vehicle operating restrictions, the State shall list the restrictions that have been removed or modified. If the adjustment is approved, the FHWA will publish the notice of adjustment, with an expiration date, in the
Federal Register.
Requests for extension of time beyond the originally established conclusion date shall be subject to the same approval and publications process as the original request. If upon consultation with the FHWA a decision is reached that minor adjustments made by a State are not legitimately attributable to road or bridge construction or safety, the FHWA will inform the State, and the original conditions of the freeze must be reimposed immediately. Failure to do so may subject the State to a penalty pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 141.
(d) A State may issue a permit authorizing a CMV to transport an overlength nondivisible load on two or more cargo-carrying units on the NN without regard to the restrictions in § 658.23(a)(2).
(e) States further restricting or prohibiting the operation of vehicles subject to 23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112 after June 1, 1991, shall notify the FHWA within 30 days after the restriction is effective. The FHWA will publish the restriction in the
Federal Register
as an amendment to appendix C to this part. Failure to provide such notification may subject the State to a penalty pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 141.
(f) The Federal Highway Administrator, on his or her own motion or
upon a request by any person (including a State), shall review the information set forth in appendix C to this part. If the Administrator determines there is cause to believe that a mistake was made in the accuracy of the information contained in appendix C to this part, the Administrator shall commence a proceeding to determine whether the information published should be corrected. If the Administrator determines that there is a mistake in the accuracy of the information contained in appendix C to this part, the Administrator shall publish in the
Federal Register
the appropriate corrections to reflect that determination.
[59 FR 30420, June 13, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 15214, Mar. 22, 1995; 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 72 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 2007]
Pt. 658, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 658—National Network—Federally-Designated Routes
[The federally-designated routes on the National Network consist of the Interstate System, except as noted, and the following additional highways.]
Route
From
To
Alabama
US 43
I-65 N. of Mobile
Sunflower.
US 43
AL 5 near Russellville
TN State Line.
US 72
MS State Line
CR 33 Hollywood.
US 72 Alt
US 72 Tuscumbia
US 72/231/431 Huntsville.
US 78
End of 4-lane W. of AL 5 Jasper
I-59 Birmingham.
US 80
AL 14 W. Int. Selma
US 82 Montgomery.
US 82
Coker W. of I-59
Eoline W. of AL 5.
US 82
AL 206 Prattville
US 231 N. Int. Montgomery.
US 84
AL 92 E. of Daleville (via AL 210 Dothan Cir.)
End of 4-lane E. of Dothan.
US 98
I-10 Daphne
End of 4-lane near Fairhope.
US 231
FL State Line (via AL 210 Dothan Circle.)
End of 4-lane N. of Wetumpka.
US 231
Arab
TN State Line.
US 280
US 31 Mountain Brook
AL 22 Alexander City.
US 280
I-85 Opelika
GA State Line Phenix City.
US 431
AL 210 Dothan
AL 173 Headland.
US 431
I-20 Anniston
AL 79 N. Int. Columbus City (via I-59—AL 77 Gadsden).
US 431
CR 8 New Hope
TN State Line.
AL 21
US 31 Atmore
I-65 N. of Atmore.
AL 21
US 431 Anniston
Jacksonville.
AL 67
I-65 Priceville
US 72 Alt. W. of Decatur.
AL 79
I-59 Birmingham
Pinson.
AL 152
US 231 N. Int. Montgomery
I-65 N. Int. Montgomery.
AL 210
Dothan Circle (Beltway)
AL 248
US 84 Enterprise
Ft. Rucker.
AL 249
Ft. Rucker
US 231.
Alaska
AK 1
Potter Weigh Station Anchorage
AK 3 Palmer.
AK 2
AK 3 Fairbanks
Milepost 1412 Delta Junction.
AK 3
AK 1 Palmer
AK 2 Fairbanks.
Note:
Routes added to the Interstate System under 23 U.S.C. 139(c) are included only to the extent designated above.
Arizona
US 60
I-10 Brenda
I-17 Phoenix.
US 60
AZ 87 Mesa
AZ 70 Globe.
US 60
AZ 260 E. Int. Show Low
NM State Line.
US 64
US 160 Teec Nos Pos
NM State Line.
US 70
US 60 Globe
NM State Line.
US 80
AZ 92 Bisbee
NM State Line.
US 89
I-10 Tucson
US 60 Florence Junction.
US 89
AZ 69 Prescott
I-40 Ash Fork.
US 89
I-40 Flagstaff
UT State Line.
US 95
Mexican Border
I-8 Yuma.
US 160
US 89 Tuba City
NM State Line.
US 163
US 160 Kayenta
UT State Line.
US 666
I-10 Bowie
US 70 Safford.
US 666
US 60 Springerville
I-40 Sanders.
US 666
Mexican Border
US 80 Douglas.
AZ 69
US 89 Prescott
I-17 Cordes Junction.
AZ 77
US 60 Show Low
I-40 Holbrook.
AZ 84
I-10 Picacho
AZ 87 E. of Eloy.
AZ 85
I-8 Gila Bend (via I-8B)
I-10 Buckeye (via AZ 85 Spur).
AZ 87
AZ 84 E. of Eloy
AZ 387 W. of Coolidge.
AZ 87
AZ 587 Chandler
US 60 Mesa.
AZ 90
I-10 Benson
AZ 92 Sierra Vista.
AZ 169
AZ 69 Dewey
I-17 S. of Camp Verde.
AZ 189
Mexican Border
I-19 Nogales.
AZ 287
AZ 87 Coolidge
US 89 Florence.
AZ 360
I-10 Phoenix
AZ 87 Mesa.
AZ 387
I-10 Exit 185
AZ 87 W. of Coolidge.
AZ 587 (Old AZ 93)
I-10 Exit 175
AZ 87 Chandler.
Arkansas
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
California
I-80 Bus. Loop (US 50-CA 51)
I-80 W. Sacramento
I-80 near Watt Ave., Sacramento.
US 6
US 395 Bishop
NV State Line.
US 50
I-80 W. of Sacramento
Sly Park Rd. Pollock Pines.
US 95
I-40 near Needles
NV State Line.
US 101
I-5 Los Angeles
I-80 San Francisco.
US 395
I-15 S. of Victorville
NV State Line.
CA 2
I-5
I-210 Los Angeles.
CA 10 (San Bern. Fwy.)
US 101
I-5 Los Angeles.
CA 14
I-5 near San Fernando
US 395 Ridgecrest.
CA 15
I-5
I-805 San Diego.
CA 22
I-405 Seal Beach
CA 55 Orange.
CA 24
I-580 Oakland
I-680 Walnut Creek.
CA 52
I-5
I-805 San Diego.
CA 55
I-405 Costa Mesa
CA 91 Anaheim.
CA 57
I-5 Santa Ana
I-210 Pomona.
CA 58
CA 99 Bakersfield
I-15 Barstow.
CA 60
I-10 Los Angeles
I-10 Beaumont.
CA 71
I-210
CA 60 Pomona.
CA 78
I-5 Carlsbad
I-15 Escondido.
CA 85
I-280 near San Jose
CA 101 Mountain View.
CA 91
I-110 Los Angeles
I-215/CA 60 Riverside.
CA 92
I-280 San Mateo
I-880 Hayward.
CA 94
I-5
CA 125 San Diego.
CA 99
I-5 Wheeler Ridge
I-80 Bus. Loop/US 50 Sacramento.
CA 110
I-10
US 101 Los Angeles.
CA 118
I-405 Los Angeles
I-210 San Fernando.
CA 125
CA 94
I-8 La Mesa.
CA 133
I-405
I-5 near El Toro.
CA 134
US 101 Los Angeles
I-210 Pasadena.
CA 163
I-8
I-15 San Diego.
CA 170
US 101
I-5 Los Angeles.
CA 198
I-5 Coalinga
CA 99 Visalia.
CA 215
I-15 N. of Temecula
CA 60 Riverside.
CA 905 (Old CA 117)
I-5
I-805 San Diego.
Note:
I-580 Oakland—All vehicles over 4
1/2
tons (except passenger buses and stages) are prohibited on MacArthur Freeway between Grand Avenue and the north city limits of San Leandro. (Excepted under 23 CFR 658.11(f)).
Colorado
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Connecticut
CT 2
Columbus Blvd. Hartford
I-395 Norwich.
CT 8
I-95 Bridgeport
US 44 Winsted.
CT 9
I-95 Old Saybrook
I-91 Cromwell.
CT 20
CT 401 Bradley Intl. Airport, Windsor Locks
I-91 Windsor.
CT 401
CT 20 Windsor Locks
Bradley Intl. Airport Access Rd., Windsor Lks.
Delaware
US 13
MD State Line
I-495 S. Int. Wilmington.
US 40
MD State Line
I-295/US 13 Wilmington.
US 113
MD State Line
US 13 Dover.
US 301
MD State Line
I-295/US 13 Wilmington.
District of Columbia
Anacostia Fwy/Ken. Ave
I-295
MD State Line Cheverly MD
Note:
I-66—There is a 24 hour total truck ban on the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Bridge and its approaches. (Excepted under 23 CFR 658.11(f).)
Florida
US 27
FL Turnpike Ext
FL 84 Andytown.
US 27
South Bay
I-75 Ocala.
US 301
SR 24 Waldo
I-10.
FL 24
SR 331 Gainesville
US 301 Waldo.
FL 85
FL 397 Valparaiso
I-10 near Crestview.
FL 202
I-95 Jacksonville
FL A-1-A.
FL 263
US 90 W. of Tallahassee
I-10.
FL 331
I-75 S. of Gainesville
FL 24.
FL 397
Entrance Eglin AFB
FL 85 Valparaiso.
FL 528-FL 407
I-4 Orlando
Cape Canaveral.
20th St. Expwy
1-95 Jacksonville
Adams St. near Matthews Bridge.
FL Turnpike
S. End of Homestead Extension
I-75 Wildwood.
Georgia
US 19
FL State Line
US 82 Albany.
US 23/GA 365
I-985 near Gainesville
US 441 near Cornelia.
US 25
I-16
N. of Statesboro.
US 27
GA 53 Rome
US 278 Cedartown.
US 27
FL State Line
GA 38 Bainbridge.
US 27 Alternate GA 85
I-185 Columbus
Ellerslie.
US 29
US 78 W. Interchange
US 129/441 E. Interchange Athens.
US 41
I-75 W. of Morrow
Near Barnesville.
US 41
GA 5 Connector
County Road 633 Emerson.
US 76
I-75 Dalton
US 411 Chatsworth.
US 78-US 29
GA 138 Monroe
US 29 W. Interchange Athens.
US 78/GA 410
Valleybrook Rd. Scottsdale
GA 10 Stone Mountain.
US 78/GA 10
Stone Mountain Freeway
Monroe Bypass.
US 80/GA 22
AL State Line
GA 85 Columbus.
US 82/GA 520
Dawson
I-95 Exit 6 Brunswick.
US 84/GA 38
Alabama State Line
I-75.
US 84/GA 38
GA 520 Waycross
GA 32 Patterson.
US 129
I-16
Gray.
US 129
GA 247 Connector Warner Robins
I-75 Macon.
US 129/GA 11
I-85
I-985.
US 280/GA 520
Alabama State Line
Dawson.
US 319/GA 35
US 19/GA 300 Thomasville
US 82/GA 520 Tifton.
US 411-US 41
US 27 Rome
I-75 near Emerson.
US 441/GA 31
US 82/GA 520 Pearson
GA 135 Douglas.
US 441/GA 24
I-20
GA 22 Milledgeville.
US 441/GA 15
Athens Bypass
I-85.
GA 2
US 27 Fort Oglethorpe.
I-75.
GA 5 Connector
I-75
US 41.
GA 6
I-20
GA 6 Bypass near Dallas.
GA 6 Bypass
E. of Dallas
W. of Dallas.
GA 10 Loop
E. and S. Bypass in Athens
GA 14 Spur
US 29/Welcome All Road
I-85/285 S. Interchange Atlanta.
GA 21
I-95 Monteith
GA 204 Savannah.
GA 25
GA 520
GA 25 Spur.
GA 25 Spur
US 17 N. of Brunswick
I-95 Exit 8.
GA 53
Rome
I-75 Calhoun.
GA 61
I-20
GA 166 near Carrollton.
GA 85
Fayetteville
I-75.
GA 138
I-20 Conyers
US 78 Monroe.
GA 166
GA 61
End of 4-lane section of W. GA 1 Carrollton.
GA 247C
I-75
GA 247 Warner Robins.
GA 300
US 82 Albany
I-75 near Cordele.
GA 316
I-85
US 29.
GA 400
I-285 near Atlanta
GA 60.
GA 515
I-575
Blairsville.
GA 520
I-95
GA 25.
Note:
Atlanta area—Interstate highways within the I-285 beltway are not available to through trucks with more than 6 wheels because of construction.
Hawaii
HI 61
HI 98 (Vineyard Boulevard)
Kawainui Bridge Kailua.
HI 63
HI 92 (Nimitz Hwy.)
HI 83 (Kahekili Hwy.).
HI 64
Sand Island Park
HI 92 (Nimitz Hwy.).
HI 72
61 Kailua/Waimanalo Junction
Ainakoa.
HI 78
H-1 Middle St
HI 99 (Kamehameha Hwy.) Aiea.
HI 83
HI 99 Weed Junction
HI 61 (Kalanianaole Hwy).
HI 92
Pearl Harbor/Main Gate
Kalakaua Avenue.
HI 93
Beginning of H-1
Makaha Bridge.
HI 95
H-1
Barbers Point Harbor.
HI 99
Pearl Harbor Int.
HI 83 Weed Junction.
Idaho
I-15B
I-15/US 26 S. of Idaho Falls
US 26 N. Int. Idaho Falls.
US 2
Dover
US 95 Sandpoint.
US 2
US 95 Bonners Ferry
MT State Line.
US 20/26
OR State Line
I-84 W. Caldwell Int. Caldwell
US 20
I-84 Mountain Home
MT State Line.
US 26
I-84 Bliss
I-15 Blackfoot.
US 30
US 95 Fruitland
ID 72 New Plymouth.
US 30
I-15 McCammon
WY State Line.
US 89
UT State Line
US 30 Montpelier.
US 91
UT State Line
I-15 Virginia.
US 93
NV State Line
Arco.
US 95
OR State Line S. of Marsing
OR State Line Weiser (via US 95 Spur).
US 95
Grangeville
Moscow.
US 95
I-90 Coeur D'Alene
US 2 Bonners Ferry.
ID 16
ID 44 Star
Emmett.
ID 28
ID 33 Mud Lake
US 93 Salmon.
ID 33
ID 28 Mud Lake
US 20 Rexburg
ID 44
I-84 Caldwe1l
ID 55 Eagle.
ID 51
NV State Line
I-84 Mountain Home.
ID 53
WA State Line
US 95 Garwood.
ID 55
US 95 Marsing
I-84 Nampa.
ID 55
US 20/26 S. of Eagle
ID 44 Eagle.
ID 75
US 93 Shoshone
Ketchum.
ID 87
US 20 N. of Macks Inn
MT State Line.
Illinois
US 20
US 20 BR W. of Rockford
I-39 Rockford.
US 36
IL 100 NW. of Winchester
I-55 Springfield.
US 50
US 50 BR E. of Lawrenceville
IN State Line.
US 51
US 51 BR S. of Decatur
I-72 Decatur.
US 67
IL 92 Rock Island
IA State Line.
IL 6
I-74/474 Peoria
IL 88 N. of Peoria.
IL 53
Army Trail Rd. Addison
IL 68 Arlington Heights.
IL 92
I-280 Rock Island
US 67 Rock Island.
IL 336
IL 57 Fall Creek
US 24 NE. of Quincy.
IL 394
IL 1 Goodenow
I-80/94/294 S. Holland.
IL Toll Hwys
All Routes
Indiana
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Iowa
Note:
Iowa State law allows STAA-dimensioned vehicles to operate on all highways in the State. The routes shown below were incorporated into the NN by the FHWA in 1984.
US 6
NE State Line
I-80 Council Bluffs.
US 6
IA 48 Lewis
I-80 N. of Wilton.
US 6
IA 130 Davenport
I-74.
US 18
WCL Rock Valley
WI State Line.
US 20
I-29 Sioux City
IL State Line.
US 30
Missouri River Bridge (NE)
IL State Line Clinton.
US 34
Missouri River Bridge (NE)
IL State Line Burlington.
US 52
US 61 Dubuque
IA 386 N. Int. Sageville.
US 52
IA 3 Luxemburg
US 18 E. Int.
US 52
ECL Calmar
Burr Oak.
US 59
IA 2 Shenandoah
IA 184.
US 59
IA 92 Carson
US 6 N. Int.
US 59
IA 83 Avoca
US 30 Denison.
US 59
US 20 Holstein
IA 3.
US 59
IA 10 E. Int. W. of Sutherland
US 18 Sanborn.
US 61
Des Moines River Bridge (MO) Keokuk
WI State Line.
US 63
MO State Line
IA 146 New Sharon.
US 63
I-80 Malcom
NCL Chester.
US 65
US 34 N. Int. Lucas
IA 117/330.
US 65
US 30 Colo
Sheffield.
US 65
SCL Mason City
IA 105 Northwood.
US 67
IL State Line Davenport
4.64 Miles N. of Clinton.
US 69
SCL Lamoni
I-35.
US 69
US 6/65 Des Moines
IA 105 Lake Mills.
US 71
MO State Line
IA 196 Ulmer.
US 71
US 20 Early
MN State Line.
US 75
I-29 N. Int. Sioux City
IA 9 E. Int.
US 77
NE State Line
I-29 Sioux City.
US 136
Des Moines River Bridge (MO)
Mississippi River Bridge Keokuk.
US 151
I-80 E. of Williamsburg
US 61 S. Int.
US 169
SCL Arispe
IA 92 Winterset.
US 169
SCL Desoto
I-80.
US 169
US 6 Adel
IA 141 Perry.
US 169
US 30 Beaver
IA 3.
US 169
US 18 Algona
IA 9 W. Int. Swea City.
US 218
US 136 Keokuk
IA 92 Ainsworth.
US 218
IA 22 Riverside
IA 227.
IA 1
IA 16 N. Int
IA 78 W. Int. Richland.
IA 1
IA 92 N. Int
IA 22 Kalona.
IA 1
US 6/218 N. Int. Iowa City
I-80 Iowa City.
IA 1
SCL Martelle
US 151.
IA 2
NE State Line
IA 25 W. of Mt. Ayr.
IA 2
Decatur Co. Line
Mississippi River Bridge (IL) Ft. Madison.
IA 3
SD State Line
IA 12 N. Int. Akron.
IA 3
US 75 Le Mars
IA 7.
IA 3
IA 17 E. Int. Goldfield
IA 13 W. Int.
IA 4
IA 3 Pocahontas
US 18 E. Int.
IA 4
SCL Wallingford
IA 9 Estherville.
IA 5
IA 2 Centerville
I-35.
IA 7
IA 3
US 71 N. Int. Storm Lake.
IA 7
Barnum
US 20 Fort Dodge.
IA 8
US 63 Traer
US 218.
IA 9
IA 60
IA 26 Lansing.
IA 10
US 59 E. Int
ECL Sutherland.
IA 12
US 20
NCL Sioux City.
IA 13
US 30 Bertram
US 52.
IA 14
IA 92/5
NCL Newton.
IA 14
US 30 Marshalltown
US 20 S. Int.
IA 15
US 18 Whittemore
IA 9 W. Int.
IA 16
NCL Eldon
IA 1 N. Int.
IA 16
Denmark
US 61 Wever.
IA 17
IA 141 Granger
IA 3 E. Int.
IA 21
SCL What Cheer
IA 412 Waterloo.
IA 22
WCL Wellman
IA 70 W. Int.
IA 23
US 63 Ottumwa
IA 137 Eddyville.
IA 25
IA 2
IA 92 Greenfield.
IA 25
IA 925 W. Int
IA 44 Guthrie Center.
IA 26
IA 9 Lansing
New Albin.
IA 28
IA 92
US 6 Des Moines.
IA 31
SCL Correctionville
US 59.
IA 37
WCL Earling
US 59.
IA 38
US 61 Muscatine
I-80.
IA 38
SCL Tipton
US 30 E. Int.
IA 39
US 59 Denison
Deloit.
IA 44
US 71 Hamlin
IA 141.
IA 46
IA 5
IA 163 Des Moines.
IA 48
US 59 Shenandoah
NCL Essex.
IA 48
US 34 Red Oak
US 6.
IA 49
SCL Lenox
US 34.
IA 51
US 18 Postville
IA 9.
IA 55
Seymour
IA 2.
IA 60
US 75 Lemars
MN State Line.
IA 62
US 61 Maquoketa
US 52 Bellevue.
IA 64
US 151 Anamosa
US 61.
IA 70
Columbus City
IA 22 W. Int.
IA 77
IA 92
Keota.
IA 78
IA 149
IA 249 Winfield.
IA 78
WCL Morning Sun
US 61.
IA 83
S. of Walnut
US 6 Atlantic.
IA 85
US 63 Montezuma
IA 21.
IA 86
US 71
IA 9 Montgomery.
IA 92
NE State Line
IA 48 Griswold.
IA 92
WCL Fontanelle
IA 1 N. Int.
IA 92
IA 1 S. Int
Cotter.
IA 93
WCL Sumner
IA 150 Fayette.
IA 94
I-380 Cedar Rapids
Palo.
IA 96
Gladbrook
US 63 Traer.
IA 99
Toolesboro
US 61 Wapello.
IA 100
IA 151 Cedar Rapids
I-380.
IA 103
US 218
US 61 Fort Madison.
IA 105
US 69 Lake Mills
US 218 St. Ansgar.
IA 107
SCL Thornton
US 18 Clear Lake.
IA 110
US 20
IA 7 Storm Lake.
IA 111
US 18 Britt
Woden.
IA 117
IA 163 Prairie City
US 65.
IA 127
IA 183 S. Int
US 30 Logan.
IA 130
US 61/67 Davenport
I-80.
IA 133
US 30
Nevada.
IA 136
ECL Delmar
WCL Lost Nation.
IA 136
SCL Worthington
US 52/IA 3 Luxemburg.
IA 137
IA 5 Albia
IA 23.
IA 141
I-29
US 30/59 Denison.
IA 141
WCL Manning
US 169.
IA 141
IA 210 Woodward
I-35 Urbandale.
IA 144
IA 141 Perry
US 30 Grand Junction.
IA 145
I-29
ECL Thurman.
IA 146
US 63 New Sharon
Dunbar.
IA 148
IA 2 Bedford
US 34.
IA 148
IA 951 Carbon
I-80.
IA 149
US 63
IA 78 Martinsburg.
IA 149
SCL Williamsburg
I-80.
IA 150
US 218 Vinton
IA 283.
IA 150
US 20
US 18 West Union.
IA 150 (Old)
I-380 Center Point
IA 150.
IA 157
US 63
Lime Springs.
IA 160
US 69/IA 415
I-35 Ankeny.
IA 163
US 65 Des Moines
IA 92 Oskaloosa.
IA 173
IA 83 Atlantic
I-80.
IA 175
NE State Line
ECL Onawa.
IA 175
US 71 S. Int
ECL Lake City.
IA 175
Gowrie
ECL Dayton.
IA 175
WCL Stratford
ECL Radcliffe.
IA 175
US 65 N. Int
US 63 Voorhies.
IA 181
Melcher-Dallas
IA 5/92.
IA 183
IA 127 N. Int
NCL Pisgah.
IA 184
WCL Randolph
US 59.
IA 192
I-29/80
I-29 Council Bluffs.
IA 196
US 71
US 20 Sac City.
IA 210
IA 141
NCL Woodward.
IA 210
IA 17 N. Int
ECL Slater.
IA 215
Union
IA 175 Eldora.
IA 221
I-35
Roland.
IA 227
US 218
Stacyville.
IA 244
I-80
IA 191 Neola.
IA 249
IA 78
Winfield.
IA 272
Elma
US 63.
IA 273
WCL Drakesville
US 63.
IA 276
US 71
IA 327 Orleans.
IA 279
US 30
Atkins.
IA 281
WCL Fairbank
IA 150.
IA 283
Brandon
IA 150.
IA 287
US 30
Newhall.
IA 300
Modale
I-29.
IA 316
IA 5 Pleasantville
NCL Runnells.
IA 330
US 65
US 30 Marshalltown.
IA 363
IA 101
Urbana.
IA 401
US 6
Johnston.
IA 405
Lone Tree
IA 22.
IA 406
US 34
US 61 Burlington.
IA 415
US 6 Des Moines
IA 160.
IA 927
IA 38 Wilton
1-280 Davenport.
IA 928
US 20/IA 17
US 20 Williams.
IA 930
US 30
Ames.
IA 939
IA 150 Independence
IA 187.
IA 964
IA 5/92
IA 975/14 Knoxville.
IA 967
US 20
Farley.
IA 975
IA 5/92
IA 964/14 Knoxville.
University Ave
US 20 SW. of Cedar Falls
US 218 Cedar Falls.
Kansas
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Kentucky
I-471 Connector
US 27 Highland Heights
I-275/471 Interchange.
US 23
Virginia State Line
US 119 near Jenkins.
US 23
US 119 N. of Pikeville
S. end U.S. Grant Bridge South Portsmouth.
US 23 Spur
US 60 Ashland (via 13th St. Bridge)
Ohio State Line.
US 25/421
Int. US 25/US 421 S. of Richmond
KY 876 Richmond.
US 25/421
KY 418 (via KY 4)
Nandino Blvd., Lexington.
US 25E
Virginia State Line
I-75 Exit 29 N. of Corbin.
US 27
Tennessee State Line (via KY 4 Lexington)
Ohio State Line.
US 31W
Tennessee State Line
KY 255 Park City.
US 31W
Byp US 31W N. of Elizabethtown
I-264 Exit 8 Louisville.
US 31W Byp
Western Kentucky Parkway Exit 136
US 31W N. of Elizabethtown.
US 41
Pennyrile Parkway Henderson
Indiana State Line.
US 41
Tennessee State Line
Pennyrile Parkway near SCL Hopkinsville.
US 45
Jackson Purchase Parkway N. of Mayfield
US 60 Paducah.
US 60
US 45 Paducah
Int. US 60/62 Paducah.
US 60
US 60 Byp W. of Owensboro
KY 69 Hawesville.
US 60
KY 144 Garrett
US 31W S. of Muldraugh.
US 60
Int. US 421/KY 676 Frankfort (via KY 4 Lexington)
I-75 Exit 110 Lexington.
US 60
KY 180 Cannonsburg
US 23 Ashland.
US 60 Byp
US 60 W. of Owensboro
US 60 E. of Owensboro.
US 62
I-24 Exit 7 Paducah (via US 60 Paducah)
US 68.
US 62/68
Washington
Ohio State Line.
US 68
US 62
I-24 Exit 16.
US 68
I-24 Exit 65 E. of Cadiz (via US 41 Hopkinsville)
Green River Parkway Exit 5 Bowling Green.
US 68
US 27 Paris (via Paris Byp)
Int. US 62/68 Washington.
US 119
KY 15 E. of Whitesburg
US 23 near Jenkins.
US 119
US 25E S. of Pineville
US 421 Harlan.
US 119
US 23 N. of Pikeville
KY 1441.
US 127
KY 22 Owenton
KY 35 Bromley.
US 127
US 127 Byp N. of Danville (via US 68 Harrosdburg)
US 60 Frankfort (via Lawrenceburg Byp.).
US 127 Byp
US 127 S. of Danville
US 127 N. of Danville.
US 127 Byp
US 127 S. of Lawrenceburg
US 127 N. of Lawrenceburg.
US 150
US 62 Bardstown (via US 68 Perryville, the Danville Byp, and the Stanford Byp)
US 27 N. of Stanford.
US 150 Byp
US 127 S. of Danville
US 150 E. of Danville.
US 150 Byp
US 150 N. of Stanford
US 27 N. of Stanford.
US 231
US 60 Byp Owensboro
Indiana State Line.
US 421
0.1 mile S. of Harlan Appalachian Regional Hospital
US 119.
US 421
Int. US 60/460 Frankfort
US 127 Wilkinson Blvd./Owenton Rd. Interchange Frankfort.
US 431
US 60 Byp Owensboro
US 60 (4th St.) Owensboro.
US 460
I-64 Exit 110 N. of Mt. Sterling
KY 686 Mt. Sterling.
US 460
E. end Mountain Pkwy. Extension
US 23 W. of Paintsville.
US 641
Tennessee State Line
KY 348 Benton.
KY 4
US 27 S. Lexington
Entire Circle of Lexington.
KY 11
KY 3170 Lewisburg
US 62/68 Maysville.
KY 15
US 119 Whitesburg (via KY 7 Isom)
KY 15 Spur/KY 191 Campton.
KY 15 Spur
KY 15/191 Campton
Mountain Parkway Exit 43.
KY 21
I-75 Exit 76 W. of Berea
US 25 Berea.
KY 35
US 127 Bromley
I-71 Exit 57.
KY 55
Cumberland Parkway Exit 49 Columbia
US 150 Springfield.
KY 61
Peytonsburg
KY 90 Burkesville
KY 69
US 60 Hawesville
Indiana State Line.
KY 70/90
I-65 Exit 53
US 31E Glasgow.
KY 79
KY 1051 Brandenburg
Indiana State Line.
KY 80
KY 80 Byp. E. of Somerset
US 25 N. of London.
KY 80
KY 15 N. of Hazard
US 23 Watergap.
KY 80/US 421
S. ramps Daniel Boone Parkway Exit 20
2nd Street Manchester.
KY 80 Byp
US 27 Somerset
KY 80 E. of Somerset.
KY 90
KY 61 Burkesville
US 27 Burnside.
KY 114
US 460 E. of Salyersville
US 23/460 S. of Prestonburg.
KY 118
Int. US 421/KY 80 Hyden
Daniel Boone Parkway Exit 44.
KY 144
KY 448
US 60 Garrett.
KY 151
US 127 N. of Lawrenceburg
I-64 Exit 48.
KY 180
I-64 Exit 185
Int. US 60/KY 180 Cannonsburg.
KY 192
I-75 Exit 38
Daniel Boone Parkway E. of London.
KY 259
Western Kentucky Parkway Exit 107
US 62 Leitchfield.
KY 418
US 25/421 Lexington
I-75 Exit 104.
KY 446
US 31W Bowling Green
I-65 Exit 28.
KY 448
KY 144
KY 1051 Brandenburg.
KY 555
US 150 Springfield
Bluegrass Parkway Exit 42.
KY 676
US 127 Frankfort
US 60/421 Frankfort.
KY 686
US 460 Mt. Sterling
KY 11 S. of Mt. Sterling.
KY 876
I-75 Exit 87 Richmond
KY 52.
KY 922
KY 4 Lexington
I-64/75 Exit 115.
KY 1051
KY 448 S. of Brandenburg
KY 79.
KY 1682
US 68 W. of Hopkinsville
Pennyrile Parkway Exit 12 NCL Hopkinsville.
KY 1958
KY 627 S. of Winchester
I-64 Exit 94 Winchester.
Audubon Parkway
Pennyrile Parkway Exit 77 Henderson
US 60 Byp Owensboro.
Blue Grass Parkway
I-65 Exit 93 E. of Elizabethtown
US 60 E. of Versailles.
Cumberland Parkway
I-65 Exit 43 N. of Hays
US 27 Somerset.
Daniel Boone Parkway
US 25 N. of London
KY 15 N. of Hazard.
Green River Parkway
I-65 Exit 20 S.E. of Bowling Green
US 60 Byp Owensboro.
Jackson Purchase Parkway
Tennessee State Line
I-24 Exit 25 E. of Calvert City.
Mountain Parkway and Mountain Parkway Extension
I-64 Exit 98 E. of Winchester
US 460 Salyersville.
Pennyrile Parkway
US 41 Alt. Hopkinsville
US 41 Henderson.
Western Kentucky Parkway
I-24 Exit 42 S. of Eddyville
I-65 Exit 91 S. of Elizabethtown.
Note:
US 23 crosses the Ohio River between South Portsmouth, KY and Portsmouth, OH via the U.S. Grant Bridge. Although the state line is near the Ohio shoreline, putting most of the bridge in Kentucky, the terminal point for US 23 is listed as the south end of the bridge because the bridge is maintained by the Ohio DOT.
Louisiana
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Maine
US 1
I-95 Brunswick
Old US 1 (Vicinity of Congress St.) Bath.
Scarboro Connector
I-295 South Portland
US 1 Scarborough.
South Portland Spur
I-95 South Portland
US 1 South Portland.
Maryland
US 13
VA State Line
DE State Line.
US 15
US 40/340 Frederick
MD 26 Frederick.
US 40
US 15/340 Frederick
I-70/270 Frederick.
US 48
WV State Line
I-70 Hancock.
US 50
MD 201/Kenilworth Ave. Cheverly
US 13 Salisbury.
US 301
VA State Line
DE State Line.
US 340
MD 67 Weverton
US 15/40 Frederick.
MD 3
US 50/301 Bowie
I-695/MD 695 Glen Burnie.
MD 4
I-95 Forestville
US 301 Upper Marlboro.
MD 10
MD 648 Glen Burnie
MD 695 Glen Burnie.
MD 100
MD 3
MD 607 Jacobsville.
MD 201 (Kenilw. Ave.)
D.C. Line
US 50 Cheverly.
MD 295
I-695 Linthicum
I-95 Baltimore.
MD 695
I-695/MD 3 Glen Burnie
I-95/695 Kenwood.
MD 702
Old Eastern Avenue
MD 695 Essex.
Note:
I-895 Baltimore—Widths over 96 inches and tandem trailers may be prohibited on the Harbor Tunnel Thruway because of construction.
Massachusetts
US 3
I-95 Burlington
NH State Line.
MA 2
I-190 Leominister
I-495 Littleton.
MA 24
I-195 Fall River
I-93 Randolph.
MA 140
I-195 New Bedford
MA 24 Taunton.
Note:
I-93 Boston—Restrictions may be applied, when necessary, to portions of I-93 affected by reconstruction of the Central Artery (I-93) and construction of the Third Harbor Tunnel (I-90).
Michigan
I-75 Conn
US 24BR Pontiac
I-75.
US 2
WI State Line Ironwood
WI State Line S. of Crystal Falls.
US 2
WI State Line Iron Mountain
I-75 St. Ignace.
US 8
US 2 Norway
WI State Line.
US 10
Ludington
I-75 Bay City.
US 12
IN State Line
I-94 W. Jct. Ypsilanti.
US 23
OH State Line
I-75 Mackinaw City.
US 24
OH State Line
MI 15 Waterford.
US 24BR
US 24 S. of Pontiac
MI 1 Pontiac.
US 27
IN State Line
I-75 S. of Grayling.
US 31
IN State Line
I-75 Mackinaw City.
US 33
IN State Line
US 12 Niles.
US 41
WI State Line
Houghton.
US 45
WI State Line
MI 26 Rockland.
US 127
OH State Line
I-69/US 27 N. of Lansing.
US 131
IN State Line
US 31 Petoskey.
US 141
WI State Line S. of Crystal Falls
US 41/MI 28.
US 223
US 23
US 12/127 Somerset.
MI 10
I-375 Detroit
Orchard Lake Road.
MI 13
I-69 Lennon
I-75 Saginaw (via MI 81).
MI 13
I-75 Kawkawlin (via I-75 Conn.)
US 23 Standish.
MI 14
I-94 Ann Arbor
I-96/275 Plymouth.
MI 15
US 24 Clarkston
MI 25 Bay City.
MI 18
US 10
MI 61 Gladwin.
MI 20
US 31 New Era
MI 37 White Cloud.
MI 20
US 27 Mt. Pleasant
US 10 Midland.
MI 21
I-96 near Grand Rapids
I-69 Flint.
MI 24
I-75 Auburn Hills (via I-75 Conn.)
I-69 Lapeer.
MI 24
MI 46
MI 81 Caro.
MI 26
US 45 Rockland
MI 38.
MI 27
I-75
US 23 Cheboygan.
MI 28
US 2 Wakefield
I-75.
MI 32
Hillman
Alpena.
MI 33
Mio
Fairview.
MI 35
US 2/41 Escanaba
US 2/41 Gladstone.
MI 36
US 127 Mason
Dansville.
MI 37
MI 55
US 31/MI 72 Traverse City.
MI 37
I-96 Grand Rapids
MI 46 Kent City.
MI 38
US 45 Ontonagon
US 41 Baraga.
MI 39
I-75 Lincoln Park
MI 10 Southfield.
MI 40
MI 89 Allegan
US 31BR/I-196BL Holland.
MI 43
MI 37 Hastings
US 127 Lansing.
MI 46
US 131 Howard City
MI 25 Port Sanilac.
MI 47
I-675 Saginaw (via MI 58)
US 10.
MI 50
MI 43/66 Woodbury
MI 99 Eaton Rapids.
MI 50
US 127 S. Jct
I-75 Monroe.
MI 51
US 12 Niles
I-94.
MI 52
OH State Line
US 12 Clinton.
MI 52
I-96 Webberville
MI 46 W. of Saginaw.
MI 53
MI 3 Detroit
MI 25 Port Austin.
MI 55
US 31 Manistee
I-75.
MI 55
MI 65
US 23 Tawas City.
MI 57
US 131 N. of Rockford
US 27.
MI 57
MI 52 Chesaning
I-75 Clio.
MI 59
US 24 BR Pontiac
I-94.
MI 60
MI 62 Cassopolis
I-69/US 27.
MI 61
MI 115
US 27 Harrison.
MI 61
MI 18 Gladwin
US 23 Standish.
MI 63
US 31 Scottdale
I-196.
MI 65
US 23 Omer
MI 55.
MI 65
MI 72 Curran
MI 32.
MI 65
Posen
US 23 N. of Posen.
MI 66
IN State Line
US 12 Sturgis.
MI 66
Battle Creek
MI 78.
MI 66
MI 43/50 Woodbury
MI 46 Edmore.
MI 67
US 41 Trenary
MI 94 Chatham.
MI 68
US 31/131 Petoskey
US 23 Rogers City.
MI 69
US 2/141 Crystal Falls
MI 95 Sagola.
MI 72
US 31/MI 37 Traverse City
US 23 Harrisville.
MI 77
US 2
MI 28 Seney.
MI 78
MI 66
I-69 Olivet.
MI 81
MI 24 Caro
MI 53.
MI 82
MI 37 S. Jct. Newago
US 131.
MI 83
Frankenmuth
I-75.
MI 84
I-75
MI 25 Bay City.
MI 89
MI 40 Allegan
US 131.
MI 94
US 41
MI 28 Munising.
MI 95
US 2 Iron Mountain
US 41/MI 28.
MI 104
US 31 Grand Haven
I-96.
MI 115
US 27
MI 22 Frankfort.
MI 117
US 2 Engadine
MI 28.
MI 123
I-75 N. of St. Ignace
MI 28.
MI 142
MI 25 Bay Port
MI 53.
MI 205
IN State Line
US 12 W. of Union.
Minnesota
US 2
ND State Line E. Grand Forks
I-35 Duluth.
US 10
CH 11 E. of Moorhead
I-694 Arden Hills.
US 12
US 59 Holloway
I-94 Minneapolis.
US 14
US 75 Lake Benton
US 52 Rochester.
US 52
I-90 S. of Rochester
MN 110 Inver Grove Hts.
US 53
I-35/535 Duluth
US 169 S. Int. Virginia.
US 59
I-90 Worthington
MN 30 S. Int. Slayton.
US 59
MN 7 Appleton
US 12 Holloway.
US 59
I-94 N. Int. Fergus Falls
MN 175 Lake Bronson.
US 61
WI State Line
MN 60 Wabasha.
US 61
MN 55 Hastings
I-94 St. Paul.
US 61
I-35 Duluth
CH 2 Two Harbors.
US 63
I-90 Rochester
US 52 Rochester.
US 63
MN 58 Red Wing
WI State Line.
US 71
IA State Line
MN 34 Park Rapids.
US 75
I-90
US 2 Crookston.
US 75
MN 175 Hallock
Canadian Border.
US 169
I-90 Blue Earth
US 212 Chanhassen.
US 169
I-94 Brooklyn Park
MN 23 Milaca.
US 169
US 2 Grand Rapids
US 53 S. Int. Virginia.
US 212
SD State Line
MN 62 Edina.
US 218
I-90 Austin
US 14 Owatonna.
MN 1
ND State Line
US 59/MN 32 Thief River Falls.
MN 3
MN 110 Inver Grove Hts
I-94 St. Paul.
MN 5
MN 22 Gaylord
US 212.
MN 7
US 75 near Odessa
MN 100 St. Louis Park.
MN 9
US 12 Benson
US 59 Morris.
MN 11
MN 32 Greenbush
MN 72 Baudette.
MN 13
I-90
MN 14 Waseca.
MN 15
I-90 Fairmont
MN 60.
MN 15
US 14 New Ulm
MN 19 Winthrop.
MN 19
US 59 Marshall
MN 22 Gaylord.
MN 22
MN 109 Wells
US 14/MN 60 Mankato.
MN 22
US 212 Glencoe
US 12 Litchfield.
MN 23
US 75 Pipestone
I-35 near Hinckley.
MN 24
I-94 Clearwater
US 10 Clear Lake.
MN 25
I-94 Monticello
US 10 Big Lake.
MN 27
MN 29 Alexandria
MN 127 Osakis.
MN 27
US 71 N. Int. Long Prairie
US 10 Little Falls.
MN 28
SD State Line Browns Valley
I-94/US 71 Sauk Centre.
MN 29
I-94 Alexandria
MN 27 Alexandria.
MN 30
US 75 Pipestone
US 59 S. Int. Slayton.
MN 32
US 59/MN 1 Thief River Falls
MN 11 Greenbush.
MN 33
I-35 Cloguet
US 53 Independence.
MN 34
US 71 Park Rapids
MN 371 Walker.
MN 36
I-35W Roseville
MN 95 Oak Park Hts.
MN 43
I-90 Wilson
US 61 Winona.
MN 55
MN 28 Glenwood
7th St. N., W. Int. Minneapolis.
MN 55
I-94 E. Int. Minneapolis
MN 3 Inver Grove Hts.
MN 60
IA State Line Bigelow
US 14/169 Mankato.
MN 62
US 212 Edina
MN 100 Edina.
MN 65
I-694 Fridley
MN 23 Mora.
MN 68
US 75 Canby
MN 19 Marshall.
MN 101
I-94 Rogers
US 10 Elk River.
MN 109
I-90 Alden
MN 22 Wells.
MN 175
US 75 Hallock
US 59.
MN 210
ND State Line Breckenridge
US 59 W. Int. Fergus Falls.
MN 210
US 10 Motley
I-35 Carlton.
MN 371
US 10 Little Falls
US 2 Cass Lake.
NOTE:
I-35E St. Paul—The parkway segment of I-35E from 7th Street to I-94 is not available to trucks because of reduced design standards.
Mississippi
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Missouri
US 24
I-435 Kansas City
US 65 Waverly.
US 24
US 36 E. Jct. W. of Hannibal
IL State Line.
US 36
KS State Line St. Joseph
IL State Line Hannibal.
US 40
I-70 Wentzville
I-270 W. of St. Louis.
US 50
I-470 Exit 7 Kansas City
I-44 Exit 247 Union.
US 54
US 54BR Lake Ozark
IL State Line.
US 59
KS State Line
I-229 St. Joseph.
US 60
OK State Line
US 71 Neosho.
US 60
MO 37 Monett
US 63 Cabool.
US 60
2 Mi. E. of E. Jct. MO 21 Ellsinore
I-55/57 Sikeston.
US 61
I-70 Wentzville
IA State Line.
US 63
AR State Line Thayer
IA State Line.
US 65
AR State Line Ridgedale
IA State Line.
US 67
AR State Line
I-55 Exit 174 Crystal City.
US 67
MO 367 N. of St. Louis
IL State Line.
US 71
AR State Line
I-435/470 Kansas City.
US 71
I-29 Exit 53 N. of St. Joseph
US 136 Maryville.
US 71 Alt
I-44 E. of Joplin
US 71 Carthage.
US 136
NE State Line
I-29 Exit 110 Rock Port.
US 166
KS State Line
I-44 SW. of Joplin.
US 169
I-29 Kansas City
MO 152 Kansas City.
US 412
AR State Line
I-55 Exit 19 Hayti.
MO 5
AR State Line
US 60 Mansfield.
MO 7
US 71 Harrisonville
MO 13 Clinton.
MO 13
I-44 Springfield
US 24 Lexington.
MO 25
US 412 near Kennett
US 60 Dexter.
MO 37
MO 76 Cassville
US 60 Monett.
MO 47
US 50 Union
MO 100 Washington.
MO 84
AR State Line
US 412 near Kennett.
MO 100
MO 47 Washington
I-44 SE. of Washington.
MO 171
KS State Line/KS 57
US 71 Webb City.
MO 367
I-270 N. of St. Louis
US 67 N. of St. Louis.
Montana
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Nebraska
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Nevada
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
New Hampshire
US 3
MA State Line
NH 101A Nashua.
US 4/Spaulding Tpk
I-95 Portsmouth
Exit 6 E. of Durham.
New Jersey
US 130
US 322 Bridgeport
I-295 Logan Township.
US 130
I-295/NJ 44 West Deptford
I-295 West Deptford.
US 322
PA State Line
US 130 Bridgeport.
NJ 42
Atlantic City Expwy. Turnersville
I-295 Bellmawr.
NJ 81
I-95 Elizabeth
US 1/9 Newark Intl. Airport.
NJ 440
I-287/I-95 Edison
NY State Line Outerbridge Crossing.
Note:
I-95—The following two sections of the New Jersey Turnpike are available to STAA-dimensioned vehicles. They were added to the Interstate System on March 3, 1983, but are not signed as Interstate.
PA Tpk. Connector
PA State Line
Exit 6 Mansfield.
NJ Tpk.
Exit 6 Mansfield
Exit 10 Edison.
New Mexico
US 56
I-25 Springer
OK State Line.
US 60
AZ State Line
I-25 Socorro.
US 62
US 285 Carlsbad
Tx State Line.
US 64
AZ State Line
NM 516 Farmington.
US 70
AZ State Line
I-10 Lordsburg.
US 70
I-10 Las Cruces
U.S. 54 Tularosa.
US 70
US 285 Roswell
U.S. 84 Clovis.
NM 80
AZ State Line
I-10 Road Forks.
US 84
Tx State Line Clovis
CO State Line.
US 87
US 56 Clayton
Tx State Line.
US 160
Az State Line (Four Corners)
CO State Line.
US 285
Tx State Line s. of Carlsbad
CO State Line.
US 491
1-40 Gallup
CO State Line.
NM 516
U.S. 64 Farmington
U.S. 550 Aztec.
US 550
NM 516 Aztec
CO State Line.
New York
US 15
Presho Int
NY 17 Corning.
US 20
NY 75 Mt. Vernon
Howard Rd. Mt. Vernon.
US 219
NY 39 Springville
I-90 S. of Exit 55.
NY 5
NY 174 Camillus
NY 695 Fairmont.
NY 5
ECL Schenectady
I-87 Colonie.
NY 5
NY 179 Woodlawn Beach
NY 75 Mt. Vernon.
NY 7
Schenectady/Albany Co. Line
I-87 Colonie.
NY 8
CR 9/Main St. Sauquoit
I-790 Utica.
NY 12
I-790 Utica
Putnam Road Trenton.
NY 17
Exit 24 Allegany
I-87 Exit 16 Harriman.
NY 17
NJ State Line
I-87 Exit 15 Suffern.
NY 33
Michigan Ave. Buffalo
Greater Buffalo Intl. Airport.
NY 49
NY 365 Rome
NY 291 near Oriskany.
NY 104
Maplewood Dr. Rochester
Monroe/Wayne Co. Line.
NY 179
NY 5 Woodlawn Beach
I-90 Exit 56 Windom.
NY 198
I-190 Exit N11
NY 33 Buffalo.
NY 254
I-87 Glens Falls
0.3 Miles E. of US 9.
NY 365
I-90 Exit 33
NY 49 Rome.
NY 390
I-390/490 Rochester
NY 18 North Greece.
NY 400
I-90 Exit 54
NY 16 South Wales.
NY 481
I-81 North Syracuse
NY 3 Fulton.
NY 590
I-490/590 Rochester
NY 104 Irondequoit.
NY 690
I-90/690 Lakeland
NY 370 Baldwinsville.
NY 695
NY 5 Fairmont
I-690 Solvay.
Berkshire Conn. (NY 912M)
I-87 Exit 21A S. of Albany
I-90 Exit B1.
Inner Loop (NY 940T)
I-490 W. Int. Rochester
I-490 E. Int. Rochester.
Walden Avenue (NY 952Q)
I-90 Exit 52
NY 277 Cheektowaga.
Sheridan Boulevard (NY 895)
I-278 Bruckner Expressway
I-95 Cross Bronx Expressway.
North Carolina
I-40 Conn
US 19/23/74 Clyde
I-40 W. of Clyde.
I-95 BR
I-95 S. of Fayetteville
I-95 N. of Fayetteville.
US 1
US 74 Rockingham
I-85 near Henderson.
US 15
US 401 Laurinburg
US 1 Aberdeen.
US 15
US 1 Northview
US 64 Pittsboro.
US 17
SC State Line
US 74/76 W. of Wilmington.
US 17
SR 1409 E. of Wilmington
VA State Line.
US 19/US 23
I-240 Asheville
N. Int. Mars Hill.
US 23
US 441 Franklin
US 74 Dillsboro.
US 25
SC State Line
I-26 East Flat Rock.
US 25/US 70
US 19/23 Weaverville
US 25/70 Bypass Marshall.
US 29
US 52 Lexington
VA State Line.
US 52
NC 24/27 Albemarle
VA State Line.
US 64
I-40 Morganton
US 321 Lenoir.
US 64
US 29 Lexington
US 15 Pittsboro.
US 64
US 1/70/401 Raleigh
US 17 Williamston.
US 70
I-77 Statesville
I-85 Salisbury (via US 601).
US 70
I-85 Durham
US 70A W. of Smithfield.
US 70A
US 70 W. of Smithfield
US 70 Princeton.
US 70
US 70A Princeton
Beaufort.
US 74
TN State Line
I-40 Conn. Clyde.
US 74
US 221 Rutherfordton
I-85 Kings Mountain.
US 74 (See Note Below)
I-277 Charlotte
US 17 W. Int. Wilmington.
US 74
I-26 EXIT 36
US 74 ALT: near Forest City.
US 76
US 17/74 W. Int. Wilmington
SR 1409 E. of Wilmington.
US 158
I-40 Winston-Salem
US 29 Reidsville.
US 158
I-85 Henderson
US 258 Murfreesboro.
US 220
US 74 Rockingham
VA State Line.
US 221
US 74 Rutherfordton
I-40 Glenwood.
US 258
NC 24 N. Int. Richlands
US 64 Tarboro.
US 258
US 158 Murfreesboro
VA State Line.
US 264
US 64 Zebulon
US 17 Washington.
US 301
I-95 Kenly
NC 4 Battleboro.
US 321
SC State Line
I-85 Gastonia.
US 321
I-40 Hickory
NC 18/90 Lenoir.
US 401
SC State Line
I-40 Raleigh.
US 421
Carolina Beach
I-95 Dunn.
US 421
US 1 Sanford
US 64 Siler City.
US 421
I-40 Winston-Salem
Wilkesboro.
US 521
SC State Line
I-77 Charlotte.
US 601
SC State Line
US 74 Monroe.
NC 4
I-95 Gold Rock
US 301 Battleboro.
NC 11
US 70 Kinston
US 264 Greenville.
NC 24
US 74 Charlotte
US 52 Albemarle.
NC 24
NC 87 Spout Springs
I-95 Fayetteville.
NC 24
US 421 Clinton
US 70 Mansfield.
NC 49
I-85 Charlotte
US 64 Asheboro.
NC 87
NC 24/27 Spout Springs
US 1 Sanford.
SR 1409
US 76 E. of Wilmington
US 17.
SR 1728
I-40 W. of Raleigh
US 1/Wade Ave. Raleigh.
SR 1959-SR 2028
US 70 Bethesda
I-40 S. of Durham.
Note:
US 74 Charlotte—STAA-dimensioned vehicles are subject to State restrictions on US 74 in Charlotte because of narrow lane widths.
North Dakota
US 2
MT State Line
MN State Line Grand Forks.
US 10
I-94 W. Fargo
MN State Line.
US 12
MT State Line Marmarth
SD State Line.
US 52
I-94 Jamestown
Canadian Border.
US 81
I-29 Manvel
I-29 Joliette.
US 83
SD State Line
Canadian Border Westhope.
US 85
SD State Line
Canadian Border Fortuna.
US 281
SD State Line Ellendale
Canadian Border.
ND 1
ND 11 Ludden
ND 13 S. Jct.
ND 5
MT State Line
US 85 Fortuna.
ND 11
US 281 Ellendale
ND 1 Ludden.
ND 13
ND 1 S. Jct
MN State Line.
ND 32
West Junction of ND Highway 13
1-94.
ND 68
MT State Line
US 85 Alexander.
ND 200
MT State Line
US 85 Alexander.
Ohio
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Oklahoma
No additional routes have been federally designated; STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all Federal-aid Primary highways under State law.
Oregon
US 20
OR 34 W. Int. Philomath
ECL Sweet Home.
US 20
OR 126 Sisters
ID State Line Nyssa.
US 26
US 101 Cannon Beach Junction
OR 126 Prineville.
US 30
US 101 Astoria
I-405 Portland.
US 30 BR
OR 201 Ontario
ID State Line.
US 95
NV State Line
ID State Line.
US 95 Spur
OR 201
ID State Line Weiser, ID.
US 97
CA State Line
WA State Line.
US 101
SCL Port Orford
OR 126 Florence.
US 101
US 20 Newport
OR 18 Otis.
US 101
OR 6 Tillamook
WA State Line.
US 197
I-84 The Dalles
WA State Line.
US 199
CA State Line
OR 99 Grants Pass.
US 395
CA State Line
US 26 John Day.
US 395
I-84 Stanfield
US 730 near Umatilla.
US 730
I-84 Boardman
WA State Line.
OR 6
US 101 Tillamook
US 26 Near Banks.
OR 8
OR 47 Forest Grove
OR 217 Beaverton.
OR 11
I-84 Pendelton
WA State Line.
OR 18
US 101 Otis
OR 99W Dayton.
OR 19
OR 206 Condon
I-84 Arlington.
OR 22
OR 18 near Willamina
US 20 Santiam Junction.
OR 31
US 97 La Pine
US 395 Valley Falls.
OR 34
OR 99W Corvallis
US 20 Lebanon.
OR 35
US 26 Government Camp
I-84 Hood River.
OR 38
US 101 Reedsport
I-5 Anlauf.
OR 39
CA State Line
OR 140 E. of Klamath Falls.
OR 42
US 101 Coos Bay
OR 42S Coquille.
OR 47
OR 8 Forest Grove
US 26 N. of Banks.
OR 58
I-5 Eugene
US 97 near Chemult.
OR 62
Medford
OR 140 White City.
OR 78
Burns
US 95 Burns Junction.
OR 99
I-5 E. of Rogue River
I-5 Grants Pass.
OR 99
I-5 Eugene
OR 99W/E Junction City.
OR 99E
OR 99/99W Junction City
I-5 Albany.
OR 99E
I-5 Salem
I-5 Portland.
OR 99W
OR 99/99E Junction City
I-5 Portland.
OR 126
US 101 Florence
US 26 Prineville.
OR 138
OR 38 Elkton
I-5 near Sutherlin.
OR 140
OR 62 White City
OR 39 E. of Klamath Falls.
OR 201
US 26 Cairo
US 95 Spur near Weiser, ID.
OR 207
US 730 Cold Springs Jct
OR 74 S. Int. Heppner.
OR 212
OR 224 E. Int. near Rock Ck. Corner
US 26 near Boring.
OR 214
I-5 Woodburn
OR 213 Silverton.
OR 217
US 26 Beaverton
I-5 Tigard.
OR 223
Kings Valley Hwy. in Dallas
OR 99W Rickreall.
OR 224
OR 99E Milwaukie
OR 212 E. Int. near Rock Ck. Corner
Pennsylvania
US 1
US 13 Morrisville
NJ State Line.
US 6
Conneaut Lake Borough
End of 4-lane Bypass NE. of Meadville.
US 11
Turnpike Int. 16
US 15 Harrisburg.
US 13
US 1 Morrisville
Turnpike Int. 29.
US 15
Turnpike Int. 17
US 11 Harrisburg Expwy.
US 15
PA 642 West Milton
White Deer Int.
US 15
I-180/US 220 Williamsport
End of lim. acc. Williamsport.
US 20
PA 89 North East
I-90 Int. 12.
US 22
WV State Line
I-79 Int. 15 Carnegie.
US 22
I-78 Fogelsville
NJ State Line.
US 30
End of lim. acc. W. of Greensburg
End of lim. acc. E. of Greensburg.
US 30
PA 462 W. of York
PA 462 E. of Lancaster.
US 119
End of lim. acc. S. of Uniontown
US 30 Greensburg.
US 202
DE State Line
I-76 Int. 26 King of Prussia.
US 209
PA 33 Snydersville
I-80 Stroudsburg.
US 219
PA 601 N. of Somerset
US 422 W. Int.
US 219
South Bradford Int
NY State Line.
US 220
Turnpike Int. 11
King.
US 220
End of lim. acc. Linden
I-180/US 15 Williamsport.
US 220
PA 199 S. of Athens
NY State Line NY 17.
US 222
US 422 N. Int. Reading
PA 61 S. of Tuckerton.
US 222
US 30 Lancaster
Turnpike Int. 21.
US 322
NJ State Line (Comm. Barry Br.)
I-95 Chester.
US 322
I-83/283
US 422/PA 39 Hershey.
US 422
US 322/PA 39 Hershey
Hockersville Rd. Hershey.
US 422
US 422 Bus. Reiffton
US 422 Bus. Wyomissing.
PA 3
US 202
Garrett Rd. Upper Darby.
PA 9
Turnpike Int. 25
I-81 Int. 58 N. of Scranton.
PA 28
PA 8
Creighton.
PA 33
US 22 Easton
I-80.
PA 42
I-80 Int. 34
US 11 Bloomsburg.
PA 51
US 119 Uniontown
Monongahela Riv. Elizabeth.
PA 54
I-80 Int. 33
US 11 Danville.
PA 60
PA 51 Beaver Falls
US 22.
PA 60-US 422
I-80 Int. 1
1 Mile E. of PA 65 New Castle.
PA 61
US 222 S. of Tuckerton
I-78 Int. 9.
PA 93
I-81 Int. 41
PA 924 Hazelton.
PA 114
US 11 Hogestown
I-81 Int. 18.
PA 132
I-95 Cornwells Heights
Turnpike Int. 28 (via US 1 Connection).
PA 283
I-283 Int. 2
US 30 Lancaster.
PA 924
I-81 Int. 40
PA 93 Hazelton.
Airport Access (SR 3032)
PA 283
Harrisburg International Airport.
Harrisburg Exp. (Sr 2022)
US 11/15
I-83 Int. 20.
Reading Outer Loop (SR 3055)
PA 183 Leinbachs
US 222.
Puerto Rico
PR 1
PR 2 Ponce
PR 52 Ponce.
PR 2
PR 22 San Juan
PR 1 Ponce.
PR 3
N. Ent. Roosevelt Roads Naval Sta.
PR 26 Carolina.
PR 18
PR 52 San Juan
PR 22 San Juan.
PR 22
PR 26 San Juan
PR 165 Toa Baja.
PR 26
PR 22 San Juan
PR 3 Carolina.
PR 30
PR 52 Caguas
PR 3 Humacao.
PR 52
PR 1 Ponce
PR 18 San Juan.
PR 165
PR 22 Toa Baja
PR 2 Toa Baja.
Note:
Routes added to the Interstate System under 23 U.S.C. 139(c) are included only to the extent designated above.
Rhode Island
RI 10
RI 195 Providence
I-95 Cranston.
RI 37
I-295 Cranston
I-95 near Lincoln Park.
RI 146
I-95 Providence
I-295 N. of Lime Rock.
RI 195
I-295 Johnston
RI 10 Providence.
South Carolina
US 15/401
NC State Line
US 52 Society Hill.
US 17
I-95 Pocotaligo
US 21 Gardens Corner.
US 17
I-26 Charleston
NC State Line.
US 21
US 17 Gardens Corner
SC 170 Beaufort.
US 25
NC State Line
US 78 North Augusta (via Greenwood Bypass).
US 52
US 15/401 Society Hill
End of 4-ln. div. N. of urban limits of Kingstree.
US 52
US 17 A1t. S. Int. Moncks Corner
I-26 Exit 208 N. Charleston connector.
US 76
US 52 Florence
SC 576 Marion.
US 76
SC 277 Columbia
I-126 Columbia.
US 78
GA State Line
I-95 St. George.
US 78
I-26 Exit 205 N. Charleston
US 52 N. Charleston.
US 123
Bibb St. Westminister
US 25 Greenville.
US 21/178 Bypass
US 601 Orangeburg
Orangeburg.
US276
I-385 Simpsonville
I-85 Greenville.
US 301
US 321 Ulmer
I-95 Santee.
US 321
I-26 S. of Columbia
I-95 Hardeeville.
US 378
SC 262 Columbia
US 501 Conway.
US 501
SC 576 Marion
US 17 Myrtle Beach.
US 601
NC State Line
SC 151 Pageland.
US 601
I-26 Jamison
US 21/178 Bypass Orangeburg.
SC 72
US 25 Byp. Greenwood
I-77 Exit 61 (via SC 72 Byp.-US 21 BR-US 21 Rock Hill).
SC 121
SC 72 Whitmire
US 25 Trenton.
SC 151
US 601 Pageland
US 52 Darlington.
SC 2 77
I-77 Columbia
US 76 Columbia.
SC 576
US 76 Marion
US 501 Marion.
South Dakota
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Tennessee
US 25E
I-81
VA State Line Cumberland Gap.
US 27
End of I-124 Chattanooga
US 127 Chattanooga.
US 27
TN 153 Chattanooga
KY State Line Winfield.
US 43
AL State Line St. Joseph
US 64 Lawrenceburg.
US 45
MS State Line
US 45 Bypass S. Int. Jackson.
US 45 Bypass-US 45W
US 45 S. Int. Jackson
US 51 Union City.
US 51
TN 300 Memphis
KY State Line Jackson Purchase Pkwy.
US 64
I-40 E. Int. Memphis
I-24 Monteagle.
US 70 Alt
US 79 Atwood
TN 22 Huntingdon.
US 70
TN 22 Huntingdon
TN 96 Dickson.
US 70
TN 155 Nashville
US 127 Crossville.
US 70S
TN 102 Smyrna
US 70/TN 111 Sparta.
US 72
AL State Line
I-24 Kimball.
US 74
I-75 Cleveland
NC State Line IsabelIa.
US 79
I-40 Memphis
KY State Line US 41 Guthrie.
US 127
US 27 Chattanooga
TN 27 W. Int.
US 127
TN 28 Dunlap
KY State Line Static.
US 231
AL State Line S. of Fayetteville
KY State Line N. of Westmoreland.
US 412
I-40 Jackson
US 51 Dyersburg.
US 641
I-40 near Natchez Trace State Park
KY State Line N. of Paris.
TN 96
US 70 Dickson
I-40 E. of Dickson.
TN 153
I-75 Chattanooga
US 27 Chattanooga.
TN 155
I-40 Nashville
I-65 N. of Nashville.
TN 300
I-40 Memphis
US 51 Memphis.
Texas
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Utah
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Vermont
US 4
NY State Line
ECL Rutland.
US 7
End of 4-lane divided hwy. Wallingford
US 4 N. Int. Rutland.
VT 9
I-91 Int. 3 N. of Brattleboro
NH State Line.
Virginia
US 11
I-81 Exit 195
0.16 Mi. N. of VA 645 Rockbridge Co.
US 11
VA 220 Alt. N. Int
2.15 Mi. S. of VA 220 Alt. N. Int. Cloverdale.
US 11
VA 100 Dublin
VA 643 S. of Dublin.
US 11
1.52 Mi. N. of VA 75
US 19 N. Int. Abington.
US 13
MD State Line
I-64 Exit 282 Norfolk.
US 17
US 29 Opal
VA 2/US 17 BR New Post.
US 17
VA 134 York County
I-64 Exit 258 Newport News.
US 17
BR/SCL Fredericksburg
US 17 New Post VA 2.
US 19
I-81 Exit 14 (via VA 140) Abington
US 460 N. Int./VA 720 Bluefield.
US 23
TN State Line
US 58 Alt. Big Stone Gap.
US 23
0.33 Mi. N. of US 23 BR Norton
KY State Line.
US 25E
TN State Line
KY State Line.
US 29
NC State Line
I-66 Exit 43 Gainesville.
US 33
N. Carlton Street Harrisonburg
US 340 Elkton.
US 33
I-295 Exit 49
0.96 Mi. W. of I-295 Hanover County.
US 50
VA 259 Gore
VA 37 Frederick County.
US 50
Apple Blossom Loop Road Winchester
I-81 Exit 313 Winchester.
US 58
VA 721 W. of Martinsville
US 220 BR N. Int. Martinsville.
US 58
S. Fairy Street Martinsville
WCL Emporia.
US 58
0.6 Mi. E. of ECL Emporia
VA 35 S. Int. Courtland.
US 58
US 58 BR E. of Courtland
US 13/I-264 Bowers Hill.
US 58 Alt
US 23 Norton
US 19 Hansonville.
US 58 Alt
0.4 Mi. W. of US 11
I-81 Exit 17 Abington.
US 58 BR
VA 35 Courtland
US 58 E. of Courtland.
US 58
W. Int. VA 337 Claremont St. Norfolk
US 460/St. Paul's Blvd. Norfolk.
US 60
0.03 Mi. West of VA 887 Chesterfield County
US 522 Powhatan.
US 220
NC State Line
I-581 Roanoke.
US 220
I-81 Exit 150
SCL Fincastle.
US 220 BR
US 220 S. Int.
0.16 Mi. N. of VA 825 S. of Martinsville.
US 220 BR
US 58 N. Int. Martinsville
US 220 N. Int. Bassett Forks.
US 250
US 340 E. Int. Waynesboro
VA 254 Waynesboro.
US 250
I-81 Exit 222
VA 261 Statler Blvd. Staunton.
US 258
NC State Line
US 58 Franklin.
US 258
VA 10 Benns Church
VA 143 Jefferson Ave. Newport News.
US 301
VA 1250 S. of I-295
I-295 Exit 41 Hanover County.
US 301
US 301 BR N. Int. Bowling Green
MD State Line.
US 340/522
I-66 Exit 6 Front Royal
2.85 Mi. N. of I-66.
US 340
VA 7 Berryville
WV State Line.
US 360
US 58 South Boston
VA 150 Chesterfield County.
US 360
I-64 Exit 192 Richmond
VA 617 Village.
US 460
VA 67 W. Int. Raven
US 19 Claypool Hill.
US 460
VA 720 Bluefield
WV State Line at Bluefield.
US 460
WV State Line at Glen Lyn
I-81 Exit 118 Christiansburg.
US 460
I-581 Roanoke
0.08 Mi. E. of VA 1512 Lynchburg.
US 460
US 29 Lynchburg
1 Mi. W. of VA 24 Appomattox County.
US 460
0.64 Mi. E. of VA 707 Appomattox County
I-85 Exit 61 Petersburg.
US 460
I-95 Exit 50 Petersburg
US 58 Suffolk.
US 501
VA 360 S. Int. Halifax
US 58 South Boston.
US 522
0.6 Mi. S. of US 50
US 50 Frederick County.
US 522
VA 37 Frederick County
1.07 Mi. N. of VA 705 Cross Junction.
VA 3
US 1 Fredericksburg
VA 20 Wilderness.
VA 7
I-81 Exit 315 Winchester
0.68 Mi. W. of WCL Round Hill.
VA 10
US 58 Suffolk
VA 666 Smithfield.
VA 10
ECL Hopewell
0.37 Mi. W. of W. Int. VA 156 Hopewell.
VA 10
US 1 Chesterfield County
VA 827 W. of Hopewell.
VA 20
I-64 Exit 121
Carlton Rd. Charlottesville.
VA 30
I-95 Exit 98 Doswell
US 1.
VA 33
I-64 Exit 220
VA 30 E. Int. West Point.
VA 36
I-95 Exit 52 Petersburg
VA 156 Hopewell.
VA 37
I-81 Exit 310 S. of Winchester
I-81 Exit 317 (via US 11) N. of Winchester.
VA 42
VA 257 S. Int. Bridgewater
VA 290 Dayton.
VA 57
VA 753 Bassett
US 220 Bassett Forks.
VA 86
US 29 Danville
NC State Line.
VA 100
I-81 Exit 98
US 11 Dublin.
VA 105
US 60 Newport News
I-64 Exit 250.
VA 114
US 460 Christians- burg
0.09 Mi. E. of VA 750 Montgomery County.
VA 156
VA 10 W. Int. Hopewell
VA 36 Hopewell.
VA 199
US 60 Williamsburg
I-64 Exit 242.
VA 207
I-95 Exit 104
0.2 Mi. S. of VA 619 Milford.
VA 220 Alt
US 11 N. Int. N. of Cloverdale
I-81 Exit 150/US 220.
VA 277
I-81 Exit 307 Stephens City
1.6 MI. E. of I-81 Exit 307.
VA 419
I-81 Exit 141 Salem
Midland Ave. Salem.
VA 624
I-64 Exit 96
Old SCL Waynesboro.
Commonwealth Blvd. in Martins- ville
Market Street
N. Fairy Street.
Note 1:
I-66 Washington, DC, area—There is a 24-hour total truck ban on I-66 from I-495 Capital Beltway to the District of Columbia. (Excepted under 23 CFR 658.11(f)).
Note 2:
I-264 Norfolk—Truck widths are limited to 96 inches for the westbound tube of the Elizabeth River Downtown Tunnel from Norfolk to Portsmouth because of clearance deficiencies.
Washington
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
West Virginia
US 19
I-77 Bradley
I-79 Gassaway.
US 35
WV 34 Winfield
OH State Line.
US 48
I-79 Morgantown
MD State Line.
US 50
I-77 Parkersburg
I-79 Clarksburg.
US 460
VA State Line Bluefield
VA State Line Kelleysville.
WV 34
I-64 Putnam Co
US 35 Winfield.
Wisconsin
US 2
I-535/US 53 Superior
MI State Line Hurley.
US 2
MI State Line W. of Florence
MI State Line E. of Florence.
US 8
US 63 Turtle Lake
MI State Line Norway MI.
US 10
US 53 Osseo
I-43 Manitowoc.
US 12
I-94/CH “EE” W. of Eau Claire
US 53 Eau Claire.
US 12
I-90/94 Lake Delton
End of 4-lane S. of W. Baraboo.
US 12
WI 67 S. Jct. Elkhorn
IL State Line Genoa City.
US 14
US 51 N. of Janesville
I-90 Janesville.
US 14
WI 11/89 N. of Darien
I-43 Darien.
US 18
IA State Line Prairie Du Chien
I-90 Madison.
US 41
National Ave. Milwaukee
Garfield Ave. Milwaukee.
US 41
107th St. Milwaukee
MI State Line Marinette.
US 45
IL State Line Bristol
WI 28 Kewaskum.
US 45
WI 29 Wittenberg
MI State Line Land O'Lakes.
US 51
SCL Janesville
US 14 Janesville.
US 51
WI 78 N. of Portage
US 2 Hurley.
US 53
US 14/61 La Crosse
US 10 Osseo.
US 53
I-94 Eau Claire
I-535/US 2 Superior.
US 61
IA State Line Dubugue IA
MN State Line La Crosse (via WI 129 Lancaster Byp.).
US 63
MN State Line Red Wing MN
US 2 W. of Ashland.
US 141
US 41 Abrams
US 8 Pembine.
US 151
IA State Line Dubugue IA
US 18 E. of Dodgeville.
US 151
I-90/94 Madison
US 41 Fond Du Lac.
WI 11
IA State Line Dubuque IA
US 51 Janesville.
WI 11
I-90 Janesville
US 14/WI 89 N. of Darien.
WI 11
I-43 Elkhorn
WI 31 Racine.
WI 13
WI 21 Friendship
US 2 Ashland.
WI 16
WI 78 Portage
I-94 Waukesha.
WI 17
US 8 Rhinelander
US 45 Eagle River.
WI 20
I-94 Racine
WI 31 Racine.
WI 21
WI 27 Sparta
US 41 Oshkosh.
WI 23
WI 32 N. of Sheboygan Falls
Taylor Dr. Sheboygan.
WI 26
I-94 Johnson Creek
WI 16 Watertown.
WI 26
US 151 Waupun
US 41 SW. of Oshkosh.
WI 27
US 14/61 Westby
US 10 Fairchild.
WI 28
US 41 Theresa
US 45 Kewaskum.
WI 29
I-94 Elk Mound
US 53 Chippewa Falls.
WI 29
WI 124 S. of Chippewa Falls
US 41 Green Bay.
WI 30
US 151 Madison
I-90/94 Madison.
WI 31
WI 11 Racine
WI 20 Racine.
WI 32
WI 29 W. of Green Bay
Gillett.
WI 34
WI 13 Wisconsin Rapids
US 51 Knowlton.
WI 42
I-43 Manitowoc
WI 57 SW. of Sturgeon Bay.
WI 47
US 10 Appleton
WI 29 Bonduel.
WI 50
I-94 Kenosha
45th Ave. Kenosha.
WI 54
WI 13 Wisconsin Rapids
US 51 Plover.
WI 57
I-43 Green Bay
Sturgeon Bay.
WI 69
WI 11 Monroe
CH “PB” Paoli.
WI 73
US 51 Plainfield
WI 54 Wisconsin Rapids.
WI 78
I-90/94 S. of Portage
US 51 N. of portage.
WI 80
WI 21 Necedah
WI 13 Pittsville.
WI 119
I-94 Milwaukee
WI 38 Milwaukee.
WI 124
US 53 N. of Eau Claire
WI 29 S. of Chippewa Falls.
WI 139
US 8 Cavour, Forest Co
Long Lake.
WI 145
Broadway Milwaukee
US 41/45 Milwaukee.
WI 172
US 41 Ashwaubenon
CH “x” S. of Green Bay.
CH “PB”
WI 69 Paoli
US 18/151 E. of Verona.
Wyoming
No additional routes have been federally designated; under State law STAA-dimensioned commercial vehicles may legally operate on all highways which, prior to June 1, 1991, were designated as Federal-aid primary highways.
Note:
Information on additional highways on which STAA-dimensioned vehicles may legally operate may be obtained from the respective State highway agencies.
[55 FR 17953, Apr. 30, 1990; 55 FR 19145, May 8, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 30421, June 13, 1994; 59 FR 36053, July 15, 1994; 60 FR 15214, Mar. 22, 1995; 60 FR 16571, Mar. 31, 1995; 62 FR 30758, June 5, 1997; 63 FR 70653, Dec. 22, 1998; 63 FR 71748, Dec. 30, 1998; 72 FR 7748, Feb. 20, 2007; 83 FR 30335, June 28, 2018]
Pt. 658, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 658—Grandfathered Semitrailer Lengths
State
Feet and inches
Alabama
53-6
Alaska
48-0
Arizona
57-6
Arkansas
53-6
California
1
48-0
Colorado
57-4
Connecticut
48-0
Delaware
53-0
District of Columbia
48-0
Florida
48-0
Georgia
48-0
Hawaii
48-0
Idaho
48-0
Illinois
53-0
Indiana
2
48-6
Iowa
53-0
Kansas
57-6
Kentucky
53-0
Louisiana
59-6
Maine
48-0
Maryland
48-0
Massachusetts
48-0
Michigan
48-0
Minnesota
48-0
Mississippi
53-0
Missouri
53-0
Montana
53-0
Nebraska
53-0
Nevada
53-0
New Hampshire
48-0
New Jersey
48-0
New Mexico
57-6
New York
48-0
North Carolina
48-0
North Dakota
53-0
Ohio
53-0
Oklahoma
59-6
Oregon
53-0
Pennsylvania
53-0
Puerto Rico
48-0
Rhode Island
48-6
South Carolina
48-0
South Dakota
53-0
Tennessee
50-0
Texas
59-0
Utah
48-0
Vermont
48-0
Virginia
48-0
Washington
48-0
West Virginia
48-0
Wisconsin
3
48-0
Wyoming
57-4
1
Semitrailers up to 53 feet may also operate without a permit by conforming to a kingpin-to-rearmost axle distance of 38 feet. Semitrailers that are consistent with 23 CFR 658.13(g) may operate without a permit provided the distance from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle is 46 feet or less.
2
Semitrailers up to 53 feet in length may operate without a permit by conforming to a kingpin-to-rearmost axle distance of 40 feet 6 inches. Semitrailers that are consistent with 23 CFR 658.13(g) may operate without a permit provided the distance from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle is 46 feet or less.
3
Semitrailers up to 53 feet in length may operate without a permit by conforming to a kingpin-to-rear axle distance of 41 feet, measured to the center of the rear tandem assembly. Semitrailers that are consistent with 23 CFR 658.13(g) may operate without a permit provided the distance from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle is 46 feet or less.
[53 FR 2599, Jan. 29, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 1931, Jan. 18, 1989; 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 72 FR 7749, Feb. 20, 2007]
Pt. 658, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 658—Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
This appendix contains the weight and size provisions that were in effect on or before June 1, 1991 (July 6, 1991 for Alaska), for vehicles covered by 23 U.S.C. 127(d) (LCV's) and 49 U.S.C. app. 2311(j) (commercial motor vehicles (CMV's) with 2 or more cargo-carrying units). Weights and dimensions are “frozen” at the values shown here, which were in effect on June 1, 1991 (Alaska, July 6, 1991). All vehicles are listed by configuration type.

# Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System
In the State-by-State descriptions, CMV combinations which can also be LCV's are
identified with the letters “LCV” following the type of combination vehicle. The maximum allowable gross vehicle weight is given in this appendix (in thousands of pounds indicated by a “K”), as well as information summarizing the operational conditions, routes, and legal citations. The term “Interstate System” as used herein refers to the Dwight D. Eisenhower System of Interstate and Defense Highways.

# Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
Listed for each State by combination type is either:
1. The maximum cargo-carrying length (shown in feet); or
2. A notation that such vehicle is not allowed (indicated by a “NO”).
CMV's are categorized as follows:
1. A CMV combination consisting of a truck tractor and two trailing units.
2. A CMV combination consisting of a truck tractor and three trailing units.
3. CMV combinations with two or more cargo-carrying units not included in descriptions 1 or 2.
In the following table the left number is the maximum cargo-carrying length measured in feet from the front of the first cargo unit to the rear of the last cargo unit. This distance is not to include length exclusive devices which have been approved by the Secretary or by any State. Devices excluded from length determination shall only include items whose function is related to the safe and efficient operation of the semitrailer or trailer. No device excluded from length determination shall be designed or used for carrying cargo. The right number is the maximum gross weight in thousands of pounds that the type of vehicle can carry when operating as an LCV on the Interstate System. For every State where there is a length or weight number in the table that follows, additional information is provided.
Vehicle Combinations Subject to Pub. L. 102-240
State
1
Truck tractor and
2
trailing units
2
Truck tractor and
3
trailing units
3
Other
Alabama
NO
NO
NO
Alaska
95′
110′
83′
Arizona
95′ 129K
95′ 129K
(1)
Arkansas
NO
NO
NO
California
NO
NO
NO
Colorado
111′ 110K
115.5′ 110K
78′
Connecticut
NO
NO
NO
Delaware
NO
NO
NO
Dist. of Columbia
NO
NO
NO
Florida
106′ (2)
NO
NO
Georgia
NO
NO
NO
Hawaii
65′ (2)
NO
NO
Idaho
95′ 105.5K
95′ 105.5K
(1)
Illinois
NO
NO
NO
Indiana
106′ 127.4K
104.5′ 127.4K
58′
Iowa
100′ 129K
100′ 129K
78′
Kansas
109′ 120K
109′ 120K
NO
Kentucky
NO
NO
NO
Louisiana
NO
NO
NO
Maine
NO
NO
NO
Maryland
NO
NO
NO
Massachusetts
104′ 127.4K
NO
NO
Michigan
58′ 164K
No
63′
Minnesota
NO
NO
NO
Mississippi
65′ (2)
NO
NO
Missouri
110′ 120K(4)
109′ 120K
NO
Montana
93′ 137.8K
100′ 131.06K
(1)
Nebraska
95′ 95K
95′ (2)
68′
Nevada
95′ 129K
95′ 129K
98′
New Hampshire
NO
NO
NO
New Jersey
NO
NO
NO
New Mexico
86.4K(3)
NO
NO
New York
102′ 143K
NO
NO
North Carolina
NO
NO
NO
North Dakota
103′ 105.5K
100′ 105.5K
103′
Ohio
102′ 127.4K
95′ 115K
NO
Oklahoma
110′ 90K
95′ 90K
NO
Oregon
68′ 105.5K
96′ 105.5K
70′ 5′′
Pennsylvania
NO
NO
NO
Puerto Rico
NO
NO
NO
Rhode Island
NO
NO
NO
South Carolina
NO
NO
NO
South Dakota
100′ 129K
100′ 129K
(1)
Tennessee
NO
NO
NO
Texas
NO
NO
NO
Utah
95′ 129K
95′ 129K
(1)
Vermont
NO
NO
NO
Virginia
NO
NO
NO
Washington
68′ 105.5K
NO
68′
West Virginia
NO
NO
NO
Wisconsin
NO
NO
NO
Wyoming
81′ 117K
NO
(1)
(1)—State submission includes multiple vehicles in this category—see individual State listings.
(2)—No maximum weight is established as this vehicle combination is not considered an “LCV” per the ISTEA definition. Florida's combination is not allowed to operate on the Interstate System, and the combinations for Hawaii, Mississippi, and Nebraska are not allowed to exceed 80,000 pounds.
(3)—No maximum cargo-carrying length is established for this combination. Because State law limits each trailing unit to not more than 28.5 feet in length, this combination is allowed to operate on all NN routes under the authority of the STAA of 1982, regardless of actual cargo-carrying length. The maximum weight listed is New Mexico's maximum allowable gross weight on the Interstate System under the grandfather authority of 23 U.S.C. 127.
(4)—These dimensions do not apply to the same combinations. The 110-foot length is limited to vehicles entering from Oklahoma, also limited to 90K gross weight. The 120K gross weight is limited to vehicles entering from Kansas, also limited to a cargo carrying length of 109 feet.
The following abbreviation convention is used throughout the narrative State-by-State descriptions for the captions OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS, ROUTES, and LEGAL CITATIONS: two letter State abbreviation, dash, “TT” for truck tractor, and 2 or 3 for two or three trailing units. For example, the phrase “Arizona truck tractor and 2 trailing units”, would be noted as “AZ-TT2”; the phrase “Indiana truck tractor and
3 trailing units” would be noted as “IN-TT3”, etc.

# STATE: ALASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The combination must be in compliance with State laws and regulations. There are no highways in the State subject to Interstate System weight limits. Therefore, the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight is not applicable.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
Combinations with an overall length greater than 75 feet, measured bumper to bumper, must display an “OVERSIZE## warning sign on the front and rear. In combinations where one cargo-carrying unit is more than 5,000 pounds heavier than the other, the heavier unit shall be placed immediately behind the power unit. Weather restrictions are imposed when hazardous conditions exist, as determined by the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities (DOT
PF) and the Alaska Department of Public Safety, Division of State Troopers. Time of day travel is not restricted.
PERMIT:
None required.
ACCESS:
Alaska allows reasonable access not to exceed 5 miles to reach or return from terminals and facilities for food, fuel, or rest. The most direct route must be used. The Commissioner of the Alaska DOT
PF may allow access to specific routes if it can be shown that travel frequency, necessity, and route accommodation are required.
Routes
From
To
AK-1
Anchorage (Potter Weigh Station)
Palmer (Palmer-Wasilla Highway Junction).
AK-2
Fairbanks (Gaffney Road Junction)
Delta Junction (MP 1412 Alaska Highway).
AK-3
Jct. AK-1
Fairbanks (Gaffney Road Junction).

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
17 AAC 25, and 35; the Administrative Permit Manual.

# STATE: ALASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 110 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT and ACCESS:
Same as the AK-TT2 combination.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Drivers of this combination must have 10 years of experience in Alaska and certified training in operation of these combinations.
VEHICLE:
Individual trailer length in a three trailing unit combination shall not exceed 28.5 feet. Engine horsepower rating shall not be less than 400 horsepower.
These combinations are allowed to operate only between May 1 and September 30 of each year. Weather restrictions are imposed when hazardous conditions exist, as determined by the Alaska DOT
PF and the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Troopers. No movement is permitted if visibility is less than 1,000 feet.
PERMIT:
Permits are required with specified durations of not less than 3 months or more than 18 months. There is a fee.
Routes
From
To
AK-1
Anchorage (Potter Weigh Station)
Jct. AK-3.
AK-3
Jct. AK-1
Fairbanks (Gaffney Road Junction)

# LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the AK-TT2 combination.

# STATE: ALASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 83 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the AK-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the AK-TT2 combination, except that overall combination length may not exceed 90 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the AK-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the AK-TT2 combination.

# STATE: ARIZONA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Single-axle maximum weight limit is 20,000 pounds, tandem-axle maximum weight limit is 34,000 pounds, and the gross vehicle weight limit is 129,000 pounds, subject to the Federal Bridge Formula.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Drivers must comply with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation and Title 28, Arizona Revised Statutes.
VEHICLE:
This vehicle must be able to operate at speeds compatible with other traffic on level roads and maintain 20 miles per hour speed on grades where operated. A heavy-duty fifth wheel is required. The kingpin must be a solid type, not a screw-out or folding type. All hitch connectors must be of a no-slack type, preferably an air-actuated ram. Axles must be those designed for the width of the body. All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a “slippery road” valve, may be provided on the steering axle. Mud flaps or splash guards are required. When traveling on a smooth, paved surface, trailers must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line.
PERMITS:
Permits are required. Fees are charged. This vehicle is allowed continuous travel, however, the State may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when traffic, weather, or other safety considerations make such operations unsafe or inadvisable. All multiple-trailer combinations shall be driven in the right-hand traffic lane.
Access:
Access is allowed for 20 miles from I-15 Exits 8 and 27 or 20 miles from other authorized routes.
Routes
From
To
I-15
Nevada
Utah
US 89
20 miles south of Utah
Utah
US 160
US 163
New Mexico
US 163
US 160
Utah
LEGAL CITATIONS
ARS 28-107
ARS 28-1009
ARS 28-1011.O
ARS 28-108.5
ARS 28-1009.01
ARS 28-1012
ARS 28-108.13
ARS 28-1011.A
ARS 28-1013
ARS 28-108.14
ARS 28-1011.C
ARS 28-1014
ARS 28-403
ARS 28-1011.F
ARS 28-1031
ARS 28-405
ARS 28-1011.K
ARS 28-1051
ARS 28-1001
ARS 28-1011.L
ARS 28-1052
ARS 28-1004.G
ARS 28-1011.M
R17-40-426
ARS 28-1008

# STATE: ARIZONA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 123,000 pounds (129,000 pounds on I-15).

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
VEHICLE, and ACCESS:
Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
Weight:
Single-axle maximum weight limit is 20,000 pounds, tandem-axle maximum weight limit is 34,000 pounds, and the gross vehicle weight is 123,500 pounds (129,000 on I-15), subject to the Federal Bridge Formula.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Drivers must comply with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation and Title 28, Arizona Revised Statutes. Drivers must be trained by an experienced driver of a three trailing unit combination. Training should be through special instructions or by traveling with the new driver until such time as the new driver is deemed adequately qualified by the trainer on the use and operation of these combinations.
PERMIT:
Permits are required. Fees are charged. This vehicle is allowed continuous travel, however, the State may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when traffic, weather, or other safety considerations make such operations unsafe or inadvisable. These combinations shall not be dispatched during adverse weather conditions. All multiple-trailer combinations shall be driven in the right-hand traffic lane.
ROUTES: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.

# STATE: ARIZONA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 69 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.

# STATE: ARIZONA

# COMBINATION: Truck-semitrailer-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 98 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the AZ-TT2 combination.

# STATE: COLORADO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 111 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 110,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The maximum gross weight is 110,000 pounds, subject to the formula W = 800(L + 40) where “W” equals the gross weight in pounds and “L” equals the length in feet between the centers of the first and last axles, or the gross weight determined by the Federal Bridge Formula, whichever is least. A single axle shall not exceed 20,000 pounds and a tandem axle shall not exceed 36,000 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. The driver cannot have had any suspension of driving privileges in any State during the past 3 years where such suspension arose out of the operation of a motor vehicle used as a contract or common carrier of persons or property.
The driver must be certified by the motor carrier permit holder's safety office. The certification shall demonstrate that the driver has complied with all written requirements, and that the driver has successfully completed a company-approved road test for each type of combination vehicle operated.
VEHICLE:
Vehicles shall not have fewer than six axles or more than nine axles. They shall be configured such that the shorter trailer shall be operated as the rear trailer, and the trailer with the heavier gross weight shall be operated as the front trailer. In the event that the shorter trailer is also the heavier, the load must be adjusted so that the front trailer is the longer and heavier of the two.
Vehicles shall have adequate power to maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour on any grade over which the combination operates and can resume a speed of 20 miles per hour after stopping on any such grade.
Tires must conform to the standards in the Department of Public Safety's (DPS) Rules and Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation of Commercial Motor Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1 and C.R.S. 42-4-225 and 42-2-406.
Vehicles are required to have a heavy-duty fifth wheel and equal strength pick-up plates that meet the standards in the DPS Commercial Vehicle Rules. This equipment must be properly lubricated and located in a position that provides stability during normal operation, including braking. The trailers shall follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line.
Kingpins must be of a solid type and permanently fastened. Screw-out or folding type kingpins are prohibited.
Hitch connections must be of a no-slack type, preferably air-actuated ram.
Drawbar lengths shall be adequate to provide for the clearances required between the towing vehicle and the trailer(s) for turning and backing maneuvers.
Axles must be those designed for the width of the body of the trailer(s).
Braking systems must comply with the DPS Commercial Vehicle Rules and C.R.S. 42-4-220. Fast air-transmission and release valves must be provided on all trailer(s) and converter dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a “slippery road” valve, may be provided on the steering axle.
PERMIT:
An annual permit is required for which a fee is charged. Also, the vehicle must have an overweight permit pursuant to C.R.S. 42-4-409(11)(a)(II) (A), (B), or (C), and comply with Rule 4-15 in the rules pertaining to Extra-Legal Vehicles or Loads.
A truck tractor and two trailing units wherein at least one of the trailing units exceeds 28.5 feet in length shall not operate on the following designated highway segments during the hours of 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, for Colorado Springs, Denver, and Pueblo. (A truck tractor with two trailing units wherein at least one of the trailing units exceeds 28.5 feet in length not operating at greater than the legal maximum weight of 80,000 pounds is subject to different hours-of-operation restrictions. Refer to rules pertaining to Extra-Legal Vehicles or Loads).
Colorado Springs: I-25 between Exit 135 (CO 83 Academy Blvd. So.) and Exit 150 (CO 83, Academy Blvd. No.).
Denver: I-25 between Exit 200 (Jct. I-225) and Exit 223 (CO 128, 120th Avenue),
I-70 between Exit 259 (CO 26/US 40) and Exit 282 (Jct. I-225),
I-76 between Exit 5 (Jct. I-25) and Exit 12 (US 85),
I-225 entire length,
I-270 entire length.
Pueblo: I-25 between Exit 94 (CO 45 Lake Ave.) and Exit 101 (US 50/CO 47).
The holder of a longer vehicle combination (LVC) permit must have an established safety program as provided in Chapter 9 of the “Colorado Department of Highways Rules and Regulations for Operation of Longer Vehicle Combinations on Designated State Highway Segments.” Elements of the program include compliance with minimum safety standards at 8 CCR 1507-1, hazardous materials regulations at 8 CCR 1507-7, -8, and -9, Colorado Uniform Motor Vehicle Law, Articles 1 through 4 of Title 42, C.R.S. as amended, and Public Utility Commission regulations at 4 CCR 723-6, -8, -15, -22, and -23.
ACCESS:
A vehicle shall not be operated off the designated portions of the Interstate System except to access food, fuel, repairs, and rest or to access a facility. Access to a facility shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1) The facility must:
(a) Be either a manufacturing or a distribution center, a warehouse, or truck terminal located in an area where industrial uses are permitted;
(b) Be a construction site; and
(c) Meet the following criteria:
1
vehicles are formed for transport or broken down for delivery on the premises;
2
adequate off-roadway space exists on the premises to safely maneuver the vehicles; and
3
adequate equipment is available on the premises to handle, load, and unload the vehicle, its trailers, and cargo.
(2) The facility must be located within a maximum distance of 10 miles from the point where the vehicle enters or exits the designated portions of the Interstate System. Such 10-mile distance shall be measured by the actual route(s) to be traveled to the facility, rather than by a straight line radius from the designated Interstate System to the facility;
(3) The access route(s) between the designated Interstate System and the facility must be approved in advance by the public entity (Colorado DOT, municipality, or county) having jurisdiction for the roadway(s) that make up the route(s). Where the State of Colorado has jurisdiction over the access route(s), it will consider the following safety, engineering, and other criteria in determining whether to approve the route(s):
(a) Safety of the motoring public;
(b) Geometrics of the street and roadway;
(c) Traffic volumes and patterns;
(d) Protection of State highways, roadways, and structures;
(e) Zoning and general characteristics of the route(s) to be encountered; and
(f) Other relevant criteria warranted by special circumstances of the proposed route(s).
Local entities, counties, and municipalities having jurisdiction over route(s), should consider similar criteria in determining whether to approve the proposed ingress and egress route(s); and
(4) A permit holder shall access only the facility or location authorized by the permit. If the permit authorizes more than one facility or location, then on any single trip by an LVC from the designated Interstate System the permit holder may access only one facility or location before returning to the designated Interstate System.
Routes
From
To
I-25
New Mexico
Wyoming
I-70
Utah
I-70 Exit 90 Rifle
I-70
I-70 Exit 259 Golden
Kansas
I-76
Jct. I-70
Nebraska
I-225
Jct. I-25
Jct. I-70
I-270
Jct. I-76
Jct. I-70
LEGAL CITATIONS:
Vehicles must comply with all applicable statutes, such as C.R.S. 42-4-402(1), 42-4-404(1), 42-4-407(1)(c)(III)(A), 42-4-409(11)(a)(II) (A), (B) or (C). All LVC's must comply with the Extra-Legal Vehicles and Loads Rules and the Longer Vehicle Combination Rules. However, when the rules address the same subject, the LVC, since it is operating at greater than 80,000 pounds, must comply with the Extra-Legal Vehicles and Loads Rules. Such rules are: 4-1-2 and 4-1-3 concerning holiday travel restrictions, 4-1-5 concerning hours of operation restrictions, 4-8 concerning minimum distance between vehicles and 4-15 concerning maximum allowable gross weight.

# STATE: COLORADO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 115.5 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 110,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the CO-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the CO-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the CO-TT2 combination.

# STATE: COLORADO

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 78 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the CO-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the CO-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the CO-TT2 combination.

# STATE: FLORIDA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 106 feet
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: All overdimensional and weight regulations of the Florida Turnpike Authority shall apply to such units unless specifically excluded under the terms of the Tandem Trailer Permit or these regulations.
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Proposed drivers of tandem-trailer units shall be registered by the Florida Turnpike Authority prior to driving such equipment on the turnpike system. For further information, see Rule 14-62.016 FAC.
VEHICLE:
A complete tandem-trailer combination shall consist of a truck tractor, first semitrailer, fifth-wheel converter dolly, and a second semitrailer. The converter dolly may be either a separate unit or an integral component of the first semitrailer. The width shall not exceed 102 inches and the height shall not exceed 13 feet 6 inches. A tractor used in the tandem-trailer operations shall be capable of hauling the maximum gross load to be transported by a permittee at a speed of not less than 40 miles per hour on all portions of the turnpike system excepting that portion of the roadway, as posted in 1988, between mileposts 234 and 238 where a minimum speed of 30 miles per hour will be permitted.
Every tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with full air brakes or air-activated hydraulic brakes on the tractor and either air or electric brakes on the dolly and trailers.
A tractor, which will be used to haul a complete tandem-trailer combination with a total gross weight of 110,000 pounds or more, shall be equipped with tandem rear axles and driving power shall be applied to all wheels on both axles. When the above tandem-axle tractor is required, a tandem-axle dolly converter must be used.
Every tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with emergency equipment that equals or exceeds both the equipment requirements and the performance standards cited in Chapter 316, Florida Statutes and subpart H “Emergency Equipment” of 49 CFR 393.95.
A converter (fifth-wheel) dolly used in the tandem-trailer operations may have either single or tandem axles, according to its total gross weight. In addition to the primary towbar(s), the dolly vehicle must be equipped with safety chains or cables for connecting the dolly to the lead semitrailer and must be adequate to prevent breakaway.
Lamps and Reflectors. Each tractor, trailer, and converter dolly in a tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with electric lamps and reflectors mounted on the vehicle in accordance with Chapter 316, Florida Statutes, and subpart B “Lighting Devices, Reflectors and Electrical Equipment,” of 49 CFR 393.9 through 49 CFR 393.33.
Coupling Devices. Coupling devices shall be so designed, constructed, and installed and the vehicles in a tandem-trailer combination shall equal or exceed both the equipment requirements and the performance standards established on 49 CFR 393.70, except that such devices shall be so designed and constructed as to ensure that any such combination traveling on a level, smooth paved surface will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving from side to side over 2 inches to each side of the path of the vehicle when it is moving in a straight line. (For further information see Rule 14-62.002; 14-62.005; 14-62.006; 14-62.007; 14-62.008; 14-62.009; 14-62.010; 14-62.011; 14-62.012; 14-62.013; and 14-62.015, FAC)
PERMIT:
Tandem-trailer units may operate on the turnpike system under a Tandem
Trailer Permit issued by the Florida Turnpike Authority upon application, except as provided in subparagraph (2) below.
(1) The Florida Turnpike Authority shall provide a copy of each such permit to the Motor Carrier Compliance Office.
(2) Tandem-trailer trucks of the dimensions mandated by the STAA of 1982 and operating in compliance with Rule Chapter 14-54, FAC, and under the provisions of section 316.515, Florida Statutes shall be exempt from the provisions of this rule chapter to the extent provided in Rule 14-54.0011, FAC.
(For further information see Rules 14-62.001; 14-62.022; 14-62.023; 14-62.024; 14-62.026; 14-62.027, FAC)
ACCESS:
Staging. Tandem-trailer combinations shall be made up and broken up only in special assembly (staging) areas as designated for this purpose. For further information, see Rule 14-62.017, FAC. Make-up and break-up of tandem-trailer combinations shall not be allowed on a public right-of-way unless the area is designated for such use or unless an emergency exists.
Routes
From
To
Florida's Turnpike
South end Homestead Extension at US 1
Exit 304 Wildwood.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Chapter 14-62, “Regulations Governing Tandem Combinations of Florida's Turnpike,” Florida Administrative Code.

# STATE: HAWAII

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units

# LENGTH OF CARGO CARRYING UNITS: 65 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
No load may exceed the carrying capacity of the axles specified by the manufacturer and no combination vehicle shall have a total weight in excess of its designed gross combination weight limit.
PERMITS:
No permits are required.
ACCESS:
Designated routes off the NN.
ROUTES: All NN routes except HI-95 from H-1 to Barbers Point Harbor.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Chapter 291, Section 34, Hawaii Revised Statutes and Chapter 104 of Title 19, Administrative Rules.

# STATE: IDAHO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Single axle: 20,000 pounds, tandem axle: 34,000 pounds, and gross vehicle weight up to 105,500 pounds.
Axle spacing: must comply with Idaho Code 49-1001.
Trailer weights: The respective loading of any trailer shall not be substantially greater than the weight of any trailer located ahead of it in the vehicle combination. Substantially greater shall be defined as more than 4,000 pounds heavier.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The rules provide that all CMV's with two or more cargo-carrying units (except for truck-trailer combinations which are limited to an 85-foot combination length) are subject to calculated maximum off-tracking (CMOT) limits. The CMOT formula is:
CMOT = R − [R
2
− (A
2
+ B
2
+ C
2
+ D
2
+ E
2
)]
1/2
R = 161
A, B, C, D, E, etc. = measurements between points of articulation or pivot. Squared dimensions to stinger steer points of articulation are negative.
The power unit of LCV's and extra-length combinations shall have adequate power and traction to maintain a speed of 15 miles per hour under normal operating conditions on any up-grade over which the combination is operated.
Fifth-wheel, drawbar, and other coupling devices shall be as specified by Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, section 393.70.
Every combination operated under special permit authority shall be covered by insurance meeting State and Federal requirements. Evidence of this insurance must be carried in the permitted vehicle.
PERMIT:
Permits are required. Permit duration is for 1 year from the date of issuance.
ACCESS:
Combinations with a CMOT limit of less than 6.5 feet may use any Interstate or designated highway system interchange for access. Combinations with a CMOT of 6.5 to 8.75 feet may use only the following Interstate System interchanges:
I-15 Exits 58 and 119.
I-84 Exits 3, 49, 50, 52, 54, 57, 95, 168, 173, 182, 208, and 211.
I-86 Exits 36, 40, 56, and 58.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Other regulations and restrictions that must be complied with are:
Idaho Code 49-1001, -1002, -1004, -1010, and -1011.
Idaho Transportation Department Rules 39.C.01, .06, .08, .09, .10, .11, .15, and .19-.23.

# STATE: IDAHO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.

# STATE: IDAHO

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 78 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Overall combination length limited to 85 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.

# STATE: IDAHO

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer-trailer, and Truck-semitrailer-trailer.

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 98 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Overall combination length limited to 105 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the ID-TT2 combination.

# STATE: INDIANA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 106 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 127,400 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Single axle = 22,400 pounds. Axles spaced less than 40 inches between centers are considered to be single axles.
Tandem axle = 36,000 pounds. Axles spaced more than 40 inches but less than 9 feet between centers are considered to be tandem axles.
Gross vehicle weight = 90,000 pounds plus 1,070 pounds per foot for each foot of total vehicle length in excess of 60 feet with a maximum gross weight not to exceed 127,400 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement, and a Toll Road identification card. Drivers must be at least 26 years old, in good health, and with 5 years of experience driving tractor-semitrailers or tandem-trailer combinations. Experience must include driving in all four seasons.
VEHICLE:
Lightest trailer to the rear. Distance between coupled trailers shall not exceed 9 feet. The combination vehicle, including coupling devices, shall be designed and constructed so as to ensure that while traveling on a level, smooth paved surface each trailing unit will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving from side to side more than 3 inches. The combination vehicle must have at least five axles but not more than nine axles and except on ramps be able to achieve and maintain a speed of 45 miles per hour. Following distance is 500 feet, and passing maneuvers must be completed within 1 mile. The truck tractor must be equipped at a minimum with emergency equipment including fire extinguisher, spare fuses, tire chains, tire tread minimums, and disabled vehicle warning devices. Every dolly must be coupled with safety chain directly to the frame of the semitrailer by which it is towed. Each unit in a multi-trailer combination must be equipped at a minimum with electric lights and reflectors mounted on the vehicle.
PERMIT:
A free annual tandem-trailer permit must be obtained from the Indiana DOT for loads which exceed 90,000 pounds. A multiple-trip access permit, for which a fee is charged, must also be obtained for access to points of delivery or to breakdown locations. Permission to operate can be temporarily suspended by the Indiana DOT due to weather, road conditions, holiday traffic, or other emergency conditions. Any oversize vehicle
whose length exceeds 80 feet shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 45 miles per hour. Oversize loads are not to be operated at any time when wind velocity exceeds 25 miles per hour.
ACCESS:
15 miles from toll gates.
Routes
From
To
I-80/90 (IN Toll Road)
Toll Road Gate 21
Ohio.
I-90 (IN Toll Road)
Illinois
Toll Road Gate 21.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Indiana Code 9-8-1-16
Indiana Code 8-15-2
135 Indiana Administrative Code 2

# STATE: INDIANA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 104.5 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 127,400 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the IN-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Semitrailers and trailers shall not be longer than 28.5 feet, and the minimum number of axles for the combination is seven. Three trailing unit combinations must be equipped with adequate spray-suppressant mud flaps which are properly maintained.
ROUTES: Same as the IN-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the IN-TT2 combination.

# STATE: INDIANA

# COMBINATION: Combination of three or more vehicles coupled together

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO CARRYING UNITS: 58 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The maximum width is 102 inches, and the maximum height is 13 feet 6 inches.
PERMIT:
None required.
ACCESS:
Unlimited.

# ROUTES: All roads within the State.

# LEGAL CITATIONS: Indiana Code 9-8-1-2.

# STATE: IOWA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV.

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 100 feet when entering Sioux City from South Dakota or South Dakota from Sioux City; 65 feet when entering Sioux City from Nebraska or Nebraska from Sioux City.

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds when entering Sioux City from South Dakota or South Dakota from Sioux City; 95,000 pounds when entering Sioux City from Nebraska or Nebraska from Sioux City.

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
Iowa allows vehicles from South Dakota and Nebraska access to terminals which are located within the corporate limits of Sioux City and its commercial zone as shown in 49 CFR 1048.101 on November 28, 1995. These vehicles must be legal in the State from which they enter Iowa.
WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE, AND PERMIT:
Same conditions which apply to a truck tractor and 2 trailing units legally operating in South Dakota or Nebraska.
ACCESS:
These combinations may operate on any road within the corporate limits of Sioux City and its commercial zone as shown in 49 CFR 1048.101 on November 28, 1995, when authorized by appropriate State or local authority.
ROUTES: LCV combinations may operate on all Interstate System routes in Sioux City and its commercial zone as shown in 49 CFR 1048.101 on November 28, 1995. If subject only to the ISTEA freeze on length, they may operate on all NN routes in Sioux City and its commercial zone, as above.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Iowa Code § 321.457(2)(f) (1995).

# STATE: IOWA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV.

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 100 feet when entering Sioux City from South Dakota or South Dakota from Sioux City.

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 POUNDS when entering Sioux City from South Dakota or South Dakota from Sioux City.

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE, AND PERMIT:
Same as the SD-TT3 combination.
ACCESS:
Same as the IA-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the IA-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATION: Same as the IA-TT2 combination.

# STATE: IOWA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer.

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 78 feet when entering Sioux City from South Dakota or South Dakota from Sioux City; 68 feet when entering Sioux City from Nebraska or Nebraska from Sioux City.

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
Iowa allows vehicles from South Dakota and Nebraska access to terminals which are located within the corporate limits of Sioux City and its commercial zone, as shown in 49 CFR 1048.101 on November 28, 1995. These vehicles must be legal in the State from which they enter Iowa.
WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE, AND PERMIT:
Same conditions which apply to a truck-trailer combination legally operating in Nebraska or South Dakota.
ACCESS:
Same as the IA-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as IA-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATION: Same as the IA-TT2 combination.

# STATE: KANSAS

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 109 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 120,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Combinations consisting of a truck tractor and two trailing units must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula, with maximum weights of 20,000 pounds on a single axle and 34,000 pounds on a tandem axle, and with a maximum gross weight of 120,000 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
Truck tractor and two trailing unit combinations must meet legal width and height with no time-of-day travel restrictions or other special requirements.
PERMIT:
Permits are not required for operation on the Kansas Turnpike. A permit is required for access between the Turnpike and motor freight terminals located within a 10-mile radius of each toll booth, except at the northeastern end of the Turnpike where a 20-mile radius is allowed. Access permits are valid for 6 months.
ACCESS:
Turnpike access routes include all routes between the Turnpike and a motor freight terminal located within a 10-mile radius of each toll booth, except at the northeastern end of the Turnpike where a 20-mile radius is allowed.
Routes
From
To
I-35 Kansas Tpk. Authority (KTA)
Oklahoma
KTA Exit 127.
I-70 KTA
KTA Exit 182
KTA Exit 223.
I-335 KTA
KTA Exit 127
KTA Exit 177.
I-470 KTA
KTA Exit 177
KTA Exit 182.
LEGAL CITATIONS:
Kansas Statutes Annotated (KSA)
KSA 8-1911
KSA 68-2004
KSA 68-2019.
KSA 8-1914
KSA 68-2005
KSA 68-2048a.
KSA 68-2003

# STATE: KANSAS

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 109 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 120,000 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: The operations of triple trailing unit combinations are governed by two sets of criteria: (1) The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules, and (2) the SVC rules which apply off of the Turnpike except in the case of vehicles operating under Turnpike access authority. The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules allow a maximum combination vehicle length of 119 feet overall. The SVC rules require “Triples” to have trailers of no more than 28.5 feet maximum length or a cargo-carrying length of approximately 95 feet.
The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules have no time-of-day travel restrictions or other special requirements.
The SVC rules have several operational conditions. SVC's cannot operate on holidays or during holiday weekends. SVC's cannot be dispatched or operated during adverse weather conditions. SVC's must travel in the right lane, except for passing, and the following distance is 100 feet for every 10 miles per hour. SVC permits can include any restrictions deemed necessary, including specific routes and hours, days, and/or seasons of operation. Rules and regulations can be promulgated regarding driver qualifications, vehicle equipment, and operational standards.
WEIGHT:
All triple trailing unit combinations must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula with maximum axle weights of 20,000 pounds on a single axle and 34,000 pounds on a tandem axle. The maximum
gross weight is 120,000 pounds on the Turnpike and Turnpike access routes, but the SVC's have a maximum weight of 110,000 pounds.
DRIVER:
A commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement is required under both Turnpike and SVC rules. In addition, for SVC operation drivers must have completed SVC driver training and a company road test. Drivers must also have 2 years of experience driving tractor-semitrailers and 1 year driving doubles.
VEHICLE:
Vehicle requirements apply to the SVC program only. All axles, except steering axles, must have dual wheels, and all vehicles must be able to achieve and maintain a speed of 40 miles per hour on all grades. Antispray mud flaps shall be attached to the rear of each axle except the steering axle. Mud flaps shall have a surface designed to absorb and deflect excess moisture to the road surface. Drop and lift axles are prohibited. Vehicles may have a minimum of six and a maximum of nine axles. The heaviest trailers are to be placed forward. Hazardous cargo is prohibited. Convex mirrors are required on both sides of the cab. Equipment must comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 390-399.
Any SVC shall be stable at all times during normal braking and normal operation. When traveling on a level, smooth paved surface, an SVC shall follow the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving beyond the restraints of the lane of travel.
PERMIT:
Same as the KS-TT2 combination on the Turnpike and Turnpike access routes. A fee per company plus a permit fee for each power unit is required for the SVC program, and the SVC permits are valid for 1 year. SVC's operated pursuant to regulation 36-1-33 under an annual permit shall be covered by insurance.
ACCESS:
Turnpike access routes include all routes between the Turnpike and a motor freight terminal located within a 10-mile radius of each toll booth, except at the northeastern end of the Turnpike where a 20-mile radius is allowed. SVC access routes include all routes between the Interstate and a motor freight terminal located within 5 miles of the Interstate at Goodland.

# ROUTES:
A. For vehicles subject to the Turnpike and Turnpike access rules:
From
To
I-35 KTA
Oklahoma
KTA Exit 127.
I-70 KTA
KTA Exit 182
KTA Exit 223.
I-335 KTA
KTA Exit 127
KTA Exit 177.
I-470 KTA
KTA Exit 177
KTA Exit 182.
B. For vehicles subject to the SVC rules:
From
To
I-70
Colorado
I-70 Exit 19 Goodland.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the KS-TT2 combination, plus KSA 8-1915.

# STATE: MASSACHUSETTS

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 104 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 127,400 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Any combination of vehicles may not exceed a maximum gross weight of 127,400 pounds. The maximum gross weight of the tractor and first semitrailer shall not exceed 71,000 pounds. The maximum gross weight of each unit of dolly and semitrailer shall not exceed 56,400 pounds. The maximum gross weight for the tractor and first semitrailer is governed by the formula 35,000 pounds plus 1,000 pounds per foot between the center of the foremost axle and the center of the rearmost axle of the semitrailer. The maximum gross weight on any one axle is 22,400 pounds, and on any tandem axle it is 36,000 pounds. Axles less than 46 inches between centers are considered to be one axle.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement and must be registered with the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority (MTA). Registration shall include all specified driving records, safety records, physical examinations, and minimum of 5 years of driving experience with tractor trailers.
VEHICLE:
(1) Brake Regulation. The brakes on any vehicle, dolly converter, or combination of vehicles used in tandem-trailer operations as a minimum shall comply with Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations in 49 CFR part 393. In addition, any vehicle, dolly converter or combination of vehicles used in tandem-trailer operations shall meet the requirements of the provisions of the Massachusetts Motor Vehicle Law. Tandem-trailer combinations certified on or after June 1, 1968, shall be equipped with suitable devices to accelerate application and release of the brakes of the towed vehicle.
(2) Axles. A tractor used to haul a tandem trailer combination with a gross weight of more than 110,000 pounds shall be equipped with tandem rear axles, each of which shall be engaged to bear its full share of the load on the roadway surface.
(3) Tandem Assembly. When the gross weight of the trailers vary by more than 20 percent, they shall be coupled with the
heaviest trailer attached to the tractor. Coupling devices and towing devices shall comply with the Federal regulations as stated in 49 CFR part 393. When the distance between the rear of the one semitrailer and the front of the following semitrailer is 10 feet or more, the dolly shall be equipped with a device, or the trailers shall be connected along the sides with suitable material, which will indicate to other Turnpike users that the trailers are connected and are in effect one unit. The MTA shall approve the devices or connections to be used on the semitrailers that would indicate it is one unit. Coupling devices shall be so designed, constructed, and installed, and the vehicles in a tandem trailer combination shall be so designed and constructed to ensure that when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface they will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving over 3 inches to each side of the path of the towing vehicle when it is moving in a straight line. A tandem trailer unit may pass another vehicle traveling in the same direction only if the speed differential will allow the tandem trailer unit to complete the maneuver and return to the normal driving lane within a distance of 1 mile.
Each truck tractor shall be equipped with at least one spare fuse or other overload protective device, if the devices are not of a reset type, for each kind and size used. The vehicle is to carry at least one set of tire chains for at least one driving wheel on each side between October 15 and May 1 of each year. Each truck tractor shall carry a fire extinguisher which shall have an aggregate rating of 20 BC.
PERMIT:
A permittee must demonstrate to the MTA that it has insurance coverage of the type and amounts required by Turnpike regulation. Both the tractor manufacturer and the permittee shall certify to the MTA, prior to the approval of a tractor, that it is capable of hauling the maximum permissible gross load to be transported by the permittee at a speed not less than 20 miles per hour on all portions of the turnpike system. The MTA may revoke or temporarily suspend any permit at will and the instructions of the MTA or Massachusetts State Police shall be complied with immediately.
ACCESS:
Makeup and breakup areas. Tandem trailer units shall not leave the Turnpike right-of-way and shall be assembled and disassembled only in designated areas.
Routes
From
To
I-90 Mass Turnpike
New York State
Turnpike Exit 18 Boston.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
The MTA, Massachusetts Rules and Regulations 730, and CMR 4.00.

# STATE: MICHIGAN

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 58 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 164,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The single-axle weight limit for LCV's is 18,000 pounds for axles spaced 9 feet or more apart. For axles spaced more than 3.5 but less than 9 feet apart, the single-axle weight limit is 13,000 pounds. The tandem-axle weight limit is 16,000 pounds per axle for the first tandem and 13,000 pounds per axle for all other tandems. Axles spaced less than 3.5 feet apart are limited to 9,000 pounds per axle. Maximum load per inch width of tire is 700 pounds. Maximum gross weight is determined based on axle and axle group weight limits.
When restricted seasonal loadings are in effect, load per inch width of tire and maximum axle weights are reduced as follows: Rigid pavements—525 pounds per inch of tire width, 25 percent axle weight reduction; Flexible pavements—450 pounds per inch of tire width, 35 percent axle weight reduction.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
Truck height may not exceed 13.5 feet. There is no overall length for LCV's operating on the Interstate System when semitrailer and trailer lengths do not exceed 28.5 feet. If either the trailer or semitrailer is longer than 28.5 feet, the distance from the front of the first box to the rear of the second box may not exceed 58 feet. A combination of vehicles shall not have more than 11 axles, and the ratio of gross weight to net horsepower delivered to the clutch shall not exceed 400 to 1.
PERMIT:
Permits for divisible loads of more than 80,000 pounds must conform to either Federal or grandfathered axle and bridge spacing requirements.
ACCESS:
All designated State highways.
ROUTES: All Interstate routes and designated State highways.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Michigan Public Act 300, section 257.722
Michigan Public Act 300, section 257.719

# STATE: MICHIGAN

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 63 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The overall length of this combination is limited to 70 feet. The only cargo that may be carried is saw logs, pulpwood, and tree length poles.
PERMIT:
None required.
ACCESS:
All NN routes.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Michigan Public Act 300, section 257.719.

# STATE: MISSISSIPPI

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 65 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
Each trailing unit may be a maximum of 30 feet long.
PERMIT:
None required.
ACCESS:
No restrictions, may operate Statewide.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Section 63-5-19, Mississippi Code, Annotated, 1972.

# STATE: MISSOURI

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 110 feet
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 120,000 pounds when entering Missouri from Kansas; 95,000 pounds when entering from Nebraska; 90,000 pounds when entering from Oklahoma.
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Missouri allows vehicles from neighboring States access to terminals in Missouri which are within 20 miles of the Missouri State Line. These vehicles must be legal in the State from which they are entering Missouri.
WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE:
Same conditions which apply to a truck tractor and two trailing units legally operating in Kansas, Nebraska, or Oklahoma.
PERMIT:
Annual blanket overdimension permits are issued to allow a truck tractor and two trailing units legally operating in Kansas, Nebraska, or Oklahoma to move to and from terminals in Missouri which are located within a 20-mile band of the State Line for these three States. There is a permit fee per power unit. The permits carry routine permit restrictions, but do not address driver qualifications or any other restrictions not included in the rules and regulations for all permitted movement.
ACCESS:
Routes as necessary to reach terminals.
ROUTES: All NN routes within a 20-mile band from the Kansas, Nebraska, and Oklahoma borders.
LEGAL CITATIONS: § 304.170 and § 304.200 Revised Statutes of Missouri 1990.

# STATE: MISSOURI

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 109 feet
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 120,000 pounds when entering Missouri from Kansas; 90,000 pounds when entering from Oklahoma.
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Missouri allows vehicles from neighboring States access to terminals in Missouri which are within 20 miles of the Missouri State Line. These vehicles must be legal in the State from which they are entering Missouri.
WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE:
Same conditions which apply to a truck tractor and three trailing units legally operating in Kansas or Oklahoma.
PERMIT:
Annual blanket overdimension permits are issued to allow a truck tractor and three trailing units legally operating in Kansas or Oklahoma, to move to and from terminals in Missouri which are located within a 20-mile band of the State Line for these two States. There is a permit fee per power unit. The permits carry routine permit restrictions, but do not address driver qualifications or any other restrictions not included in the rules and regulations for all permitted movement.
ACCESS:
Routes as necessary to reach terminals.
ROUTES: All NN routes within a 20-mile band from the Kansas and Oklahoma borders.
LEGAL CITATIONS: § 304.170
§ 304.200 Revised Statutes of Missouri 1990.

# STATE: MONTANA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 93 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 137,800 pounds for vehicles operating under the Montana/Alberta Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). For other MT-TT2 combinations, the maximum allowable gross weight is 131,060 pounds.

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT: Except for vehicles operating under the MOU, any vehicle carrying a divisible load over 80,000 pounds must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula found in 23 U.S.C. 127.
Maximum single-axle limit: 20,000 pounds
Maximum tandem-axle limit: 34,000 pounds
Maximum gross weight limit: 131,060 pounds
Maximum weight allowed per inch of tire width is 600 pounds.
WEIGHT, MONTANA/ALBERTA MOU:
Maximum single-axle limit: 20,000 pounds
Maximum tandem-axle limit: 37,500 pounds
Maximum tridem-axle limit:
Axles spaced from 94″ to less than 118″: 46,300 pounds
Axles spaced from 118″ to less than 141″: 50,700 pounds
Axles spaced from 141″ to 146″: 52,900 pounds
Maximum gross weight:
A-Train: 118,000 pounds
B-Train (eight axle): 137,800 pounds
B-Train (seven axle): 124,600 pounds
The designation of “A-Train” or “B-Train” refers to the manner in which the two trailing units are connected.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
No special requirements beyond compliance with Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations.
PERMIT:
Special permit required for double trailer combinations if either trailer exceeds 28.5 feet. Permits are available on an annual or a trip basis and provide for continuous travel. Statutory reference: 61-10-124, MCA. For vehicles being operated under the Montana/Alberta MOU, operators must have paid gross vehicle weight fees for the total weight being carried. In addition, a term Restricted Route and Oversize Permit for which an annual fee is charged must be obtained. Finally, vehicle operators must secure a single-trip, overweight permit prior to each trip.
ACCESS:
Access must be authorized by the Montana DOT. For vehicles operated under the Montana/Alberta MOU, access routes from I-15 into Shelby are authorized when permits are issued. For vehicles with a cargo-carrying length greater than 88 feet, but not more than 93 feet, a 2-mile access from the Interstate System is automatically granted to terminals and service areas. Access outside the 2-mile provision may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator of the Motor Carrier Services Division.
ROUTES: Combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 88 feet, but not more than 93 feet, are limited to the Interstate System. Combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 88 feet or less can use all NN routes except U.S. 87 from milepost 79.3 to 82.5. For vehicles being operated under the Montana/Alberta MOU, the only route available is I-15 from the border with Canada to Shelby.
LEGAL CITATION:
61-10-124 MCA
61-10-104 MCA
ARM 18.8.509(6)
61-10-107 (3) MCA
61-10-121 MCA
ARM 18.8.517, 518
Montana/Alberta Memorandum of Understanding
Administrative Rules of Montana

# STATE: MONTANA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 100 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 131,060 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Any vehicle carrying a divisible load over 80,000 pounds must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula found in 23 U.S.C. 127.
Maximum single-axle limit: 20,000 pounds
Maximum tandem-axle limit: 34,000 pounds
Maximum gross weight limit: 131,060 pounds
Maximum weight allowed per inch of tire width is 600 pounds.
DRIVER:
Drivers of three trailing unit combinations must be certified by the operating company. This certification includes an actual driving test and knowledge of Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations and State law pertaining to triple vehicle operations. Drivers are also required to have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The 100-foot cargo-carrying length is only with a conventional tractor within a 110-foot overall length limit. If a cabover tractor is used, the cargo length is 95 feet within a 105-foot overall length limit. Vehicles involved in three trailing unit operations must comply with the following regulations:
1. Shall maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour on any grade;
2. Kingpins must be solid and permanently affixed;
3. Hitch connections must be no-slack type;
4. Drawbars shall be of minimum practical length;
5. Permanently affixed axles must be designed for the width of the trailer;
6. Anti-sail mudflaps or splash and spray suppression devices are required;
7. The heavier trailers shall be in front of lighter trailers;
8. A minimum distance of 100 feet per 10 miles per hour is required between other vehicles except when passing;
9. Operating at speeds greater than 55 miles per hour is prohibited; and
10. Vehicle and driver are subject to Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations.
Reference: 18.8.517 Administrative Rules of Montana.
PERMIT:
Special triple vehicle permits are required for the operation of these combinations. Permits are available on an annual or trip basis. Permits are good for travel on the Interstate System only and are subject to the following conditions:
1. Travel is prohibited during adverse weather conditions;
2. Transportation of Class A explosives is prohibited; and
3. Companies operating triple combinations must have an established safety program including driver certifications.
ACCESS:
Access is for 2 miles beyond the Interstate System, or further if granted by the Administrator of the Motor Carrier Services Division.
ROUTES: Interstate System routes in the State.
LEGAL CITATION: 18.8.517 Administrative Rules of Montana.

# STATE: MONTANA

# COMBINATION: Truck-Trailer

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 88 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, and ACCESS:
Same as the MT-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the MT-TT2 combination, except overall length limited to 95 feet.
PERMIT:
Special permit required if overall length exceeds 75 feet. Special permits allow continuous travel and are available on an annual or trip basis.
ROUTES: Same as the MT-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: 61-10-121 and 61-10-124, MCA.

# STATE: MONTANA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 103 feet
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the MT-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
The cargo-carrying unit length is 103 feet with a conventional truck within a 110-foot overall length limit, and 98 feet with a cab-over-engine truck within a 105-foot overall length limit. On two-lane highways the cargo-carrying unit length is 88 feet within a 95-foot overall length limit.
ROUTES: All NN routes except U.S. 87 between mileposts 79.3 and 82.5.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
61-10-124 MCA
61-10-121 MCA
ARM 18-8-509

# STATE: NEBRASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet for combination units traveling empty. 65 feet for combination units carrying cargo, except those carrying seasonally harvested products from the field where they are harvested to storage, market, or stockpile in the field, or from stockpile to market, which may extend the length to 71.5 feet.

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Maximum weight:
Single axle = 20,000 pounds
Tandem axle = 34,000 pounds
Gross = Determined by Federal Bridge Formula B, but not to exceed 95,000 pounds.
Truck tractor and 2 trailing unit combinations with a length of cargo-carrying units of over 65 feet are required to travel empty.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. There are no additional special qualifications where the cargo-carrying unit lengths are 65 feet or less. For cargo-carrying unit lengths over 65 feet, the driver must comply with all State and Federal requirements and must not have had any accidents while operating such vehicles.
VEHICLE:
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 65 feet, but not over 85 feet, the semitrailer cannot exceed 48 feet in length and the full trailer cannot be less than 26 feet or more than 28 feet long. The
shorter trailer must be placed to the rear. The wheel path of the trailer(s) cannot vary more than 3 inches from that of the towing vehicle.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 85 feet, up to and including 95 feet, the trailers must be of approximately equal length.
PERMIT:
A weight permit in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Nebraska Department of Roads (NDOR) Rules and Regulations is required for operating on the Interstate System with weight in excess of 80,000 pounds.
A length permit, in accordance with Chapters 8 or 11 of the NDOR Rules and Regulations, is required for two trailing unit combinations with a length of cargo-carrying units over 65 feet. Except for permits issued to carriers hauling seasonally harvested products in combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 65 feet but not more than 71.5 feet which may move as necessary to accommodate crop movement requirements, holders of length permits are subject to the following conditions.
Movement is prohibited on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays; when ground wind speed exceeds 25 miles per hour; when visibility is less than 800 feet; or when steady rain, snow, sleet, ice, or other conditions cause slippery pavement. Beginning November 15 until April 16 permission to move must be obtained from the NDOR Permit Office within 3 hours of movement. Beginning April 16 until November 15 permission to move must be obtained within 3 days of the movement.
Fees are charged for all permits. Length permits for combinations carrying seasonally harvested products are valid for 30 days and are renewable but may not authorize operation for more than 150 days per year.
All permits are subject to revocation if the terms are violated.
ACCESS:
Access to NN routes is not restricted for two trailing unit combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 65 feet or less, or 71.5 feet or less if involved in carrying seasonally harvested products. For two trailing unit combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 65 feet and not involved in carrying seasonally harvested products, access to and from I-80 is limited to designated staging areas within six miles of the route between the Wyoming State Line and Exit 440 (Nebraska Highway 50); and except for weather, emergency, and repair, cannot reenter I-80 after exiting.
ROUTES: Except for length permits issued to carriers hauling seasonally harvested products in combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 65 feet but not more than 71.5 feet which may use all non-Interstate NN routes, vehicles requiring length permits are restricted to Interstate 80 between the Wyoming State Line and Exit 440 (Nebraska Highway 50). Combinations not requiring length permits may use all NN routes.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Nebraska Revised Statutes Reissued 1988
§ 39-6,179 (Double trailers under 65 feet)
§ 39-6,179.01 (Double trailers over 65 feet)
§ 39-6,180.01 (Authorized weight limits)
§ 39-6,181 (Vehicles; size; weight; load; overweight; special permits; etc.)
Nebraska Department of Roads Rules and Regulations, Title 408, Chapter 1 (Double trailers over 65 feet)

# STATE: NEBRASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
A truck tractor and three trailing unit combination is required to travel empty.
DRIVER:
Same as the NE-TT2 combination.
PERMIT:
A length permit, in accordance with Chapter 11 of the NDOR Rules and Regulations is required for a three trailing unit combination. Conditions of the length permit prohibit movements on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays; when ground wind speed exceeds 25 miles per hour; and when visibility is less than 800 feet. Movement is also prohibited during steady rain, snow, sleet, ice, or other conditions causing slippery pavement. Beginning November 15 until April 16 permission to move must be obtained from the NDOR Permit Office within 3 hours of movement. Beginning April 16 until November 15 permission to move must be obtained within 3 days of the movement. A fee is charged for the annual length permit. These permits can be revoked if the terms are violated.
ACCESS:
Access to and from I-80 is limited to designated staging areas within 6 miles of the route between Wyoming State Line and Exit 440 (Nebraska Route 50). Except for weather, emergency, and repair, three trailing unit combinations cannot reenter the Interstate after having exited.
VEHICLE:
A three trailing unit combination must have trailers of approximately equal length and the overall vehicle length cannot exceed 105 feet.
ROUTES: I-80 from Wyoming to Exit 440 (Nebraska Highway 50).

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 39-6.179,01 (Reissue 1988)
Nebraska Department of Roads Rules and Regulations, Title 408, Chapter 1

# STATE: NEBRASKA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 68 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The overall vehicle length, including load, cannot exceed 75 feet.
PERMIT:
No permit is required.
ACCESS:
Statewide during daylight hours only.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Neb. Rev. Stat. § 39-6,179.

# STATE: NEVADA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The single-axle weight limit is 20,000 pounds, the tandem-axle weight limit is 34,000 pounds, and the gross weight is subject to the Federal Bridge Formula limits, provided that two consecutive tandems with a distance of 36 feet or more between the first and last axle may carry 34,000 pounds on each tandem.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement, be at least 25 years old, and have had a medical exam within previous 24 months. Every operator must be covered by a liability insurance policy with personal injury and property damage limits meeting State requirements.
VEHICLE:
No trailer may be longer than 48 feet. If one trailer is 48 feet long, the other trailer cannot exceed 42 feet. Towed vehicles must not shift or sway more than 3 inches to right or left and must track in a straight line on a level, smooth paved highway. Vehicles must be able to accelerate and operate on a level highway at speeds which are compatible with other traffic and with the speed limits and must be able to maintain a minimum of 20 miles per hour on any grade on which they may operate. All vehicles must have safety chains on converter dollies. Vehicles must carry snow chains for each drive wheel.
Vehicle operations may be suspended in adverse weather and high winds, as determined by police or the Nevada DOT.
The shortest trailer must be in the rear of a combination unless it is heavier than the longer trailer.
Brakes must comply with all State and Federal requirements for commercial vehicles including automatic braking for separation of vehicles, parking brakes, and working lights.
Vehicles must not exceed posted speed limits and cannot operate on any highway on which they cannot at all times stay on the right side of the center line. All LCV's must keep a distance of at least 500 feet from each other.
Every full-sized truck or truck tractor used in a combination of vehicles must be equipped with at least the following emergency and safety equipment:
1. One fire extinguisher which meets “Classification B” of the National Fire Protection Association.
2. One spare light bulb for every electrical lighting device used on the rear of the last vehicle in a combination of vehicles.
3. One spare fuse for each different kind and size of fuse used in every vehicle in the combination of vehicles. If the electrical system of any vehicle in the combination contains any devices for protection of electrical circuits from overloading, other than fuses and circuit breakers which can be reset, one spare of each such device must be kept as emergency and safety equipment.
4. Any flares, reflectors or red electrical lanterns which meet State or Federal law or regulation.
Before operating a combination of vehicles on a highway of this State, the owner or operator of the combination shall certify to the Nevada DOT, on a form provided by it, that all vehicles and equipment in the combination meet the requirements of and will be operated in compliance with NAC 484.300 to 484.440, inclusive.
All axles except for steering axles and axles that weigh less than 10,000 pounds must have at least four tires unless the tire width of each tire on the axles is 14 inches or greater.
PERMIT:
Permits are required and a fee is charged. They may be revoked for violation of any of the provisions of the legal regulations. The State may suspend operation on roads deemed unsafe or impracticable. Permits must be carried in the vehicle along with identification devices issued by the Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles.
ACCESS:
As authorized by the Nevada DOT.
ROUTES: All NN routes, except US 93 from Nevada State route 500 to Arizona.
LEGAL CITATIONS: NRS 484.400, .405(4), .425, .430, .739, 408.100-4, .100-6(a), and 706.531.
Also, “Regulations for the Operation of 70 to 105 foot Combinations” (1990).

# STATE: NEVADA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the NV-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the NV-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the NV-TT2 combination.

# STATE: NEVADA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer, and Truck-trailer-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 98 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, and ACCESS:
Same as the NV-TT2 combination.
PERMITS:
Same as the NV-TT2 combination, except permits for Truck-trailer, or Truck-trailer-trailer combinations are only required when the overall length is 70 feet or more.
ROUTES: Same as the NV-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the NV-TT2 combination.

# STATE: NEW MEXICO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: Not applicable

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 86,400 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: The cargo-carrying length restriction does not apply to this combination. The length of each trailing unit is limited to 28.5 feet. This describes a two trailing unit vehicle whose operation is guaranteed by the STAA of 1982 regardless of inter-unit spacing. As long as each trailing unit is 28.5 feet long or less, cargo-carrying length is not restricted. This combination is listed as a LCV because it can exceed the 80,000-pound threshold established in the Congressional definition. The 86,400-pound gross weight limit is grandfathered for New Mexico.
WEIGHT:
Single axle = 21,600 pounds. Tandem axle = 34,200 pounds. Load per inch of tire width = 600 pounds. The total gross weight with load imposed on the highway by any vehicle or combination of vehicles where the distance between the first and last axles is less than 19 feet shall not exceed that given for the respective distances in the following table:
Distance in feet between first and last axles of group
Allowed load in pounds on group of axles
4
34,320
5
35,100
6
35,880
7
36,660
8
37,440
9
38,220
10
39,000
11
39,780
12
40,560
13
41,340
14
42,120
15
42,900
16
43,680
17
44,460
18
45,240
The total gross weight with load imposed on the highway by any vehicle or combination of vehicles where the distance between the first and last axles is 19 feet or more shall not exceed that given for the respective distances in the following table:
Distance in feet between first and last axles of group
Allowed load in pounds on group of axles
19
53,100
20
54,000
21
54,900
22
55,800
23
56,700
24
57,600
25
58,500
26
59,400
27
60,300
28
61,200
29
62,100
30
63,000
31
63,900
32
64,800
33
65,700
34
66,600
35
67,500
36
68,400
37
69,300
38
70,200
39
71,100
40
72,000
41
72,900
42
73,800
43
74,700
44
75,600
45
76,500
46
77,400
47
78,300
48
79,200
49
80,100
50
81,000
51
81,900
52
82,800
53
83,700
54
84,600
55
85,500
56 and over
86,400
The distance between the centers of the axles shall be measured to the nearest even foot. When a fraction is exactly one-half the next larger whole number shall be used.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
No special requirements beyond normal Federal Motor Carrier or State regulations. The maximum length of the trailing units is 28.5 feet.
PERMIT:
None Required.
ACCESS:
STAA vehicles must be allowed reasonable access in accordance with 23 CFR 658.19.
ROUTES: All Interstate highways.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
66-7-409 NMSA 1978
66-7-410 NMSA 1978

# STATE: NEW YORK

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 102 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 143,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The following information pertains to tandem trailer combinations with either trailer more than 28.5 feet long but not more than 48 feet long. A nine-axle combination vehicle may not exceed a total maximum gross weight of 143,000 pounds. An eight-axle combination vehicle may not exceed a total maximum gross weight of 138,400 pounds. The maximum gross weight that may be carried upon any combination of units is limited by the maximum gross weight that can be carried upon the axles as follows. For a nine-axle combination: Drive axles—36,000 pounds, axles four/five—36,000 pounds, axles six/seven—27,000 pounds, and axles eight/nine—36,000 pounds. A minimum 12-foot axle spacing between the fifth and sixth axles is also required on the nine-axle LCV. For an eight-axle combination: Drive axles—36,000 pounds, axles four/five—36,000 pounds, sixth axle—22,400 pounds, and axles seven/eight—36,000 pounds. The eight-axle LCV has no minimum axle-spacing requirements. For gross weights in excess of 138,400 pounds the combination must include a tandem-axle dolly to meet the nine-axle requirements. Maximum permissible gross weight for B-train combination is 127,000 pounds.
When the gross weight of the two trailers in a tandem combination vary more than 20 percent, the heaviest of the two must be placed in the lead position.
For tandem trailer combinations in which neither trailing unit exceeds 28.5 feet in length the following maximum allowable weights apply: for a single axle—28,000 pounds (except that steering axles may not exceed 22,400 pounds), for a tandem axle—42,500 pounds, for a tri-axle—52,500 pounds. The gross weight may not exceed 100,000 pounds or the manufacturers gross weight rating, whichever is lower.
DRIVER:
For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the New York State Thruway Authority (NYSTA), except for the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, the driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement, and hold a Tandem Trailer Driver's Permit issued by the NYSTA. In order to obtain an NYSTA driver's permit, an applicant must (1) hold a valid commercial driver's license with multiple-trailer endorsement; (2) be over 26 years old, in good health, and have at least 5 years of provable experience driving tractor-trailer combinations; and (3) meet all other application requirements with regard to driving history established by the NYSTA. Qualified drivers receive a Tandem Trailer Driver's Permit for Tandem Vehicle Operation which is valid only for the operation of the certified equipment owned by the company to which the permit is issued.
For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the New York State DOT, cities not wholly included in one county, the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, the driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicles operating on highways under the jurisdiction of the NYSTA, except for the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, must also meet the following additional requirements. The tractor manufacturer and the permittee shall certify to the NYSTA prior to the approval of the tractor that it is capable of hauling the maximum permissible gross load at a speed of
not less than 20 miles per hour on all portions of the thruway system.
The brakes on any vehicle, dolly converter, or combination of vehicles shall comply with 49 CFR part 393 and, in addition, any vehicle or dolly converter shall meet the provisions of the New York State Traffic Law.
Tandem trailer operations shall be equipped, at a minimum, with emergency equipment as required by 49 CFR part 393, subpart H, as amended, tire chains from October 15 to May 1 of each year, a fire extinguisher with an aggregate rating of 20BC, and each trailer with specific lamps and reflectors.
All tractors certified by the NYSTA for use with tandem trailers will be assigned an identification number by the NYSTA which must be placed on the vehicle. The number must be at least 3 inches in height and visible to a person standing at ground level opposite the driver's position in the cab.
Axle Type. Tractors to be used for hauling 110,000 pounds or more shall be equipped with tandem rear axles, both with driving power. Tractors to be used for hauling 110,000 pounds or less may have a single drive axle. Tandem combinations using single wheel tires commonly referred to as “Super Singles” are required to use triple-axle tractors, dual-axle trailers, and dual-axle dollies.
Dollies. Every converter dolly certified on and after June 1, 1968, used to convert a semitrailer to a full trailer may have either single or tandem axles at the option of the permittee. Single-axle dollies may not utilize low profile tires. Combination vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 138,400 pounds must have a tandem-axle dolly to meet the nine-axle requirement. If the distance between two semitrailers is 10 feet or more, the dolly shall be equipped with a device or the trailers connected along the sides with suitable material to indicate they are in effect one unit. The devices or connection shall be approved by the NYSTA prior to use on a tandem trailer combination. The NYSTA tandem-trailer provisions require that converter dollies shall be coupled with one or more safety chains or cables to the frame or an extension of the frame of the motor vehicle by which it is towed. Each dolly converter must also be equipped with mud flaps. Tandem combinations using a sliding fifth wheel attached to the lead trailer, known as a “B-Train” combination, will require a separate Thruway Engineer Service approval prior to the initial tandem run. Special provisions regarding B-Trains will be reviewed at the time of the application or request for use on the Thruway.
PERMIT:
For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the New York State DOT, cities not wholly included in one county, or the following highway sections under NYSTA jurisdiction; the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, a permit to exceed the weight limits set forth in section 385(15) of the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law must be obtained from the State DOT, city involved, or the NYSTA. A fee is charged for the permit.
For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the NYSTA, except for the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, companies must file an application for a Tandem Trailer Permit with the NYSTA. Permits are issued to such companies upon meeting qualifications, including insurance, for tandem combinations over 65 feet in length. No permit fee is charged; however, Thruway tolls are charged for each use of the Thruway, and the equipment must be certified by the NYSTA annually. The annual re-certification of equipment is handled by: New York State Thruway Authority, Manager of Traffic Safety Services, P.O. Box 189, Albany, New York 12201-0189
Transportation of hazardous materials is subject to special restrictions plus 49 CFR part 397 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations.
ACCESS:
For tandem trailer combinations with either trailer more than 28.5 feet long but not more than 48 feet long, the following access is available to authorized operating routes.
I-87 (New York Thruway) Access provided at Thruway Exit 21B to or from a point 1,500 feet north of the Thruway on US 9W.
I-90 (NYSTA-Berkshire Section) access provided at:
(1) Thruway Exit B-1 to or from a point 0.8 mile north of the southern most access ramp on US 9.
(2) Thruway Exit B-3 within a 2,000-foot radius of the Thruway ramps to NY 22.
I-90 (New York Thruway) access provided at:
(1) Thruway Exit 28 within a radius of 1,500 feet of the toll booth at Fultonville, New York.
(2) Thruway Exit 32 to or from a point 0.6 mile north of the Thruway along NY 233.
(3) Thruway Exit 44 to or from a point 0.8 mile from the Thruway along NY 332 and Collett Road.
(4) Thruway Exit 52 to or from:
(a) A point 1.7 miles west and south of the Thruway via Walden Avenue and NY 240 (Harlem Road);
(b) A point 0.85 mile east and south of the Thruway via Walden Avenue and a roadway purchased by the Town of Cheektowaga from Sorrento Cheese, Inc.
(5) Thruway Exit 54 to or from a point approximately 2.5 miles east and north of the Thruway via routes NY 400 and NY 277.
(6) Thruway Exit 56 to or from a point approximately 2 miles west and south of the Thruway via NY 179 and Old Mile Strip Road.
I-190 (NYSTA—Niagara Section) access provided at:
(1) Thruway Exit N1 to or from:
(a) A point 0.8 mile west of the Thruway exit along Dingens Street.
(b) A point 0.45 mile from the Thruway exit via Dingens Street and James E. Casey Drive.
(2) Thruway Exit N5 to or from a point approximately 1.0 miles south of the Thruway via Louisiana Street and South Street.
(3) Thruway Exit N15 to or from a point 0.5 mile southeast of the Thruway via NY 325 (Sheridan Drive) and Kenmore Avenue.
(4) Thruway Exit N17 to or from:
(a) A point 1.5 miles north of the Thruway on NY 266 (River Road).
(b) A point approximately 0.4 mile south of the Thruway on NY 266 (River Road).
Tandem trailer combinations in which neither trailing unit exceeds 28.5 feet in length are restricted to the Designated Qualifying and Access Highway System.
ROUTES: For tandem trailer combinations with either trailer more than 28.5 feet long, but not more than 48 feet long, the following routes are available:
From
To
I-87 (New York Thruway)
Bronx/Westchester County Line
Thruway Exit 24.
I-90 (New York Thruway)
Pennsylvania.
Thruway Exit 24.
I-90 (New York Thruway Berkshire Section)
Thruway Exit B-1
Massachusetts.
I-190 (New York Thruway Niagara Section)
Thruway Exit 53
Int'l Border with Canada.
NY 912M (Berkshire Connection of the New York Thruway)
Thruway Exit 21A
Thruway Exit B-1.
Tandem trailer combinations in which neither trailing unit exceeds 28.5 feet in length may operate on all NN Highways.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Public Authorities Law—Title 9, sec. 350, et. seq. (section 361 is most relevant)
New York State Thruway Authority Rules
Regulations, sections 100.6, 100.8, and 103.13
New York State Vehicle
Traffic Law, sections 385 and 1630

# STATE: NORTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 103 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) of any vehicle or combination of vehicles is determined by the Federal Bridge Formula, including the exception for two sets of tandems spaced 36 feet apart.
No single axle shall carry a gross weight in excess of 20,000 pounds. Axles spaced 40 inches or less apart are considered one axle. Axles spaced 8 feet or more apart are considered as individual axles. The gross weight of two individual axles may be restricted by the weight formula. Spacing between axles shall be measured from axle center to axle center.
Axles spaced over 40 inches but less than 8 feet apart shall not carry a gross weight in excess of 17,000 pounds per axle. The gross weight of three or more axles in a grouping is determined by the measurement between the extreme axle centers. During the spring breakup season or on otherwise posted highways, reductions in the above axle weights may be specified.
The weight in pounds on any one wheel shall not exceed one-half the allowable axle weight. Dual tires are considered one wheel.
The weight per inch of tire width shall not exceed 550 pounds. The width of tire shall be the manufacturer's rating.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The cargo length of a two trailing unit combination may not exceed 100 feet (when the power unit is a truck tractor) or 103 feet (when the power unit is a truck) when traveling on the NN or local highways designated by local authorities.
All hitches must be of a load-bearing capacity capable of bearing the weight of the towed vehicles. The towing vehicle must have a hitch commonly described as a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, or one that is attached to the frame.
The hitch on the rear of the vehicle connected to the towing vehicle must be attached to the frame of the towed vehicle. All hitches, other than a fifth wheel or gooseneck, must be of a ball and socket type with a locking device or a pintle hook.
The drawn vehicles shall be equipped with brakes and safety chains adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and hold, such vehicles. When the drawn vehicle is of a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, safety chains are not required.
In any truck or truck tractor and two trailer combination, the lighter trailer must always be operated as the rear trailer, except when the gross weight differential with the other trailer does not exceed 5,000 pounds.
The power unit shall have adequate power and traction to maintain a minimum speed of 15 miles per hour on all grades.
PERMIT:
No permits are required for GVW of 80,000 pounds or less. Single-trip permits are required for GVW exceeding 80,000 pounds. Weather restrictions (37-06-04-06, NDAC), weight distribution on trailers (37-06-04, NDAC), and signing requirements (37-06-04-05, NDAC) are applicable.
Movements of LCV's are prohibited when:
1. Road surfaces, due to ice, snow, slush, or frost present a slippery condition which may be hazardous to the operation of the unit or to other highway users;
2. Wind or other conditions may cause the unit or any part thereof to swerve, whip, sway, or fail to follow substantially in the path of the towing vehicle; or
3. Visibility is reduced due to snow, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke.
The North Dakota Highway Patrol may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when in its judgment traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make travel unsafe.
The last trailer in any combination must have a “LONG LOAD” sign mounted on the rear. It must be a minimum of 12 inches in height and 60 inches in length. The lettering must be 8 inches in height with 1-inch brush strokes. The letters must be black on a yellow background.
Legal width—8 feet 6 inches on all highways.
Legal height—13 feet 6 inches.
ACCESS:
Access for vehicles with cargo-carrying length of 68 feet or more is 10 miles off the NN. Vehicles with a cargo-carrying length less than 68 feet may travel on all highways in North Dakota.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: North Dakota Century Code, section 38-12-04; North Dakota Administrative Code, article 37-06.

# STATE: NORTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 100 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the ND-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the ND-TT2 combination, and in addition, in any combination with three trailing units the lightest trailer must always be operated as the rear trailer. For the first two trailing units the lighter trailer must always be second except when the gross weight differential with the other trailer does not exceed 5,000 pounds.

# ROUTES: Same as the ND-TT2 combination.

# LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the ND-TT2 combination.

# STATE: NORTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer, and Truck-trailer-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 103 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the ND-TT2 combination.

# ROUTES: Same as the ND-TT2 combination.

# LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the ND-TT2 combination.

# STATE: OHIO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 102 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 127,400 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Long double combination vehicles are only allowed on that portion of Ohio's Interstate System which is under the jurisdiction of the Ohio Turnpike Commission (OTC). These same vehicles are not allowed on any portion of the Interstate System under the jurisdiction of the Ohio DOT.
WEIGHT:
The OTC has established the following provisions for operation:
Maximum Weight: Single axle = 21,000 pounds; tandem axle spaced 4 feet or less apart = 24,000 pounds; tandem axle spaced more than 4 feet but less than 8 feet apart = 34,000 pounds; gross weight for doubles 90 feet or less in length = 90,000 pounds; gross weight for doubles over 90 feet but less than 112 feet in length = 127,400 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement, be over 26 years of age, in good health, and shall have not less than 5 years of experience driving tractor-trailer or tractor-short double trailer motor vehicles. Such driving experience shall include experience throughout the four seasons. Drivers must
comply with the applicable current requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations, and the Economic and Safety regulations of the Ohio Public Utility Commission.
VEHICLE:
Vehicles being operated under permit at night must be equipped with all lights and reflectors required by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, except that the trailer shall be equipped with two red tail lights and two red or amber stop lights mounted with one set on each side. Trailer and semitrailer length for doubles cannot exceed 48 feet, and mixed trailer length combinations are not allowed for combination vehicles over 90 feet in length. Combined cargo-carrying length, including the trailer hitch, cannot be less than 80 feet or more than 102 feet. The number of axles on a double shall be a minimum of five and a maximum of nine. A tractor used in the operation of a double shall be capable of hauling the maximum weight at a speed of not less than 40 miles per hour on all portions of the Turnpike.
PERMIT:
A special permit is required if the vehicle is over 102 inches wide, 14 feet high, or 65 feet in length including overhang. Tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combinations require a permit if over 75 feet in length, excluding an allowed 3-foot front overhang and a 4-foot rear overhang. For vehicles over 120 inches wide, 14 feet high, or 80 feet long or if any unit of the combination vehicle is over 60 feet in length, travel is restricted to daylight hours Monday through noon Saturday, except holidays and the day before and after holidays. Operators are restricted to daylight driving if the load overhang is more than 4 feet. A “Long Double Trailer Permit” issued by the OTC is required for operation of doubles in excess of 90 feet in length. Towing units and coupling devices shall have sufficient structural strength to ensure safe operation. Vehicles and coupling devices shall be so designed, constructed, and installed in a double as to ensure that any towed vehicles when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side of the path of the towing vehicle when the latter is moving in a straight line. Vehicle coupling devices and brakes shall meet the requirements of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. The distance between the rearmost axle of a semitrailer and the front axle of the next semitrailer in a coupled double unit shall not exceed 12 feet 6 inches. In no event shall the distance between the semitrailers coupled in a double exceed 9 feet. Double and triple trailer combinations must be equipped with adequate, properly maintained spray-suppressant mud flaps on all axles except the steering axle. In the event that the gross weights of the trailers vary by more than 20 percent, they shall be coupled according to their gross weights with the heavier trailer forward. A minimum distance of 500 feet shall be maintained between double units and/or triple units except when overtaking and passing another vehicle. A double shall remain in the right-hand, outside lane except when passing or when emergency or work-zone conditions exist. When, in the opinion of the OTC, the weather conditions are such that operation of a double is inadvisable, the OTC will notify the permittee that travel is prohibited for a certain period of time.
Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; and Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material cannot be transported in double trailer combinations. Other hazardous materials may be transported in one trailer of a double. The hazardous materials should be placed in the front trailer unless doing so will result in the second trailer weighing more than the first trailer.
ACCESS:
Tandem trailer units shall not leave the Turnpike right-of-way and shall be assembled and disassembled only in designated areas located at Exits 4, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 16.
Routes
From
To
I-76 Ohio Turnpike
Turnpike Exit 15
Pennsylvania.
I-80 Ohio Turnpike
Turnpike Exit 8A
Turnpike Exit 15.
I-80/90 Ohio Turnpike
Indiana
Turnpike Exit 8A.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Statutory authority, as contained in Chapter 5537 of the Ohio Revised Code, to regulate the dimensions and weights of vehicles using the Turnpike.

# STATE: OHIO

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 115,000 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the OH-TT2 combination, except as follows below, and triple trailer units may operate on any “turnpike project” as defined in Ohio Revised Code (ORC) section 5537.01 and permitted by the Ohio Turnpike and Infrastructure Commission under the program authorized in ORC 5537.16 (The Ohio Turnpike Act of 1949 and as amendedand effective prior to June 1, 1991).
WEIGHT:
Gross weight for triples with an overall length greater than 90 feet but not over 105 feet in length = 115,000 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement, be over 26 years of age, in good health, and shall have not less than 5 years of experience driving double trailer combination units. Such driving experience shall include experience throughout the four seasons. Each driver must have special training on triple combinations to be provided by the Permittee.
VEHICLE:
Triple trailer combination vehicles are allowed to operate on the Turnpike provided the combination vehicle is at least 90 feet long but less than 105 feet long and each trailer is not more than 28.5 feet in length. The minimum number of axles on the triple shall be seven and the maximum is nine.
PERMIT:
A triple trailer permit to operate on the Turnpike is required for triple trailer combinations in excess of 90 feet in length. There is an annual fee for the permit. Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; and Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material cannot be transported in triple trailer combinations. Other hazardous materials may be transported in two trailers of a triple. The hazardous materials should be placed in the front two trailers unless doing so will result in the third trailer weighing more than either one of the lead trailers. In addition, under ORC 4513 .34, ODOT and local authorities are authorized to issue special permits for oversized vehicles.
ACCESS:
With two exceptions, triple trailer units shall not leave the Turnpike Project. The first exception is that triple trailer combinations are allowed on State Route 21 from I-80 Exit 11 (Ohio Turnpike) to a terminal located approximately 500 feet to the north in the town of Richfield. The second exception is for a segment of State Route 7 from Ohio Turnpike Exit 16 to 1 mile south. Triple trailer units shall not leave the Turnpike project. Section 5537.01, as discussed above defines “turnpike project” as: “(B) “Project” or “turnpike project” means . . . interchanges, entrance plazas, approaches, those portions of connecting public roads that serve interchanges and are determined by the commission and the director of transportation to be necessary for the safe merging of traffic between the turnpike project and those public roads, . . .”
Routes
From
To
I-76 Ohio Turnpike
Turnpike Exit 15
Pennsylvania.
I-80 Ohio Turnpike
Turnpike Exit 8A
Turnpike Exit 15.
I-80/90 Ohio Turnpike
Indiana
Turnpike Exit 8A.
OH-7
Turnpike Exit 16
Extending 1 mile south.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the OH-TT2 combination.

# STATE: OKLAHOMA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 110 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 90,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Single axle = 20,000 pounds; tandem axle = 34,000 pounds; gross vehicle weight = 90,000 pounds. The total weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles shall not exceed the amounts shown in Table 1.
Table 1—Oklahoma Allowable Axle Group Weight
Axle Spacing (ft)
Maximum load (lbs) by axle group
2 Axles
3 Axles
4 Axles
5 Axles
6 Axles
4
34,000
5
34,000
6
34,000
7
34,000
8
34,000
42,000
9
39,000
42,500
10
40,000
43,500
11
44,000
12
45,000
50,000
13
45,500
50,500
14
46,500
51,500
15
47,000
52,000
16
48,000
52,500
58,000
17
48,500
53,500
58,500
18
49,500
54,000
59,000
19
50,000
54,500
60,000
20
51,000
55,500
60,500
66,000
21
51,500
56,000
61,000
66,500
22
52,500
56,500
61,500
67,000
23
53,000
57,500
62,500
68,000
24
54,000
58,000
63,000
68,500
25
54,500
58,500
63,500
69,000
26
56,000
59,500
64,000
69,500
27
57,500
60,000
65,000
70,000
28
59,000
60,500
65,500
71,000
29
60,500
61,500
66,000
71,500
30
62,000
62,000
66,500
72,000
31
63,500
63,500
67,000
72,500
32
64,000
64,000
68,000
73,500
33
64,500
68,500
74,000
34
65,000
69,000
74,500
35
66,000
70,000
75,000
36
68,000
70,500
75,500
37
68,000
71,000
76,000
38
69,000
72,000
77,000
39
70,000
72,500
77,500
40
71,000
73,000
78,000
41
72,000
73,500
78,500
42
73,000
74,000
79,000
43
73,280
75,000
80,000
44
73,280
75,500
80,500
45
73,280
76,000
81,000
46
73,280
76,500
81,500
47
73,500
77,500
82,000
48
74,000
78,000
82,000
49
74,500
78,500
83,500
50
75,500
79,000
84,000
51
76,000
80,000
84,500
52
76,500
80,500
85,000
53
77,500
81,000
86,000
54
78,000
81,500
86,500
55
78,500
82,500
87,000
56
79,500
83,000
87,500
57
80,000
83,500
88,000
58
84,000
89,000
59
85,000
89,500
60
85,500
90,000
DRIVER:
All drivers must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement and must meet the requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (49 CFR parts 390-397). State requirements more stringent and not in conflict with Federal requirements take precedence.
VEHICLE:
All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicles and load shall not exceed 102 inches in width on the Interstate System and four-lane divided highways. Maximum semitrailer length is 53 feet.
Multiple trailer combinations must be stable at all times during braking and normal operation. A multiple trailer combination when traveling on a level, smooth, paved surface must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Heavier trailers are to be placed to the front in multiple trailer combinations.
PERMIT:
An annual special authorization permit is required for tandem trailer vehicles operating on the Interstate System having a gross weight of more than 80,000 pounds. A fee is charged for the special authorization permit.
ACCESS:
Access is allowed from legally available routes (listed below) to service facilities and terminals within a 5-mile radius. Access is also authorized on two-lane roadways which connect multi-lane divided highways when such connection does not exceed 15 miles.
ROUTES: Doubles with 29-foot trailers may use any route on the NN. Doubles with at least one trailer or semitrailer over 29 feet in length are limited to the Interstate and other multi-lane divided highways listed below.
From
To
I-35
Texas
Kansas.
I-40
Texas
Arkansas.
I-44
Texas
Missouri.
I-235
Entire length in Oklahoma City
I-240
Entire length in Oklahoma City
I-244
Entire length in Tulsa
I-444
Entire length in Tulsa
I-40 Bus
I-40 Exit 119
US 81 El Reno.
US 60
I-35 Exit 214
US 177 Ponca City.
US 62
US 69 Muskogee
OK 80 Ft. Gibson.
US 62
I-44 Exit 39A Lawton
OK 115 Cache.
US 64
Cimarron Turnpike
I-244 Tulsa.
US 64
I-35 Exit 186 Perry
US 77 Perry.
US 64
I-40 Exit 325 Roland
Arkansas.
US 69
Texas
I-44 (Will Rogers Tpk.) Exit 282.
US 70
OK 76 Wilson
I-35 Exits 31A-B Ardmore.
US 75
I-40 Exits 240A-B Henryetta
I-244 Exit 2 Tulsa.
US 75
I-44 Exits 6A-B Tulsa
Dewey.
US 77
I-35 Exit 141 Edmond
3.5 mi. W of I-35.
US 81
I-44 (Bailey Tpk.) Exit 80
South Intersection OK 7 Duncan.
US 81
OK 51 Hennessey
11.5 mi. N of US 412.
US 169
OK 51 Tulsa
OK 20 Collinsville.
US 270
Indian Nation Tpk. Exit 4
US 69 McAlester.
US 270
OK 9 Tecumseh
I-40 Exit 181.
US 271
Texas
Indian Nation Tpk. Hugo.
US 412
I-44 Exit 241 Catoosa
US 69.
US 412
OK 58 Ringwood
I-35 Exits 194A-B.
US 412
US 69 Chouteau
OK 412 B.
OK 3
I-44 Exit 123
Oklahoma/Canadian County Line.
OK 3A
OK 3 Oklahoma City
I-44 Exit 125B Oklahoma City.
OK 7
I-44 Exits 36A-B
OK 65 Pumpkin Center.
OK 7
I-35 Exit 55
US 177 Sulphur.
OK 7
South intersection US 81 Duncan
7.5 mi. E of US 81.
OK 9
I-35 Exit 108A
US 77 Norman.
OK 11
I-35 Exit 222
US 177 Blackwell.
OK 11
US 75 Tulsa
I-244 Exit 12B.
OK 33
US 77 Guthrie
I-35 Exit 157 Guthrie.
OK 51
I-35 Exit 174
US 177 Stillwater.
OK 51
I-44 Exit 231 Tulsa
Muskogee Tpk. Broken Arrow.
OK 165
Connecting two sections of the Muskogee Turnpike at Muskogee
OK 165
US 64/Bus. US 64 Muskogee
Muskogee Tpk.
Cimarron Tpk
I-35 Exit 194
US 64.
Cimarron Tpk Conn
US 177 Stillwater
Cimarron Tpk.
Indian Nation Turnpike
US 70/271 Hugo
I-40 Exits 240A-B Henryetta.
Muskogee Tpk
OK 51 Broken Arrow
US 62/OK 165 Muskogee.
Muskogee Tpk
OK 165 Muskogee
I-40 Exit 286 Webber's Falls.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Title 47 1981 O.S. 14-101
Title 47 1990 O.S. 14-103, -109, and -116
DPS Size and Weight Permit Manual 595:30.

# STATE: OKLAHOMA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 90,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT and ACCESS:
Same as the OK-TT2 combination.
DRIVER:
Same as the OK-TT2 combination except that in addition, a driver of a three trailing unit combination must have had at least 2 years of experience driving tractor-trailer combinations.
VEHICLE:
All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicle and load shall not exceed 102 inches in width on the Interstate System and other four-lane divided highways. Maximum unit length of triple trailers is 29 feet. Truck tractors pulling triple trailers must have sufficient horsepower to maintain a minimum speed of 40 miles per hour on the level and 20 miles per hour on grades under normal operation conditions. Heavy-duty fifth wheels, pick-up plates equal in strength to the fifth wheel, solid kingpins, no-slack hitch connections, mud flaps and splash guards, and full-width axles are required on triple trailer combinations. All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements.
Multiple trailer combinations must be stable at all times during braking and normal operation. A multiple trailer combination when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Heavier trailers are to be placed to the front in multiple trailer combinations.
PERMIT:
An annual special combination permit is required for the operation of triple-trailer combinations on the Interstate System and other four-lane divided primary highways. This permit also authorizes such combinations to exceed 80,000 pounds on the Interstate System.
The permit holder must certify that the driver of a triple-trailer combination is qualified. Operators of triple-trailer combinations must maintain a 500-foot following distance and must drive in the right lane, except when passing or in an emergency.
Speed shall be reduced and extreme caution exercised when operating triple-trailer combinations under hazardous conditions, such as those caused by snow, wind, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke. When conditions become sufficiently dangerous, as determined by the company or driver, operations shall be discontinued and shall not resume until the vehicle can be safely operated. The State may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when, in the State's judgment, traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make such operations unsafe or inadvisable.
Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material; and any other material deemed to be unduly hazardous by the U.S. Department of Transportation cannot be transported in triple-trailer combinations.
A fee is charged for the annual special authorization permit.
ROUTES: Same as the OK-TT2 combination.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Title 47 1981 O.S. 14-101
Title 47 1990 O.S. 14-109, -116, -121
DPS Size and Weight Permit Manual 595:30.

# STATE: OREGON

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 68 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Maximum allowable weights are as follows: single wheel—10,000 pounds, single
axle—20,000 pounds, tandem axle—34,000 pounds. Gross vehicle weights over 80,000 pounds must follow the Oregon extended weight table, with a maximum of 105,500 pounds. Weight is also limited to 600 pounds per inch of tire width.

# EXTENDED WEIGHT TABLE
Gross weights over 80,000 pounds are authorized only when operating under the authority of a Special Transportation Permit.

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE WEIGHTS
1. The maximum allowable weights for single axles and tandem axles shall not exceed those specified under ORS 818.010.
2. The maximum allowable weight for groups of axles spaced at 46 feet or less apart shall not exceed those specified under ORS 818.010.
3. The maximum weights for groups of axles spaced at 47 feet or more and the gross combined weight for any combination of vehicles shall not exceed those set forth in the following table:
Axle spacing in feet
Maximum gross weight in pounds on
5 Axles
6 Axles
7 Axles
8 or More axles
47
77,500
81,000
81,000
81,000
48
78,000
82,000
82,000
82,000
49
78,500
83,000
83,000
83,000
50
79,000
84,000
84,000
84,000
51
80,000
84,500
85,000
85,000
52
80,500
85,000
86,000
86,000
53
81,000
86,000
87,000
87,000
54
81,500
86,500
88,000
91,000
55
82,500
87,000
89,000
92,000
56
83,000
87,500
90,000
93,000
57
83,500
88,000
91,000
94,000
58
84,000
89,000
92,000
95,000
59
85,000
89,500
93,000
96,000
60
85,500
90,000
94,000
97,000
61
86,000
90,500
95,000
98,000
62
87,000
91,000
96,000
99,000
63
87,500
92,000
97,000
100,000
64
88,000
92,500
97,500
101,000
65
88,500
93,000
98,000
102,000
66
89,000
93,500
98,500
103,000
67
90,000
94,000
99,000
104,000
68
90,000
95,000
99,500
105,000
69
90,000
95,500
100,000
105,500
70
90,000
96,000
101,000
105,500
71
90,000
96,500
101,500
105,000
72
90,000
96,500
102,000
105,500
73
90,000
96,500
102,500
105,500
74
90,000
96,500
103,000
105,500
75
90,000
96,500
104,000
105,500
76
90,000
96,500
104,500
105,500
77
90,000
96,500
105,000
105,500
78
90,000
96,500
105,500
105,500
Distance measured to nearest foot; when exactly one-half foot, take next larger number.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
For a combination which includes a truck tractor and two trailing units, the lead trailing unit (semitrailer) may be up to 40 feet long. The second trailing unit may be up to 35 feet long. However, the primary control is the total cargo-carrying distance which has a maximum length of 68 feet. Any towed vehicles in a combination must be equipped with safety chains or cables to prevent the towbar from dropping to the ground in the event the coupling fails. The chains or cables must have sufficient strength to control the towed vehicle in the event the coupling device fails and must be attached with no more slack than necessary to permit proper turning. However, this requirement does not apply to a fifth-wheel coupling if the upper and lower halves of the fifth wheel must be manually released before they can be separated.
PERMIT:
A permit is required for operation if the gross combination weight exceeds 80,000 pounds. A fee is charged. Permitted movements must have the lighter trailing unit placed to the rear, and use splash and spray devices when operating in rainy weather. Movement is not allowed when road surfaces are hazardous due to ice or snow, or when other atmospheric conditions make travel unsafe.
ACCESS:
As allowed by the Oregon DOT.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS: ORS 810.010, ORS 810.030 through 810.060, and ORS 818.010 through 818.235.

# STATE: OREGON

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 96 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the OR-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Trailing units must be of reasonably uniform in length. The overall length of the combination is limited to 105 feet. Any towed vehicles in a combination must be equipped with safety chains or cables to prevent the towbar from dropping to the ground in the event the coupling fails. The chains or cables must have sufficient strength to control the towed vehicle in the event the coupling device fails and must be attached with no more slack than necessary to permit proper turning. However, this requirement does not apply to a fifth-wheel coupling if the upper and lower halves of the fifth wheel must be manually released before they can be separated.
ROUTES: The following NN routes are also open to truck tractor and three trailing unit combinations.
From
To
I-5
California
Washington.
I-105
Entire length in the Eugene-Springfield area
I-205
Jct. I-5
Washington.
I-405
Entire length in Portland
I-82
Washington
Jct. I-84.
I-84
Jct. I-5
Idaho.
US 20
Jct OR 22/OR 126 Santiam Junction
US 26 Vale.
US 20
East Jct OR 99E Albany
I-5 Exit 233.
US 26
US 101 Cannon Beach Junction
OR 126 Prineville.
US 20/26
Vale
Idaho.
US 30
US 101 Astoria
I-405 Exit 3 Portland.
US 95
Nevada
Idaho.
SPUR US 95
OR 201
Idaho.
US 97
California
Washington.
US 101
US 30 Astoria
US 26 Cannon Beach Jct.
US 101
OR 18 Otis
US 20 Newport.
US 101
Bandon
North city limit Coos Bay.
US 197
I-84 Exit 87 The Dalles
Washington.
US 395
I-82 Exit 1 Umatilla
I-84 Exit 188 Stanfield.
US 395
US 26 John Day
OR 140 Lakeview.
US 730
I-84 Exit 168
Washington.
OR 6
US 101 Tillamook
US 26 near Banks.
OR 8
OR 47 Forest Grove
OR 217 Beaverton.
OR 11
Washington
Mission Cutoff near Pendleton.
OR 18
US 101 Otis
OR 99W Dayton.
OR 19
I-84 Exit 137
South 2.5 miles.
OR 22
OR 18 near Willamena
OR 99E Salem.
OR 22
I-5 Exit 253
Jct US 20/OR 126 Santiam Jct.
OR 31
US 97 La Pine
US 395 Valley Falls.
OR 34
Jct US 20/OR 99W Corvallis
I-5 Exit 228.
OR 35
I-84 Exit 64
Mt. Hood Hood River.
OR 39
OR 140 East of Klamath Falls
California.
OR 58
I-5 Exit 188 Goshen
US 97 near Chemult.
OR 62
OR 99 Medford
OR 140 White City.
OR 78
Jct US 20/ US 395 Burns
US 95 Burns Junction.
OR 99
I-5 Exit 58 Grants Pass
I-5 Exit 48 Rogue River.
OR 99
I-5 Exit 192 Eugene
Jct OR 99E/ OR 99W Junction City.
OR 99E
I-5 Exit 307 Portland
I-205 Exit 9 Oregon City.
OR 99E
I-5 Exit 233 Albany
Tangent.
OR 99E
OR 228 Halsey
Harrisburg.
OR 99W
Jct US 20/OR 34 Corvallis
I-5 Exit 294 Portland.
OR 126
US 20 Sisters
US 26 Prineville.
OR 138
I-5 Exit 136 Sutherlin
East 2 miles.
OR 140
OR 62 White City
Jct US 97/OR 66 Klamath Falls.
OR 201
Jct US 20/US 26
SPUR US 95 Cairo Junction.
OR 207
I-84 Exit 182
OR 74 Lexington.
OR 207/OR 74
Jct OR 207/OR 74 Lexington
Jct OR 207/ OR 74/OR 206 Heppner.
OR 212
I-205 Exit 12
US 26 Boring.
OR 214
I-5 Exit 271 Woodburn
OR 99E Woodburn.
OR 217
I-5 Exit 292 Tigard
US 26 Beaverton.
OR 224
OR 99E Milwaukie
I-205 Exit 13.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the OR-TT2 combination.

# STATE: OREGON

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 70 feet, 5 inches.

# WEIGHT: This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.

# DRIVER, ACCESS, ROUTES, AND LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as OR-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
The truck or trailer may be up to 40 feet long not to exceed 75 feet overall. The truck may have a built-in hoist to load cargo. Any towed vehicle in a combination must be equipped with safety chains or cables to prevent the towbar from dropping to the ground in the event the coupling fails. The chains or cables must have sufficient strength to control the towed vehicle in the event the coupling device fails and must be attached with no more slack than necessary to permit proper turning. However, this requirement does not apply to a fifth-wheel coupling if the upper and lower halves of the fifth wheel must be manually released before they can be separated.

# PERMIT: No overlength permit required.

# STATE: PENNSYLVANIA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 57 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
The maximum gross weight is 100,000 pounds.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
A semitrailer, or the trailer of a tandem trailer combination, may not be longer than 28
1/2
feet. A tandem combination—including the truck tractor, semitrailer and trailer—which exceeds 85 feet in length is considered a Class 9 vehicle which requires a special permit to travel on the Turnpike System. In tandem combinations, the heaviest trailer shall be towed next to the truck tractor.
PERMIT:
None required except for a Class 9 vehicle.
Routes
From
To
I-76 Pennsylvania Turnpike Mainline
Ohio
Turnpike Exit 75.
I-76/1-70 Pennsylvania Turnpike Mainline
Turnpike Exit 75
Turnpike Exit 161.
I-76 Pennsylvania Turnpike Mainline
Turnpike Exit 161
Turnpike Exit 326.
1-276 Pennsylvania Turnpike Mainline
Turnpike Exit 326
I-95 Interchange.
I-95 interchange Pennsylvania Turnpike Mainline
I-95 Interchange
New Jersey.
I-476 Pennsylvania Turnpike Northeastern Extension
Turnpike Exit 20
Turnpike Exit 131.
I-376 Pennsylvania Turnpike Beaver Valley Expressway
Turnpike Exit 15
Turnpike Exit 31.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 66 Greensburg Bypass
Turnpike Exit 0
Turnpike Exit 14.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 43 Mon/Fayette Expressway (I-68 to Route 43)
West Virginia
Turnpike Exit M8.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 43 Mon/Fayette Expressway (Uniontown to Brownsville)
Turnpike Exit M 15
Turnpike Exit M28.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 43 Mon/Fayette Expressway (US-40 to PA-51)
Turnpike Exit M30
Turnpike Exit M54.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 43 Mon/Fayette Expressway (PA-51 to I-376/Monroeville)
Turnpike Exit M54
I-376/Monroeville.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 576 Southern Beltway (I-376 to US-22)
Turnpike Exit S1
Turnpike Exit S6.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 576 Southern Beltway (US-22 to I-79)
Turnpike Exit S6
I-79.
Pennsylvania Turnpike 576 Southern Beltway (I-79 to Mon/Fayette Expressway)
I-79
Pennsylvania Turnpike 43 Mon/Fayette Expressway.
LEGAL CITATIONS:
Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S. § 6110(a); Pennsylvania Code, 67 Pa. Code, Chapter 601.
State:
South Dakota.
Combination:
Truck tractor and two trailing units—LCV.
Length of Cargo-Carrying Units:
100 feet.
Maximum Allowable Gross Weight:
129,000 pounds.
Operational Conditions:
Weight:
For all combinations, the maximum gross weight on two or more consecutive axles is limited by the Federal Bridge Formula but cannot exceed 129,000 pounds. The weight on single axles or tandem axles spaced 40 inches or less apart may not exceed 20,000 pounds. Tandem axles spaced more than 40 inches but 96 inches or less may not exceed 34,000 pounds. Two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and last axles of the tandems is 36 feet or more. The weight on the steering axle may not exceed 600 pounds per inch of tire width.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 81.5 feet the following additional regulations also apply. The weight on all axles (other than the steering axle) may not exceed 500 pounds per inch of tire width. Lift axles and belly axles are not considered load-carrying axles and will not count when determining allowable vehicle weight.
Driver:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
Vehicle:
For all combinations, a semitrailer or trailer may neither be longer than nor weigh 3,000 pounds more than the trailer located immediately in front of it. Towbars longer than 19 feet must be flagged during daylight hours and lighted at night.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less, neither trailer may exceed 45 feet, including load overhang. Vehicles may be 12 feet wide when hauling baled feed during daylight hours.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 81.5 feet long, neither trailer may exceed 48 feet, including load overhang. Loading the rear of the trailer heavier than the front is not allowed. All axles except the steering axle require dual tires. Axles spaced 8 feet or less apart must weigh within 500 pounds of each other. The trailer hitch offset
may not exceed 6 feet. The maximum effective rear trailer overhang may not exceed 35 percent of the trailer's wheelbase. The power unit must have sufficient power to maintain 40 miles per hour. A “LONG LOAD” sign measuring 18 inches high by 7 feet long with black on yellow lettering 10 inches high is required on the rear. Offtracking is limited to 8.75 feet for a turning radius of 161 feet.
Offtracking Formula = 161−[161
2
−(L
1
2
+ L
2
2
+ L
3
2
+ L
4
2
+ L
5
2
+ L
6
2
+ L
7
2
+ L
8
2
)]
1/2

# Note.
L
1
through L
8
are measurements between points of articulation or vehicle pivot points. Squared dimensions to stinger steer points of articulation are negative. For two trailing unit combinations where at least one trailer is 45 feet long or longer, all the dimensions used to calculate offtracking must be written in the “Permit Restriction” area of the permit along with the offtracking value derived from the calculation.
Permit:
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less, a single-trip permit is required for movement on the Interstate System if the gross vehicle weight exceeds 80,000 pounds. An annual or single-trip permit is required for hauling baled feed over 102 inches wide.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 81.5 feet, a single-trip permit is required for all movements. Operations must be discontinued when roads are slippery due to moisture, visibility must be good, and wind conditions must not cause trailer whip or sway.
For all combinations, a fee is charged for any permit.
Access:
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less, access is statewide off the NN unless restricted by the South Dakota DOT.
For combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 81.5 feet, access to operating routes must be approved by the South Dakota DOT.
Routes:
Combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less may use all NN routes. Combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 81.5 feet, are restricted to the Interstate System and:
Highway
From
To
US12
North Dakota State Line
Jct I-29 at Summit.
US14
Jct US83 at Ft. Pierre
Jct US14B in Pierre.
US14
Jct US14B east of Pierre
W Jct US14 Bypass at Brookings.
US14B
Jct US14 in Pierre
Jct US14 east of Pierre.
US14B
W Jct US14 at Brookings
Jct I-29 Exit 133 at Brookings.
US16B
Jct SD79 south of Rapid City
Jct I-90 at Rapid City.
US18
E Jct US18B at Hot Springs
Jct US385 at Oelrichs.
US18B
W Jct US18 at Hot Springs
E Jct US18 at Hot Springs.
US212
Wyoming State Line
Jct US85 at Belle Fourche.
US212
W Jct US83 west of Gettysburg
E Jct US83 west of Gettysburg.
US212
W Jct US281 in Redfield
E Jct US281 in Redfield.
US281
Jct I-90 Exit 310 at Plankinton
S Jct US14 west of Huron.
US281
Jct US14 north of Wolsey
W Jct US212 in Redfield.
US281
E Jct US212 in Redfield
North Dakota State Line.
US83
Jct I-90 near Vivian
Jct US14 at Ft. Pierre.
US83
Jct US14 east of Pierre
W Jct US212 west of Gettysburg.
US83
E Jct US212 west of Gettysburg
Jct US12 south of Selby.
US83
Jct US12 west of Selby
North Dakota State Line.
US85
I-90 Exit 10 at Spearfish
North Dakota State Line.
SD34
W Jct SD37
E Jct SD37.
SD37
Jct I-90 at Mitchell
E Jct SD34.
SD37
W Jct SD34
Jct US14 at Huron.
SD50
Burleigh Street in Yankton
Jct I-29 Exit 26.
SD79
Jct US18
US385 at Oelrichs
Jct US16B south of Rapid City.
Legal Citations: SDCL 32-22-8.1, -38, -39, -41, -42, and -52; and Administrative Rules 70:03:01:37,:47,:48, and:60 through:70.

# STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 100 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination, except trailer lengths are limited to 28.5 feet, including load overhang, and the overall length cannot exceed 110 feet, including load overhang.
ROUTES: Same as the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length over 81.5 feet.
LEGAL CITATIONS: SDCL 32-22-14.14, -38, -39, -42, and -52; and Administrative Rules 70:03:01:60 through :70.

# STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck-Trailer

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 73 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, and PERMIT:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination except that in addition, the overall length including load overhang is limited to 80 feet. Trailer length is not limited.
ACCESS:
Same as the access provisions for the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less.
ROUTES: Same as the route provisions for the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less.
LEGAL CITATIONS: SDCL 32-22-8.1, -38, -39, -41, -42, and -52; and Administrative Rules 70:03:01:37, :47, and :48.

# STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA

# COMBINATION: Truck-Trailer

# LENGTH OF CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 78 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, and PERMIT:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Same as the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length over 81.5 feet, except that in addition, the overall length is limited to 85 feet.
ACCESS:
Same as the access provisions for the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length greater than 81.5 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the route provisions for the SD-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length greater than 81.5 feet.
LEGAL CITATIONS: SDCL 32-22-38, -39, -42, and -52; and Administrative Rules 70:03:01:60 through :70.

# STATE: UTAH

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Weight limits are as follows:
Single axle: 20,000 pounds
Tandem axle: 34,000 pounds
Gross weight: 129,000 pounds
Vehicles must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula
Tire loading on vehicles requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not exceed 500 pounds per inch of tire width for tires 11 inches wide and greater, and 450 pounds per inch of tire width for tires less than 11 inches wide as designated by the tire manufacturer on the side wall of the tire. Tire loading on vehicles not requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not exceed 600 pounds per inch of tire width as designated by the tire manufacturer on the sidewall.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. Carriers must certify that their drivers have a safe driving record and have passed a road test administered by a qualified safety supervisor.
VEHICLE:
While in transit, no trailer shall be positioned ahead of another trailer which carries an appreciably heavier load. An empty trailer shall not precede a loaded trailer. Vehicles shall be powered to operate on level terrain at speeds compatible with other traffic. They must be able to maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour under normal operating conditions on any grade of 5 percent or less over which the combination is operated and be able to resume a speed of 20 miles per hour after stopping on any such grade, except in extreme weather conditions.
Oversize signs are required on vehicles in excess of 75 feet in length on two-lane highways.
A heavy-duty fifth wheel is required. All fifth wheels must be clean and lubricated with a light-duty grease prior to each trip. The fifth wheel must be located in a position which provides adequate stability. Pick-up plates must be of equal strength to the fifth wheel. The kingpin must be of a solid type and permanently fastened. Screw-out or folding-type kingpins are prohibited.
All hitch connections must be of a no-slack type, preferably a power-actuated ram. Air-actuated hitches which are isolated from the primary air transmission system are recommended.
The drawbar length should be the practical minimum consistent with the clearances required between trailers for turning and backing maneuvers.
Axles must be those designed for the width of the body.
All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements. In addition, fast air transmission and release valves must be provided on all semitrailer and converter-dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a “slippery road” valve, may be provided on the steering axle. Anti-sail type mud flaps are recommended.
The use of single tires on any combination vehicle requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not be allowed on single axles. A single axle is defined as one having more than 8 feet between it and the nearest axle or group of axles on the vehicle.
When traveling on a level, smooth paved surface, the trailing units must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Each combination shall maintain a minimum distance of 500 feet from another commercial vehicle traveling in the same direction on the same highway. Loads shall be securely fastened to the transporter with material and devices of sufficient strength to prevent the load from becoming loose, detached, dangerously displaced, or in any manner a hazard to other highway users. The components of the load shall be reinforced or bound securely in advance of travel to prevent debris from being blown off the unit and endangering the safety of the traveling public. Any debris from the special permit vehicle deposited on the highway shall be removed by the permittee.
Bodily injury and property damage insurance is required before a special Transportation Permit will be issued.
In the event any claim arises against the State of Utah, Utah Department of Transportation, Utah Highway Patrol, or their employees from the operation granted under the permit, the permittee shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless each of them from such claim.
PERMIT:
Permits must be purchased. The Utah DOT Motor Carrier Safety Division will, on submission of an LCV permit request, assign an investigator to perform an audit on the carrier, which must have an established safety program that is in compliance with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (49 CFR parts 387-399), the Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 171-178), and a “Satisfactory” safety rating. The request must show a travel plan for the operation of the vehicles. Permits are subject to Highway Patrol supervision and permitted vehicles may be subject to temporary delays or removed from the highways when necessary during hazardous road, weather, or traffic conditions. The permit will be cancelled without refund if violated. Expiration dates cannot be extended except for reasons beyond the control of the permittee, including adverse weather. Permits are void if defaced, modified, or obliterated. Lost or destroyed permits cannot be duplicated and are not transferable.
ACCESS:
Routes approved by the Utah DOT plus local delivery destination travel on two-lane roads.
ROUTES: For combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 85 feet or less, all NN routes. Combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 85 feet are restricted to the following NN routes:
From
To
I-15
Arizona
Idaho.
I-70
Jct. I-15
Colorado.
I-80
Nevada
Wyoming.
I-84
Idaho
Jct. I-80.
I-215
Entire length in the Salt Lake City area
UT-201
I-80 Exit 102 Lake Point Jct
300 West Street, Salt Lake City.

# LEGAL CITATIONS:
Utah Code 27-12-154 and -155; Utah Administrative Code, Section R-909-1.

# STATE: UTAH

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 129,000 pounds
OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the UT-TT2 combination.
ROUTES: Same as the UT-TT2 combination with a cargo-carrying length greater than 85 feet.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the UT-TT2 combination.

# STATE: UTAH

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 88 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the UT-TT2 combination.
ROUTES:
1. Truck-trailer combinations hauling bulk gasoline or LP gas: cargo-carrying length less than or equal to 78 feet, all NN routes; cargo-carrying lengths over 78 feet up to and including 88 feet, same as UT-TT2 with cargo-carrying length over 85 feet.
2. All other truck-trailer combinations: cargo-carrying length less than or equal to 70 feet, all NN routes; cargo-carrying lengths over 70 feet up to and including 78 feet, same as UT-TT2 with cargo-carrying length over 85 feet.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the UT-TT2 combination.

# STATE: UTAH

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 88 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Same as the Utah truck-trailer combination.
ROUTES: Same as the UT-TT2.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the UT-TT2 combination.

# STATE: UTAH

# COMBINATION: Automobile transporter

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 105 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT, DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the Utah truck-trailer combination.
VEHICLE:
The cargo-carrying length of automobile transporters that carry vehicles on the power unit is the same as the overall length.
ROUTES: For automobile transporters with a cargo-carrying length of 92 feet or less, all NN routes. Automobile transporters with a cargo-carrying length over 92 feet up to and including 105 feet, same as UT-TT2 with cargo-carrying length over 85 feet.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the UT-TT2 combination.

# STATE: WASHINGTON

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 68 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
Single axle limit = 20,000 pounds; tandem axle limit = 34,000 pounds; gross weight must comply with the Federal Bridge Formula.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
Operating conditions are the same for permitted doubles as for STAA of 1982 doubles.
PERMIT:
Combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 60 feet in length but not exceeding 68 feet must obtain an annual overlength permit to operate. A fee is charged.
ACCESS:
All State routes except SR 410 and SR 123 in or adjacent to Mt. Rainier National Park. In addition, restrictions may be imposed by local governments having maintenance responsibilities for local highways.
ROUTES: All NN routes except SR 410 and SR 123 in the vicinity of Mt. Rainier National Park.
LEGAL CITATIONS:
RCW 46.37, 46.44.030, .037(3), .041, and .0941.

# STATE: WASHINGTON

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 68 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the WA-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
Overall length limited to 75 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the WA-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the WA-TT2 combination.

# STATE: WYOMING

# COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units—LCV

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 81 feet

# MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 117,000 pounds

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
No single axle shall carry a load in excess of 20,000 pounds. No tandem axle shall carry a load in excess of 36,000 pounds. No triple axle, consisting of three consecutive load-bearing axles that articulate from an attachment to the vehicle including a connecting mechanism to equalize the load between axles having a spacing between the first and third axle of at least 96 inches and not more than 108 inches, shall carry a load in excess of 42,500 pounds. No vehicles operated on the Interstate System shall exceed the maximum weight allowed by application of Federal Bridge Weight Formula B.
No wheel shall carry a load in excess of 10,000 pounds. No tire on a steering axle shall carry a load in excess of 750 pounds per inch of tire width and no other tire on a vehicle shall carry a load in excess of 600 pounds per inch of tire width. “Tire width” means the width stamped on the tire by the manufacturer.
Dummy axles may not be considered in the determination of allowable weights.
DRIVER:
The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement.
VEHICLE:
The lead semitrailer can be up to 48 feet long with the trailing unit up to 40 feet long. In a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination, the heavier towed vehicle shall be directly behind the truck-tractor and the lighter towed vehicle shall be last if the weight difference between consecutive towed vehicles exceeds 5,000 pounds.
PERMITS:
No permits required.
ACCESS:
Unlimited access off the NN to terminals.
ROUTES: All NN routes.
LEGAL CITATIONS:
WS 31-5-1001, -1002, -1004, -1008, and WS 31-17-1-1 through 31-17-117.

# STATE: WYOMING

# COMBINATION: Truck-trailer

# LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 78 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
No single vehicle shall exceed 60 feet in length within an overall limit of 85 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS:
WS 31-5-1002

# STATE: WYOMING

# COMBINATION: Automobile/Boat Transporter

# LENGTH OF CARGO CARRYING UNITS: 85 feet

# OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
The cargo-carrying length of automobile transporters that carry vehicles on the power unit is the same as the overall length. No single vehicle shall exceed 60 feet in length within an overall limit of 85 feet.
ROUTES: Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the WY-TT2 combination.

# STATE: WYOMING

# COMBINATION: Saddlemount Combination

# LENGTH OF CARGO CARRYING UNITS: 85 feet
WEIGHT:
This combination must operate in compliance with State laws and regulations. Because it is not an LCV, it is not subject to the ISTEA freeze as it applies to maximum weight.
DRIVER, PERMIT, and ACCESS:
Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
VEHICLE:
The cargo-carrying length of saddlemount combinations that carry vehicles on the power unit is the same as the overall length. No single vehicle shall exceed 60 feet in length within an overall limit of 85 feet.
No more than three saddlemounts may be used in any combination, except additional vehicles may be transported when safely loaded upon the frame of a vehicle in a properly assembled saddlemount combination.
Towed vehicles in a triple saddlemount combination shall have brakes acting on all wheels which are in contact with the roadway.
All applicable State and Federal rules on coupling devices shall be observed and complied with.
ROUTES: Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
LEGAL CITATIONS: Same as the WY-TT2 combination.
[59 FR 30422, June 13, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 15215, Mar. 22, 1995; 60 FR 16571, Mar. 31, 1995; 62 FR 10181, Mar. 5, 1997; 63 FR 70653, Dec. 22, 1998; 67 FR 15110, Mar. 29, 2002; 77 FR 32014, May 31, 2012; 83 FR 49488, Oct. 2, 2018; 84 FR 43688, Aug. 22, 2019]
Pt. 658, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 658—Devices That Are Excluded From Measurement of the Length or Width of a Commercial Motor Vehicle
The following devices are excluded from measurement of the length or width of a commercial motor vehicle, as long as they do not carry property and do not exceed the dimensional limitations included in § 658.16. This list is not exhaustive.
1. All devices at the front of a semitrailer or trailer including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) A device at the front of a trailer chassis to secure containers and prevent movement in transit;
(b) A front coupler device on a semitrailer or trailer used in road and rail intermodal operations;
(c) Aerodynamic devices, air deflector;
(d) Air compressor;
(e) Certificate holder (manifest box);
(f) Door vent hardware;
(g) Electrical connector;
(h) Gladhand;
(i) Handhold;
(j) Hazardous materials placards and holders;
(k) Heater;
(l) Ladder;
(m) Non-load carrying tie-down devices on automobile transporters;
(n) Pickup plate lip;
(o) Pump offline on tank trailer;
(p) Refrigeration unit;
(q) Removable bulkhead;
(r) Removable stakes;
(s) Stabilizing jack (anti-nosedive device);
(t) Stake pockets;
(u) Step;
(v) Tarp basket;
(w) Tire carrier; and
(x) Uppercoupler.
2. Devices excluded from length measurement at the rear of a semitrailer or trailer including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Handhold;
(b) Hazardous materials placards and holders;
(c) Ladder;
(d) Pintle hook;
(e) Removable stakes;
(f) Splash and spray suppression device;
(g) Stake pockets; and
(h) Step.
3. Devices excluded from width determination, not to exceed 3 inches from the side of the vehicle including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Corner caps;
(b) Hazardous materials placards and holders;
(c) Lift pads for trailer on flatcar (piggyback) operation;
(d) Rain gutters;
(e) Rear and side door hinges and their protective hardware;
(f) Side marker lamps;
(g) Structural reinforcement for side doors or intermodal operation (limited to 1 inch from the side within the 3 inch maximum extension);
(h) Tarping systems for open-top trailers;
(i) Movable devices to enclose the cargo area of flatbed semitrailers or trailers, usually called tarping systems, where no component part of the system extends more than 3 inches from the sides or back of the vehicle when the vehicle is in operation. This exclusion applies to all component parts of tarping systems, including the transverse structure at the front of the vehicle to which the sliding walls and roof of the tarp mechanism are attached, provided the structure is not also intended or designed to comply with 49 CFR 393.106, which requires a headerboard strong enough to prevent cargo from penetrating or crushing the cab; the transverse structure may be up to 108 inches wide if properly centered so that neither side extends more than 3 inches beyond the structural edge of the vehicle. Also excluded from measurement are side rails running the length of the vehicle and rear doors, provided the only function of the latter, like that of the transverse structure at the front of the vehicle, is to seal the cargo area and anchor the sliding walls and roof. On the other hand, a headerboard designed to comply with 49 CFR 393.106 is load bearing and thus limited to 102 inches in width. However, the “wings” designed to close the gap between such a headerboard and the movable walls and roof of a tarping system are width exclusive, provided they are add-on pieces designed to bear only the load of the tarping system itself and are not integral parts of the load-bearing headerboard structure;
(j) Tie-down assembly on platform trailers;
(k) Wall variation from true flat; and
(l) Weevil pins and sockets on low-bed trailers.
[67 FR 15110, Mar. 29, 2002]
Pt. 660

# PART 660—SPECIAL PROGRAMS (DIRECT FEDERAL)

# Subpart A—Forest Highways
Sec.
660.101
Purpose.
660.103
Definitions.
660.105
Planning and route designation.
660.107
Allocations.
660.109
Program development.
660.111
Agreements.
660.112
Project development.
660.113
Construction.
660.115
Maintenance.
660.117
Funding, records and accounting.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Defense Access Roads
660.501
Purpose.
660.503
Objectives.
660.505
Scope.
660.507
Definitions.
660.509
General principles.
660.511
Eligibility.
660.513
Standards.
660.515
Project administration.
660.517
Maneuver area roads.
660.519
Missile installations and facilities.

# Subpart A—Forest Highways

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1608-1610; 23 U.S.C. 101, 202, 204, and 315; 49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
59 FR 30300, June 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 660.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement the Forest Highway (FH) Program which enhances local, regional, and national benefits of FHs funded under the public lands highway category of the coordinated Federal Lands Highway Program. As provided in 23 U.S.C. 202, 203, and 204, the program, developed in cooperation with State and local agencies, provides safe and adequate transportation access to and through National Forest System (NFS) lands for visitors, recreationists, resource users, and others which is not met by other transportation programs. Forest highways assist rural and community economic development and promote tourism and travel.
§ 660.103
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a), the following apply to this subpart:
Cooperator
means a non-Federal public authority which has jurisdiction and maintenance responsibility for a FH.
Forest highway
means a forest road under the jurisdiction of, and maintained by, a public authority and open to public travel.
Forest road
means a road wholly or partly within, or adjacent to, and serving the NFS and which is necessary for the protection, administration, and utilization of the NFS and the use and development of its resources.
Jurisdiction
means the legal right or authority to control, operate, regulate use of, maintain, or cause to be maintained, a transportation facility, through ownership or delegated authority. The authority to construct or maintain such a facility may be derived from fee title, easement, written authorization, or permit from a Federal agency, or some similar method.
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)
means that organization designated as the forum for cooperative transportation decisionmaking pursuant to the provisions of part 450 of this title.
Metropolitan Transportation Plan
means the official intermodal transportation plan that is developed and adopted through the metropolitan transportation planning process for the metropolitan planning area.
National Forest System
means lands and facilities administered by the Forest Service (FS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, as set forth in the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resource Planning Act of 1974, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1600-1614).
Open to public travel
means except during scheduled periods, extreme weather conditions, or emergencies, open to the general public for use with a standard passenger auto, without restrictive gates or prohibitive signs or regulations, other than for general traffic control or restrictions based on size, weight, or class of registration.
Public authority
means a Federal, State, county, town, or township, Indian tribe, municipal or other local
government or instrumentality with authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain toll or toll-free facilities.
Public lands highway
means: (1) A forest road under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel or (2) any highway through unappropriated or unreserved public lands, nontaxable Indian lands, or other Federal reservations under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Public road
means any road or street under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Renewable resources
means those elements within the scope of responsibilities and authorities of the FS as defined in the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resource Planning Act of August 17, 1974 (88 Stat. 476) as amended by the National Forest Management Act of October 22, 1976 (90 Stat. 2949; 16 U.S.C. 1600-1614) such as recreation, wilderness, wildlife and fish, range, timber, land, water, and human and community development.
Resources
means those renewable resources defined above, plus other nonrenewable resources such as minerals, oil, and gas which are included in the FS's planning and land management processes.
Statewide transportation plan
means the official transportation plan that is: (1) Intermodal in scope, including bicycle and pedestrian features, (2) addresses at least a 20-year planning horizon, and (3) covers the entire State pursuant to the provisions of part 450 of this title.
§ 660.105
Planning and route designation.
(a) The FS will provide resource planning and related transportation information to the appropriate MPO and/or State Highway Agency (SHA) for use in developing metropolitan and statewide transportation plans pursuant to the provisions of part 450 of this title. Cooperators shall provide various planning (23 U.S.C. 134 and 135) information to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for coordination with the FS.
(b) The management systems required under 23 U.S.C. 303 shall fulfill the requirement in 23 U.S.C. 204(a) regarding the establishment and implementation of pavement, bridge, and safety management systems for FHs. The results of bridge management systems and safety management systems on all FHs and results of pavement management systems for FHs on Federal-aid highways are to be provided by the SHAs for consideration in the development of programs under § 660.109 of this part. The FHWA will provide appropriate pavement management results for FHs which are not Federal-aid highways.
(c) The FHWA, in consultation with the FS, the SHA, and other cooperators where appropriate, will designate FHs.
(1) The SHA and the FS will nominate forest roads for FH designation.
(2) The SHA will represent the interests of all cooperators. All other agencies shall send their proposals for FHs to the SHA.
(d) A FH will meet the following criteria:
(1) Generally, it is under the jurisdiction of a public authority and open to public travel, or a cooperator has agreed, in writing, to assume jurisdiction of the facility and to keep the road open to public travel once improvements are made.
(2) It provides a connection between adequate and safe public roads and the resources of the NFS which are essential to the local, regional, or national economy, and/or the communities, shipping points, or markets which depend upon those resources.
(3) It serves:
(i) Traffic of which a preponderance is generated by use of the NFS and its resources; or
(ii) NFS-generated traffic volumes that have a substantial impact on roadway design and construction; or
(iii) Other local needs such as schools, mail delivery, commercial supply, and access to private property within the NFS.
§ 660.107
Allocations.
On October 1 of each fiscal year, the FHWA will allocate 66 percent of Public Lands Highway funds, by FS Region, for FHs using values based on relative transportation needs of the NFS, after deducting such sums as deemed necessary for the administrative requirements of the FHWA and the FS; the necessary costs of FH planning studies; and the FH share of costs for approved Federal Lands Coordinated Technology Implementation Program studies.
§ 660.109
Program development.
(a) The FHWA will arrange and conduct a conference with the FS and the SHA to jointly select the projects which will be included in the programs for the current fiscal year and at least the next 4 years. Projects included in each year's program will be selected considering the following criteria:
(1) The development, utilization, protection, and administration of the NFS and its resources;
(2) The enhancement of economic development at the local, regional, and national level, including tourism and recreational travel;
(3) The continuity of the transportation network serving the NFS and its dependent communities;
(4) The mobility of the users of the transportation network and the goods and services provided;
(5) The improvement of the transportation network for economy of operation and maintenance and the safety of its users;
(6) The protection and enhancement of the rural environment associated with the NFS and its resources; and
(7) The results for FHs from the pavement, bridge, and safety management systems.
(b) The recommended program will be prepared and approved by the FHWA with concurrence by the FS and the SHA. Following approval, the SHA shall advise any other cooperators in the State of the projects included in the final program and shall include the approved program in the State's process for development of the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program. For projects located in metropolitan areas, the FHWA and the SHA will work with the MPO to incorporate the approved program into the MPO's Transportation Improvement Program.
§ 660.111
Agreements.
(a) A statewide FH agreement shall be executed among the FHWA, the FS, and each SHA. This agreement shall set forth the responsibilities of each party, including that of adherence to the applicable provisions of Federal and State statutes and regulations.
(b) The design and construction of FH projects will be administered by the FHWA unless otherwise provided for in an agreement approved under this subpart.
(c) A project agreement shall be entered into between the FHWA and the cooperator involved under one or more of the following conditions:
(1) A cooperator's funds are to be made available for the project or any portion of the project;
(2) Federal funds are to be made available to a cooperator for any work;
(3) Special circumstances exist which make a project agreement necessary for payment purposes or to clarify any aspect of the project; or
(4) It is necessary to document jurisdiction and maintenance responsibility.
§ 660.112
Project development.
(a) Projects to be administered by the FHWA or the FS will be developed in accordance with FHWA procedures for the Federal Lands Highway Program. Projects to be administered by a cooperator shall be developed in accordance with Federal-aid procedures and procedures documented in the statewide agreement.
(b) The FH projects shall be designed in accordance with part 625 of this chapter or those criteria specifically approved by the FHWA for a particular project.
§ 660.113
Construction.
(a) No construction shall be undertaken on any FH project until plans, specifications, and estimates have been concurred in by the cooperator(s) and the FS, and approved in accordance with procedures contained in the statewide FH agreement.
(b) The construction of FHs will be performed by the contract method, unless construction by the FHWA, the FS, or a cooperator on its own account is warranted under 23 U.S.C. 204(e).
(c) Prior to final construction acceptance by the contracting authority, the project shall be inspected by the cooperator, the FS, and the FHWA to identify and resolve any mutual concerns.
§ 660.115
Maintenance.
The cooperator having jurisdiction over a FH shall, upon acceptance of the project in accordance with § 660.113(c), assume operation responsibilities and maintain, or cause to be maintained, any project constructed under this subpart.
§ 660.117
Funding, records and accounting.
(a) The Federal share of funding for eligible FH projects may be any amount up to and including 100 percent. A cooperator may participate in the cost of project development and construction, but participation shall not be required.
(b) Funds for FHs may be used for:
(1) Planning;
(2) Federal Lands Highway research;
(3) Preliminary and construction engineering; and
(4) Construction.
(c) Funds for FHs may be made available for the following transportation-related improvement purposes which are generally part of a transportation construction project:
(1) Transportation planning for tourism and recreational travel;
(2) Adjacent vehicular parking areas;
(3) Interpretive signage;
(4) Acquisition of necessary scenic easements and scenic or historic sites;
(5) Provisions for pedestrians and bicycles;
(6) Construction and reconstruction of roadside rest areas including sanitary and water facilities; and
(7) Other appropriate public road facilities as approved by the FHWA.
(d) Use of FH funds for right-of-way acquisition shall be subject to specific approval by the FHWA.
(e) Cooperators which administer construction of FH projects shall maintain their FH records according to 49 CFR part 18.
(f) Funds provided to the FHWA by a cooperator should be received in advance of construction procurement unless otherwise specified in a project agreement.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Defense Access Roads

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 210, 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
49 FR 21924, May 24, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 660.501
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to prescribe policies and procedures governing evaluations of defense access road needs, and administration of projects financed under the defense access roads and other defense related special highway programs.
§ 660.503
Objectives.
The defense access roads program provides a means by which the Federal Government may pay its fair share of the cost of:
(a) Highway improvements needed for adequate highway service to defense and defense related installations;
(b) New highways to replace those which must be closed to permit establishment or expansion of defense installations;
(c) Repair of damage to highways caused by major military maneuvers;
(d) Repair of damages due to the activities of contractors engaged in the construction of missile sites; and
(e) Missile routes to ensure their continued ability to support the missile transporter-erector (TE) vehicle.
§ 660.505
Scope.
This regulation focuses on procedures as they apply to the defense access roads and other special highway programs of the Department of Defense (DOD).
§ 660.507
Definitions.
(a)
Defense installation.
A military reservation or installation, or defense
related industry or source of raw materials.
(b)
Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC).
The military transportation agency with responsibilities assigned by the Secretary of Defense for maintaining liaison with the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and other agencies for the integration of defense needs into the Nation's highway program.
(c)
Certification.
The statement to the Secretary of Transportation by the Secretary of Defense (or such other official as the President may designate) that certain roads are important to the national defense.
(d)
Access road.
An existing or proposed public highway which is needed to provide essential highway transportation services to a defense installation. (This definition may include public highways through military installations only when right-of-way for such roads is dedicated to public use and the roads are maintained by civil authority.)
(e)
Replacement road.
A public road constructed to replace one closed by establishment of a new, or the expansion of an old, defense installation.
(f)
Maneuver area road.
A public road in an area delineated by official orders for field maneuvers or exercises of military forces.
(g)
Transporter-erector route.
A public road specifically designated for use by the TE vehicle for access to missile sites.
§ 660.509
General principles.
(a) State and local highway agencies are expected to assume the same responsibility for developing and maintaining adequate highways to permanent defense installations as they do for highways serving private industrial establishments or any other permanent traffic generators. The Federal Government expects that highway improvements in the vicinity of defense installations will receive due priority consideration and treatment as State and local agencies develop their programs of improvement. The FHWA will provide assistance, as requested by MTMC, to ascertain State program plans for improvements to roads serving as access to defense installations. Roads which serve permanent defense installations and which qualify under established criteria as Federal-aid routes should be included in the appropriate Federal-aid system.
(b) It is recognized that problems may arise in connection with the establishment, expansion, or operation of defense installations which create an unanticipated impact upon the long-range requirements for the development of highways in the vicinity. These problems can be resolved equitably only by Federal assistance from other than normal Federal-aid highway programs for part or all of the cost of highway improvements necessary for the functioning of the installation.
§ 660.511
Eligibility.
(a) The MTMC has the responsibility for determining the eligibility of proposed improvements for financing with defense access roads funds. The evaluation report will be furnished to MTMC for its use in making the determination of eligibility and certification of importance to the national defense. The criteria upon which MTMC will base its determination of eligibility are included in the Federal-Aid Highway Program Manual, Volume 6, Chapter 9, Section 5, Attachment 2.
1
1
This document is available for inspection and copying from the FHWA headquarters and field offices as prescribed by 49 CFR part 7, appendix D.
(b) If the project is determined to be eligible for financing either in whole or in part with defense access road funds, MTMC will certify the project as important to the national defense and will authorize expenditure of defense access road funds. The Commander, MTMC, is the only representative of the DOD officially authorized to make the certification required by section 210, title 23, U.S.C., in behalf of the Secretary of Defense.
§ 660.513
Standards.
(a) Access roads to permanent defense installations and all replacement roads shall be designed to conform to the same standards as the agency having jurisdiction is currently using for other comparable highways under similar conditions in the area. In general,
where the agency having jurisdiction does not have established standards, the design shall conform to American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) standards. Should local agencies desire higher standards than are currently being used for other comparable highways under similar conditions in the area, they shall finance the increases in cost.
(b) Access roads to temporary military establishments or for service to workers temporarily engaged in construction of defense installations should be designed to the minimum standards necessary to provide service for a limited period without intolerable congestion and hazard. As a guide, widening to more than two lanes generally will not be undertaken to accommodate anticipated one-way, peak-hour traffic of less than 1,200 vehicles per hour and resurfacing or strengthening of existing pavements will be held to the minimum type having the structural integrity to carry traffic for the short period of anticipated use.
§ 660.515
Project administration.
(a) Determination of the agency best able to accomplish the location, design, and construction of the projects covered by this regulation will be made by the FHWA Division Administrator after consultation with the State and/or local highway agency within whose jurisdiction the highway lies. When an agency other than the State or local highway agency is selected to administer the project, the Division Administrator will be responsible during the life of the project for any necessary coordination between the selected agency and the State or local highway agency.
(b) Defense access road projects under the supervision of a State or local highway agency, whether on or off the Federal-aid system, shall be administered in accordance with Federal-aid procedures, as modified specifically herein or as limited by the delegations of authority to Regional and Division Administrators, unless approval of other procedures has been obtained from Washington Headquarters Office of Direct Federal Programs (HDF-1).
(c) The Division Administrator shall have a firm commitment from the State or local highway agency, within whose jurisdiction the access road lies, that it will accept the responsibility for maintenance of the completed facility before authorization of acquisition of right-of-way or construction of a project.
(d) When defense access road funds are available for a pro-rata portion of the total project cost, the remaining portion of the project may be funded as a Federal-aid project if on a Federal-aid route. Defense access road funds shall not be substituted for the State's matching share of the Federal-aid portion of a project.
§ 660.517
Maneuver area roads.
(a) Claims by a highway agency for costs incurred to restore, to their former condition, roads damaged by maneuvers involving a military force at least equal in strength to a ground division or an air wing will be paid from funds appropriated for the maneuver and transferred to FHWA by the DOD agency. Defense access road funds may be used to reimburse the highway authority pending transfer of funds by the DOD agency.
(b) Costs incurred by State or local highway authorities while conducting a pre- or post-condition survey may be included in the claim to DOD for direct settlement or in the damage repair project as appropriate.
§ 660.519
Missile installations and facilities.
Should damage occur to public highways as a result of construction activities, the contractor would normally be held responsible for restoring the damages. However, should the contractor deny responsibility on the basis of contract terms, restoration is provided for under 23 U.S.C. 210(h).
(a)
Restoration under the contract.
(1) The highway agency having jurisdiction over the road shall take appropriate actions, such as load and speed restrictions, to protect the highway. When extensive damage is anticipated and the contractor under the terms of the contract is responsible, it may be necessary to require a performance bond to assure restoration.
(2) If the contractor does not properly maintain the roads when requested in writing, the highway agency having jurisdiction over the road shall perform extraordinary maintenance as necessary to keep the roads serviceable and maintain adequate supporting records of the work performed. Claims shall be presented to the contractor for this extraordinary maintenance and any other work required to restore the roads. If the contractor denies responsibility on the basis of the contract terms, the claim with the required supporting documentation shall be presented to the contracting officer for disposition and arrangement for reimbursement.
(b)
Restoration under 23 U.S.C. 210(h).
(1) To implement 23 U.S.C. 210(h), DOD must make the determination that a contractor for a missile installation or facility did not include in the bid the cost of repairing damage caused to public highways by the operation of the contractor's vehicles and equipment. The FHWA must then make the determination that the State highway agency is, or has been, unable to prevent such damage by restrictions upon the use of the highways without interference with, or delay in, the completion of the contract. If these determinations are made, the Division Administrator will be authorized by the Washington Headquarters to reimburse the highway agency for the cost of the work necessary to keep the roads in a serviceable condition.
(2) Upon receipt of a damage claim, division office representatives accompanied by representatives of the agencies that made the original condition survey will inspect the roads on which damage is claimed. The Division Administrator shall then prepare an estimate of the cost of restoring the roads to original condition as well as any documented cost for extraordinary maintenance for which reimbursement has not been received. No allowance for upgrading the roads shall be included.
Pt. 661

# PART 661—TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION FACILITY BRIDGE PROGRAM (TTFBP)
Sec.
661.1
What is the purpose of this regulation?
661.3
Who must comply with this regulation?
661.5
What definitions apply to this regulation?
661.7
What is the TTFBP?
661.9
What is the total funding available for the TTFBP?
661.11
When do TTFBP funds become available?
661.13
How long are these funds available?
661.15
What are the eligible activities for TTFBP funds?
661.17
What are the criteria for bridge eligibility?
661.19
When is a bridge eligible for replacement?
661.21
When is a bridge eligible for rehabilitation?
661.23
How will a bridge project be programmed for funding once eligibility has been determined?
661.25
What does a complete application package for PE consist of and how does the project receive funding?
661.27
What does a complete application package for construction consist of and how does the project receive funding?
661.29
How does ownership impact project selection?
661.31
Do TTF bridge projects have to be listed on an approved TTP TIP?
661.33
What percentage of TTFBP funding is available for PE and construction?
661.35
What percentage of TTFBP funding is available for use on BIA and Tribally owned TTF bridges, and for non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges?
661.37
What are the funding limitations on an individual TTF bridge project?
661.39
How are project cost overruns funded?
661.41
After a bridge project has been completed (either PE or construction) what happens with the excess or surplus funding?
661.43
Can other sources of funds be used to finance a queued project in advance of receipt of TTFBP funds?
661.45
What happens when TTFBP funds cannot be obligated by the end of the fiscal year?
661.47
Can routine bridge maintenance be performed with TTFBP funds?
661.49
Can TTFBP funds be spent on Interstate, State Highway, County, City, Township, and Toll Road TTF bridges?
661.51
Can TTFBP funds be used for the approach roadway to a bridge?
661.53
What standards should be used for bridge design?
661.55
How are BIA and Tribal owned in-service TTF bridges inspected?
661.57
What should be done with a BIA and Tribal bridge in poor condition if the Indian Tribe does not support the project?

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 120(j) and (k), 202, and 315; 49 CFR 1.81, 1.84, 1.85; 23 CFR part 490, subpart D.

# Source:
89 FR 57082, July 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 661.1
What is the purpose of this regulation?
The purpose of this regulation is to prescribe policies for project selection and fund allocation procedures for administering the Tribal Transportation Facility Bridge Program (TTFBP).
§ 661.3
Who must comply with this regulation?
Tribes must comply with this regulation in applying for TTFBP funds for planning, design, engineering, pre-construction, construction, and inspection of new or replacement Tribal Transportation Facility (TTF) bridges classified as in poor condition, having low load capacity, or needing geometric improvements.
§ 661.5
What definitions apply to this regulation?
The following definitions apply to this regulation:
Approach roadway
means the portion of the highway immediately adjacent to the bridge that affects the geometrics of the bridge, including the horizontal and vertical curves and grades required to connect the existing highway alignment to the new bridge alignment using accepted engineering practices and ensuring that all safety standards are met.
Construction engineering (CE)
is the supervision, inspection, and other activities required to ensure the project construction meets the project's approved acceptance specifications, including but not limited to: additional survey staking functions considered necessary for effective control of the construction operations; testing materials incorporated into construction; checking shop drawings; and measurements needed for the preparation of pay estimates.
National Bridge Inventory (NBI)
means an FHWA database containing bridge information and inspection data for all structures defined as highway bridges located on all public roads, on and off Federal-aid highways, including Tribally owned and federally owned bridges, private bridges that are connected to a public road on both ends of the bridge, temporary bridges, and bridges under construction with portions open to traffic, that are subject to the National Bridge Inspection Standards.
National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory (NTTFI)
means at a minimum, transportation facilities that are eligible for assistance under the TTP as defined in 25 CFR 170.5.
Operating rating
means the maximum permissible live load to which the structure may be subjected for the load configuration used in the load rating. Allowing unlimited numbers of vehicles to use the bridge at operating level may shorten the life of the bridge.
Plans, specifications, and estimates (PS
E)
means construction drawings, compilation of provisions, and construction project cost estimates for the performance of the prescribed scope of work.
Preliminary engineering (PE)
means planning, survey, design, engineering, and preconstruction activities (including archaeological, environmental, and right-of-way activities) related to a specific bridge project.
Public road
means any road or street under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Rehabilitation
means major work required to restore the structural integrity of a bridge, as well as work necessary to correct major safety defects. FHWA Bridge Preservation Guide, Spring 2018 Edition.
Replacement
means total replacement of an existing bridge with a new facility constructed in the same general traffic corridor. FHWA Bridge Preservation Guide, Spring 2018 Edition.
Tribal Transportation Facility (TTF)
means a public highway, road, bridge, trail, transit system, or other approved facility that is located on or provides access to Tribal land and appears on the NTTFI.
TTF bridge
means a structure located on the NTTFI, including supports, erected over a depression or an obstruction, such as water, a highway, or a railway, and having a track or passageway for carrying traffic or other
moving loads, and having an opening measured along the center of the roadway of more than 20 feet between undercopings of abutments or spring lines of arches, or extreme ends of the openings for multiple boxes; it may also include multiple pipes, where the clear distance between openings is less than half of the smaller contiguous opening.
§ 661.7
What is the TTFBP?
The TTFBP, as established under 23 U.S.C. 202(d), is a nationwide priority program for improving TTF bridges classified as in poor condition, having low load capacity, or needing geometric improvements.
§ 661.9
What is the total funding available for the TTFBP?
The funding source and amount is specified by law, which is subject to change. Due to the complex nature of the funding for the TTFBP, please refer to the applicable statute and applicable FHWA guidance, which can be found on the FHWA's TTFBP website.
§ 661.11
When do TTFBP funds become available?
TTFBP funds are authorized at the start of each fiscal year but are subject to Office of Management and Budget apportionment before they become available to FHWA for further distribution.
§ 661.13
How long are these funds available?
TTFBP funds for each fiscal year are available for obligation for the year authorized plus 3 years (a total of 4 years).
§ 661.15
What are the eligible activities for TTFBP funds?
TTFBP funds can be used:
(a) To carry out any planning (including safety inspection of in-service bridges), design, engineering, preconstruction, construction, and construction inspection of new or replacement TTF bridges;
(b) To replace, rehabilitate, seismically retrofit, paint, apply calcium magnesium acetate, sodium acetate/formate, or other environmentally acceptable, minimally corrosive anti-icing and deicing composition;
(c) To implement countermeasures, including scour countermeasures, for TTF bridges classified as scour critical or in poor condition, having a low load capacity, or needing geometric improvements, including multiple-pipe culverts; or
(d) To demolish the old bridge if a bridge is replaced under the TTFBP.
§ 661.17
What are the criteria for bridge eligibility?
(a) For bridge replacement or rehabilitation, TTF bridges are required to meet the following:
(1) Must meet the definition of a TTF bridge;
(2) Be classified as a Tribal transportation facility;
(3) Be classified as in poor condition, have low load capacity, or need highway geometric improvements;
(4) Be recorded in the NBI maintained by FHWA;
(b) For new bridge construction, TTF bridges are required to meet the following:
(1) Be classified as a Tribal transportation facility;
(2) Be a public bridge that meets the definition of a TTF bridge and recorded in the NBI after project completion.
§ 661.19
When is a bridge eligible for replacement?
To be eligible for replacement, a TTF bridge must be in poor condition, have low load capacity, or need highway geometric improvements.
§ 661.21
When is a bridge eligible for rehabilitation?
To be eligible for rehabilitation, a TTF bridge must be in poor or fair condition, have low load capacity, or need highway geometric improvements.
§ 661.23
How will a bridge project be programmed for funding once eligibility has been determined?
(a) All projects will be ranked and prioritized for funding after a completed application package is received and accepted by FHWA. At that time, the project will be acknowledged as either BIA and Tribally owned, or non-
BIA/non-Tribally owned and placed in either a PE or a construction queue.
(b) All projects will be ranked and prioritized based on the following criteria:
(1) Bridge condition with bridges in poor condition having precedence over bridges in fair condition, and bridges in fair condition having precedence over bridges in good condition;
(2) Operating rating for bridges in poor condition with lower operating rating having precedence over higher operating rating;
(3) Bridges on school bus routes;
(4) New bridge construction;
(5) Bypass detour length;
(6) Annual average daily traffic; and
(7) Annual average daily truck traffic.
(c) Queues will carryover from fiscal year to fiscal year as made necessary by the amount of annual funding made available.
(d) TTF bridges will be classified as good, fair, or poor based on the following criteria:
(1)
Good:
When the lowest rating of the 3 NBI items for a bridge (Deck Condition Rating, Superstructure Condition Rating, Substructure Condition Rating) is 7, 8, or 9, the bridge will be classified as good. When the rating of the NBI item for a culvert (Culvert Condition Rating) is 7, 8, or 9, the culvert will be classified as good.
(2)
Fair:
When the lowest rating of the three NBI items for a bridge is 5 or 6, the bridge will be classified as fair. When the rating of the NBI item for a culvert is 5 or 6, the culvert will be classified as fair.
(3)
Poor:
When the lowest rating of the three NBI items for a bridge is 4, 3, 2, 1, or 0, the bridge will be classified as poor. When the rating of the NBI item for a culvert is 4, 3, 2, 1, or 0, the culvert will be classified as poor. A poor condition bridge with a lower condition rating will have precedence over a poor condition bridge with a higher condition rating.
§ 661.25
What does a complete application package for PE consist of and how does the project receive funding?
(a) A complete application package for PE consists of the following:
(1) The certification checklist;
(2) Tribal Transportation Program (TTP) transportation improvement program (TIP);
(3) Project scope of work;
(4) Detailed cost for PE;
(5) NBI data; and
(6) An acknowledgment by the Tribe of the project specific funding requirements and that any excess funds will be returned to FHWA for further distribution.
(b) For non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges, the application package must also include a Tribal resolution supporting the project.
(c) Incomplete application packages will be disapproved and returned for revision and resubmission along with an explanation providing the reason for disapproval.
(d) The TTF bridge projects for PE will be placed in the queue and determined as eligible for funding after receipt by FHWA of a complete application package.
(e) Funding for the approved eligible projects on the queues will be made available to the Tribes, under a TTP Program agreement between FHWA and a Tribal government, or the Secretary of the Interior upon availability of program funding at FHWA.
§ 661.27
What does a complete application package for construction consist of and how does the project receive funding?
(a) A complete application package for construction consists of the following:
(1) A copy of the approved PS
E;
(2) The certification checklist;
(3) NBI data;
(4) The TTP TIP;
(5) All environmental and archeological clearances and complete grants of public rights-of-way that must be acquired prior to submittal of the construction application package; and
(6) An acknowledgment by the Tribe of the project specific funding requirements and that any excess funds will be returned to FHWA for further distribution.
(b) For non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges, the application package must also include a copy of a letter from the bridge's owner approving the project and its PS
E and a Tribal resolution supporting the project.
(c) Incomplete application packages will be disapproved and returned for revision and resubmission along with an explanation providing the reason for disapproval.
(d) The TTF bridge projects for construction will be placed in the queue and determined as eligible for funding after receipt by FHWA of a complete application package.
(e) Funding for the approved eligible projects in the queues will be made available to the Tribes, under a TTP Program Agreement between FHWA and a Tribal government, or the Secretary of the Interior upon availability of program funding at FHWA.
§ 661.29
How does ownership impact project selection?
(a) Primary consideration will be given to eligible projects on BIA and Tribally owned TTF bridges. A smaller percentage of available funds will be set aside for non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges, since States and counties have access to Federal-aid and other funding to design, replace, and rehabilitate their bridges.
(b) The program policy will be to maximize the number of TTF bridges participating in the TTFBP in a given fiscal year regardless of ownership.
§ 661.31
Do TTF bridge projects have to be listed on an approved TTP TIP?
Yes. All TTF bridge projects must be listed on an approved FHWA TTP TIP. TTF bridge projects included in the TTP TIP that are not fiscally constrained may still be included as a list of projects dependent upon the availability of additional resources, also known as an “illustrative list”.
§ 661.33
What percentage of TTFBP funding is available for PE and construction?
(a) Up to 15 percent of the funding made available in any fiscal year will be eligible for PE. The remaining funding in any fiscal year will be available for construction.
(b) At various times during the fiscal year, FHWA will review the TTFBP funding and may shift funds between PE and construction funds to maximize the number of projects funded and the overall effectiveness of the program.
§ 661.35
What percentage of TTFBP funding is available for use on BIA and Tribally owned TTF bridges, and for non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges?
(a) Up to 80 percent of the available funding made available for PE and construction in any fiscal year will be eligible for use on BIA and Tribally owned TTF bridges. The remaining funding in any fiscal year will be made available for PE and construction for use on non-BIA/non-Tribally owned TTF bridges.
(b) At various times during the fiscal year, FHWA will review the projects awaiting funding and may shift funds between BIA and Tribally owned, and non-BIA/non-Tribally owned bridge projects to maximize the number of projects funded and the overall effectiveness of the program.
§ 661.37
What are the funding limitations on an individual TTF bridge project?
The following funding provisions apply in administration of the TTFBP:
(a) There are no funding limitations on an individual TTF bridge application, but the PE estimated cost will be based on the following fee scale:
Estimated Construction Cost:
Up to $1,000,000—Use up to 20% for PE
$1,000,000 to $5,000,000—Use up to 15%-20% for PE
$5,000,000 to $10,000,000—Use up to 10%-15% for PE
Over $10,000,000—Use up to 10% for PE
(b) Requests for additional funds for PE or construction may be submitted along with proper justification to FHWA for consideration. The request will be considered on a case-by-case basis. There is no guarantee for the approval of the request for additional funds.
§ 661.39
How are project cost overruns funded?
(a) A request for additional TTFBP funds for cost overruns on a specific bridge project must be submitted to Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Transportation (BIADOT) and FHWA for approval. The written submission
must include a justification, an explanation as to why the overrun occurred, and the amount of additional funding required with supporting cost data. If approved by FHWA and BIADOT, the request will be placed at the top of the appropriate queue (with a contract modification request having a higher priority than a request for additional funds for a project award) and funding may be provided if available.
(b) Project cost overruns may also be funded out of the Tribe's regular TTP construction funding.
§ 661.41
After a bridge project has been completed (either PE or construction) what happens with the excess or surplus funding?
Since the funding is project specific, once a bridge design or construction project has been completed under this program, any excess or surplus funding is returned to FHWA for use on additional approved TTF bridge projects.
§ 661.43
Can other sources of funds be used to finance a queued project in advance of receipt of TTFBP funds?
Yes. A Tribe can use other sources of funds, including TTP construction funds, on a project that has been approved for funding and placed on the queue and then be reimbursed when TTFBP funds become available. If TTP construction funds are used for this purpose, the funds must be identified on an FHWA approved TTP TIP prior to their expenditure.
§ 661.45
What happens when TTFBP funds cannot be obligated by the end of the fiscal year?
The TTFBP funds from the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) provided to a project that cannot be obligated by the end of the fiscal year are to be returned to FHWA during August redistribution. The returned funds will be re-allocated to the BIA the following fiscal year after FHWA receives and accepts a formal request for the funds from BIA, which includes a justification for the amounts requested and the reason for the failure of the prior year obligation.
§ 661.47
Can routine bridge maintenance be performed with TTFBP funds?
No. Routine bridge maintenance repairs,
e.g.,
guard rail repair, repair of traffic control devices, striping, cleaning scuppers, deck sweeping, snow and debris removal, etc., are not eligible uses of TTFBP funding. The U.S. Department of the Interior's annual allocation for maintenance as well as TTP construction funds are eligible funding sources for routine bridge maintenance.
§ 661.49
Can TTFBP funds be spent on Interstate, State Highway, County, City, Township, and Toll Road TTF bridges?
Yes. Interstate, State Highway, County, City, Township, and Toll Road TTF bridges are eligible for funding as described in § 661.37(b).
§ 661.51
Can TTFBP funds be used for the approach roadway to a bridge?
Yes, costs associated with approach roadway work, as defined in § 661.5 are eligible. Long approach fills, causeways, connecting roadways, interchanges, ramps, and other extensive earth structures, when constructed beyond an attainable touchdown point, are not eligible uses of TTFBP funds.
§ 661.53
What standards should be used for bridge design?
(a)
New and replacement.
New and replacement structures must meet the current geometric, construction, and structural standards required for the types and volumes of projected traffic on the facility over its design life consistent with 25 CFR part 170, subpart D, appendix B.
(b)
Rehabilitation.
Bridges to be rehabilitated, at a minimum, should conform to the standards referenced in 25 CFR part 170, subpart D, appendix B.
§ 661.55
How are BIA and Tribally owned in-service TTF bridges inspected?
The BIA and Tribally owned in-service TTF bridges are inspected in accordance with 25 CFR 170.513 through 170.514.
§ 661.57
What should be done with a BIA and Tribal bridge in poor condition if the Indian Tribe does not support the project?
The restrictions set forth in 25 CFR 170.114(a)(1) shall apply.
Pt. 667

# PART 667—PERIODIC EVALUATION OF FACILITIES REPEATEDLY REQUIRING REPAIR AND RECONSTRUCTION DUE TO EMERGENCY EVENTS
Sec.
667.1
Statewide evaluation.
667.3
Definitions.
667.5
Data time period, availability, and sources.
667.7
Timing of evaluations.
667.9
Consideration of evaluations.

# Authority:
Sec. 1315(b) of Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405; 23 U.S.C. 109, 144, and 315; 49 CFR 1.85.

# Source:
81 FR 73267, Oct. 24, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 667.1
Statewide evaluation.
Each State, acting through its department of transportation (State DOT), shall conduct statewide evaluations to determine if there are reasonable alternatives to roads, highways, and bridges that have required repair and reconstruction activities on two or more occasions due to emergency events. The evaluations shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this part.
§ 667.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Catastrophic failure
means the sudden failure of a major element or segment of a road, highway, or bridge due to an external cause. The failure must not be primarily attributable to gradual and progressive deterioration or lack of proper maintenance.
Evaluation
means an analysis that includes identification and consideration of any alternative that will mitigate, or partially or fully resolve, the root cause of the recurring damage, the costs of achieving the solution, and the likely duration of the solution. The evaluations shall consider the risk of recurring damage and cost of future repair under current and future environmental conditions. These considerations typically are a part of the planning and project development process.
Emergency event
means a natural disaster or catastrophic failure resulting in an emergency declared by the Governor of the State or an emergency or disaster declared by the President of the United States.
Reasonable alternatives
include options that could partially or fully achieve the following:
(1) Reduce the need for Federal funds to be expended on emergency repair and reconstruction activities;
(2) Better protect public safety and health and the human and natural environment; and
(3) Meet transportation needs as described in the relevant and applicable Federal, State, local, and tribal plans and programs. Relevant and applicable plans and programs include the Long-Range Statewide Transportation Plan, Statewide Transportation Improvement Plan (STIP), Metropolitan Transportation Plan(s), and Transportation Improvement Program(s) (TIP) that are developed under part 450 of this title.
Repair and reconstruction
means work on a road, highway, or bridge that has one or more reconstruction elements. The term includes permanent repairs such as restoring pavement surfaces, reconstructing damaged bridges and culverts, and replacing highway appurtenances, but excludes emergency repairs as defined in 23 CFR 668.103.
Roads, highways, and bridges
means a highway, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(11), that is open to the public and eligible for financial assistance under title 23, U.S.C.; but excludes tribally owned and federally owned roads, highways, and bridges.
§ 667.5
Data time period, availability, and sources.
(a) The beginning date for every evaluation under this part shall be January 1, 1997. The end date must be no earlier than December 31 of the year preceding the date on which the evaluation is due for completion. Evaluations should cover a longer period if useful data is reasonably available. Subject to the timing provisions in § 667.7, evaluations must include any road, highway, or bridge that, on or after January 1, 1997,
required repair and reconstruction on two or more occasions due to emergency events.
(b) State DOTs must use reasonable efforts to obtain the data needed for the evaluation. If the State DOT determines the necessary data for the evaluation is unavailable, the State DOT must document in the evaluation the lack of available data for that facility.
(c) A State DOT may use whatever sources and types of data it determines are useful to the evaluation. Available data sources include reports or other information required to receive emergency repair funds under title 23, other sources used to apply for Federal or nonfederal funding, and State or local records pertaining to damage sustained and/or funding sought.
§ 667.7
Timing of evaluations.
(a) Not later than November 23, 2018, the State DOT must complete the statewide evaluation for all NHS roads, highways and bridges. The State DOT shall update the evaluation after every emergency event to the extent needed to add any roads, highways, or bridges subject to this paragraph that were affected by the event. The State DOT shall review and update the entire evaluation at least every 4 years. In establishing its evaluation cycle, the State DOT should consider how the evaluation can best inform the State DOT's preparation of its asset management plan and STIP.
(b) Beginning on November 23, 2020, for all roads, highways, and bridges not included in the evaluation prepared under paragraph (a) of this section, the State DOT must prepare an evaluation that conforms with this part for the affected portion of the road, highway, or bridge prior to including any project relating to such facility in its STIP.
§ 667.9
Consideration of evaluations.
(a) The State DOT shall consider the results of an evaluation prepared under this part when developing projects. State DOTs and metropolitan planning organizations are encouraged to include consideration of the evaluations during the development of transportation plans and programs, including TIPs and STIPs, and during the environmental review process under part 771 of this title. Nothing in this section prohibits State DOTs from proceeding with emergency repairs to restore functionality of the system, or from receiving emergency repair funding under part 668 of this title.
(b) The FHWA will periodically review the State DOT's compliance under this part, including evaluation performance, consideration of evaluation results during project development, and overall results achieved. Nothing in this paragraph limits FHWA's ability to consider the results of the evaluations when relevant to an FHWA decision, including when making a planning finding under 23 U.S.C. 134(g)(8), making decisions during the environmental review process under part 771 of this title, or when approving funding. The State DOT must make evaluations required under this part available to FHWA upon request.
Pt. 668

# PART 668—EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Procedures for Federal-Aid Highways
Sec.
668.101
Purpose.
668.103
Definitions.
668.105
Policy.
668.107
Federal share payable.
668.109
Eligibility.
668.111
Application procedures.
668.113
Program and project procedures.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Federal Agencies for Federal Roads
668.201
Purpose.
668.203
Definitions.
668.205
Policy.
668.207
Federal share payable from emergency fund.
668.209
Eligibility of work.
668.211
Notification, damage assessment, and finding.
668.213
Application procedures.
668.215
Programming and project procedures.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 101, 120(e), 125 and 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Subpart A—Procedures for Federal-Aid Highways

# Source:
52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 668.101
Purpose.
To establish policy and provide program guidance for the administration of emergency funds for the repair or reconstruction of Federal-aid highways, which are found to have suffered serious damage by natural diasters over a wide area or serious damage from catastrophic failures. Guidance for application by Federal agencies for reconstruction of Federal roads that are not part of the Federal-aid highways is contained in 23 CFR part 668, subpart B.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996]
§ 668.103
Definitions.
In addition to others contained in 23 U.S.C. 101(a), the following definitions shall apply as used in this regulation:
Applicant.
The State highway agency is the applicant for Federal assistance under 23 U.S.C. 125 for State highways and local roads and streets which are a part of the Federal-aid highways.
Betterments.
Added protective features, such as rebuilding of roadways at a higher elevation or the lengthening of bridges, or changes which modify the function or character of a highway facility from what existed prior to the disaster or catastrophic failure, such as additional lanes or added access control.
Catastrophic failure.
The sudden failure of a major element or segment of the highway system due to an external cause. The failure must not be primarily attributable to gradual and progressive deterioration or lack of proper maintenance. The closure of a facility because of imminent danger of collapse is not in itself a sudden failure.
Emergency repairs.
Those repairs including temporary traffic operations undertaken during or immediately following the disaster occurrence for the purpose of:
(1) Minimizing the extent of the damage,
(2) Protecting remaining facilities, or
(3) Restoring essential traffic.
External cause.
An outside force or phenomenon which is separate from the damaged element and not primarily the result of existing conditions.
Heavy maintenance.
Work usually done by highway agencies in repairing damage normally expected from seasonal and occasionally unusual natural conditions or occurrences. It includes work at a site required as a direct result of a disaster which can reasonably be accommodated by a State or local road authority's maintenance, emergency or contingency program.
Natural disaster.
A sudden and unusual natural occurrence, including but not limited to intense rainfall, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, tidal waves, landslides, volcanoes or earthquakes which cause serious damage.
Proclamation.
A declaration of emergency by the Governor of the affected State.
Serious damage.
Heavy, major or unusual damage to a highway which severely impairs the safety or usefulness of the highway or results in road closure. Serious damage must be beyond the scope of heavy maintenance.
State.
Any one of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa or Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996; 65 FR 25444, May 2, 2000]
§ 668.105
Policy.
(a) The Emergency Relief (ER) program is intended to aid States in repairing road facilities which have suffered widespread serious damage resulting from a natural disaster over a wide area or serious damage from a catastrophic failure.
(b) ER funds are not intended to supplant other funds for correction of preexisting, nondisaster related deficiencies.
(c) The expenditure of ER funds for emergency repair shall be in such a manner so as to reduce, to the greatest extent feasible, the cost of permanent restoration work.
(d) The approval to use available ER funds to repair or restore highways damaged by a natural disaster shall be based on the combination of the extraordinary character of the natural disturbance and the wide area of impact as well as the seriousness of the damage. Storms of unusual intensity
occurring over a small area may not meet the above conditions.
(e) ER funds shall not duplicate assistance under another Federal program or compensation from insurance or any other source. Partial compensation for a loss by other sources will not preclude emergency fund assistance for the part of such loss not compensated otherwise. Any compensation for damages or insurance proceeds including interest recovered by the State or political subdivision or by a toll authority for repair of the highway facility must be used upon receipt to reduce ER fund liability on the project.
(f) Prompt and diligent efforts shall be made by the State to recover repair costs from the legally responsible parties to reduce the project costs particularly where catastrophic damages are caused by ships, barge tows, highway vehicles, or vehicles with illegal loads or where damage is increased by improperly controlled objects or events.
(g) The processing of ER requests shall be given prompt attention and shall be given priority over non-emergency work.
(h) ER projects shall be promptly constructed. Any project that has not advanced to the construction obligation stage by the end of the second fiscal year following the disaster occurrence will not be advanced unless suitable justification to warrant retention is furnished to the FHWA.
(i) Permanent repair and reconstruction work, not accomplished as emergency repairs, shall be done by the contract method unless the State Highway agency adequately demonstrates that some other method is more cost effective as described in 23 CFR 635.204. Emergency repair work may be accomplished by the contract, negotiated contract or highway agency force account methods as determined by the Highway agency as best suited to protect the public health and safety.
(j) ER program funding is only to be used to repair highways which have been seriously damaged and is not intended to fund heavy maintenance or routine emergency repair activities which should normally be funded as contingency items in the State and local road programs. An application for ER funds in the range of $700,000 or less must be accompanied by a showing as to why the damage repair involved is considered to be beyond the scope of heavy maintenance or routine emergency repair. As a general rule, widespread nominal road damages in this range would not be considered to be of a significant nature justifying approval by the FHWA Division Administrator for ER funding.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996; 65 FR 25444, May 2, 2000]
§ 668.107
Federal share payable.
(a) The Federal share payable on account of any repair or reconstruction provided for by funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 125 of this title on account of any project on a Federal-aid highway system, including the Interstate System, shall not exceed the Federal share payable on a project on such system as provided in 23 U.S.C. 120; except that the Federal share payable for eligible emergency repairs to minimize damage, protect facilities, or restore essential traffic accomplished within 180 days after the actual occurrence of the natural disaster or catastrophic failure may amount to 100 percent of the costs thereof.
(b) Total obligations of ER funds in any State, excluding the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa or Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, for all projects (including projects on both the Federal-aid systems and those on Federal roads under 23 CFR part 668, subpart B), resulting from a single natural disaster or a single catastrophic failure, shall not exceed $100 million per disaster or catastrophic failure. The total obligations for ER projects in any fiscal year in the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall not exceed $20 million.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 32540, Aug. 28, 1987; 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996; 65 FR 25444, May 2, 2000]
§ 668.109
Eligibility.
(a) The eligibility of all work is contingent upon approval by the FHWA Division Administrator of an application for ER and inclusion of the work in an approved program of projects.
(1) Prior FHWA approval or authorization is not required for emergency repairs and preliminary engineering (PE).
(2) Permanent repairs or restoration must have prior FHWA program approval and authorization, unless done as part of the emergency repairs.
(b) ER funds may participate in:
(1) Repair to or reconstruction of seriously damaged highway elements as necessary to restore the facility to pre-disaster conditions, including necessary clearance of debris and other deposits in drainage courses within the right-of way (ROW);
(2) Restoration of stream channels outside the highway ROW when:
(i) The public highway agency has responsibility for the maintenance and proper operation of the stream channel section, and
(ii) The work is necessary for satisfactory operation of the highway system involved;
(3) Actual PE and construction engineering costs on approved projects;
(4) Emergency repairs;
(5) Temporary operations, including emergency traffic services such as flagging traffic through inundated sections of highways, undertaken by the applicant during or immediately following the disaster;
(6) Betterments, only where clearly economically justified to prevent future recurring damage. Economic justification must weigh the cost of betterment against the risk of eligible recurring damage and the cost of future repair;
(7) Temporary work to maintain essential traffic, such as raising roadway grade during a period of flooding by placing fill and temporary surface material;
(8) Raising the grades of critical Federal-aid highways faced with long-term loss of use due to basin flooding as defined by an unprecedented rise in basin water level both in magnitude and time frame. Such grade raises are not considered to be a betterment for the purpose of 23 CFR 668.109(b)(6); and
(9) Repair of toll facilities when the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 129 are met. If a toll facility does not have an executed toll agreement with the FHWA at the time of the disaster, a toll agreement may be executed after the disaster to qualify for that disaster.
(c) ER funds may not participate in:
(1) Heavy maintenance such as repair of minor damages consisting primarily of eroded shoulders, filled ditches and culverts, pavement settlement, mud and debris deposits off the traveled way, slope sloughing, slides, and slip-outs in cut or fill slopes. In order to simplify the inspection and estimating process, heavy maintenance may be defined using dollar guidelines developed by the States and Divisions with Regional concurrence;
(2) Repair of surface damage caused by traffic whether or not the damage was aggravated by saturated subgrade or inundation, except ER funds may participate in:
(i) Repair of surface damage to any public road caused by traffic making repairs to Federal-aid highways.
(ii) Repair of surface damage to designated detours (which may lie on both Federal-aid and non-Federal-aid routes) caused by traffic that has been detoured from a damaged Federal-aid highway; and
(iii) Repair of surface damage to Federal-aid highways caused by vehicles responding to a disaster; provided the surface damage has occurred during the first 60 days after a disaster occurrence, unless otherwise approved by the FHWA Division Administrator.
(3) Repair of damage not directly related to, and isolated away from, the pattern of the disaster;
(4) Routine maintenance of detour routes, not related to the increased traffic volumes, such as mowing, maintaining drainage, pavement signing, snow plowing, etc.;
(5) Replacement of damaged or lost material not incorporated into the highway such as stockpiled materials or items awaiting installation;
(6) Repair or reconstruction of facilities affected by long-term, pre-existing conditions or predictable developing situations, such as, gradual, long-term rises in water levels in basins or slow moving slides, except for raising grades as noted in § 668.109(b)(8);
(7) Permanent repair or replacement of deficient bridges scheduled for replacement with other funds. A project
is considered scheduled if the construction phase is included in the FHWA approved Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP);
(8) Other normal maintenance and operation functions on the highway system including snow and ice removal; and
(9) Reimbursing loss of toll revenue.
(d) Replacement of a highway facility at its existing location is appropriate when it is not technically and economically feasible to repair or restore a seriously damaged element to its predisaster condition and is limited in ER reimbursement to the cost of a new facility to current design standards of comparable capacity and character to the destroyed facility. With respect to a bridge, a comparable facility is one which meets current geometric and construction standards for the type and volume of traffic it will carry during its design life. Where it is neither practical nor feasible to replace a damaged highway facility in kind at its existing location, an alternative selected through the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process, if of comparable function and character to the destroyed facility, is eligible for ER reimbursement.
(e) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the total cost of a project eligible for ER funding may not exceed the cost of repair or reconstruction of a comparable facility. ER funds may participate to the extent of eligible repair costs when proposed projects contain unjustified betterments or other work not eligible for ER funds.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996; 65 FR 25444, May 2, 2000]
§ 668.111
Application procedures.
(a)
Notification.
As soon as possible after the disaster, the applicant shall notify the FHWA Division Administrator of its intent to apply for ER funds.
(b)
Damage survey.
As soon as practical after occurrence, the State will make a preliminary field survey, working cooperatively with the FHWA Division Administrator and other governmental agencies with jurisdiction over eligible highways. The preliminary field survey should be coordinated with the Federal Emergency Management Agency work, if applicable, to eliminate duplication of effort. The purpose of this survey is to determine the general nature and extent of damage to eligible highways.
(1) A damage survey summary report is to be prepared by the State. The purpose of the damage survey summary report is to provide a factual basis for the FHWA Division Administrator's finding that serious damage to Federal-aid highways has been caused by a natural disaster over a wide area or a catastrophe. The damage survey summary report should include by political subdivision or other generally recognized administrative or geographic boundaries, a description of the types and extent of damage to highways and a preliminary estimate of cost of restoration or reconstruction for damaged Federal-aid highways in each jurisdiction. Pictures showing the kinds and extent of damage and sketch maps detailing the damaged areas should be included, as appropriate, in the damage survey summary report.
(2) Unless very unusual circumstances prevail, the damage survey summary report should be prepared within 6 weeks following the applicant's notification.
(3) For large disasters where extensive damage to Federal-aid highways is readily evident, the FHWA Division Administrator may approve an application under § 668.111(d) prior to submission of the damage survey summary report. In these cases, an abbreviated damage survey summary report, summarizing eligible repair costs by jurisdiction, is to be prepared and submitted to the FHWA Division Administrator after the damage inspections have been completed.
(c)
Application.
Before funds can be made available, an application for ER must be made to, and approved by the FHWA Division Administrator. The application shall include:
(1) A copy of the Governor's proclamation, request for a Presidential declaration, or a Presidential declaration; and
(2) A copy of the damage survey summary report, as appropriate.
(d)
Approval of application.
The FHWA Division Administrator's approval of the application constitutes the finding of eligibility under 23 U.S.C. 125 and shall constitute approval of the application.
[65 FR 25444, May 2, 2000]
§ 668.113
Program and project procedures.
(a) Immediately after approval of an application, the FHWA Division Administrator will notify the applicant to proceed with preparation of a program which defines the work needed to restore or replace the damaged facilities. It should be submitted to the FHWA Division Administrator within 3 months of receipt of this notification. The FHWA field office will assist the applicant and other affected agencies in preparation of the program. This work may involve joint site inspections to view damage and reach tentative agreement on type of permanent corrective work to be undertaken. Program data should be kept to a minimum, but should be sufficient to identify the approved disaster or catastrophe and to permit a determination of the eligibility and propriety of proposed work. If the damage survey summary report is determined by the FHWA Division Administrator to be of sufficient detail to meet these criteria, additional program support data need not be submitted.
(b)
Project procedures.
(1) Projects for permanent repairs shall be processed in accordance with regular Federal-aid procedures. In those cases where a regular Federal-aid project in a State similar to the ER project would be handled under the project oversight exceptions found in title 23, United States Code, the ER project can be handled in a similar fashion subject to the following two conditions:
(i) Any betterment to be incorporated into the project and for which ER funding is requested must receive prior FHWA approval; and
(ii) The FHWA reserves the right to conduct final inspections on all ER projects. The FHWA Division Administrator has the discretion to undertake final inspections on ER projects as deemed appropriate.
(2) Simplified procedures, including abbreviated plans should be used where appropriate.
(3) Emergency repair meets the criteria for categorical exclusions pursuant to 23 CFR 771.117 and normally does not require any further NEPA approvals.
[52 FR 21948, June 10, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67212, Dec. 20, 1996; 65 FR 25445, May 2, 2000]

# Subpart B—Procedures for Federal Agencies for Federal Roads
§ 668.201
Purpose.
To establish policy, procedures, and program guidance for the administration of emergency relief to Federal agencies for the repair or reconstruction of Federal roads which are found to have suffered serious damage by a natural disaster over a wide area or by catastrophic failure.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978]
§ 668.203
Definitions.
(a)
Applicant.
Any Federal agency which submits an application for emergency relief and which has authority to repair or reconstruct Federal roads.
(b)
Betterments.
Added protective features, such as, the relocation or rebuilding of roadways at a higher elevation or the extension, replacement or raising of bridges, and added facilities not existing prior to the natural disaster or catastrophic failure such as additional lanes, upgraded surfacing, or structures.
(c)
Catastrophic failure.
The sudden failure of a major element or segment of a Federal road which is not primarily attributable to gradual and progressive deterioration or lack of proper maintenance. The closure of a facility because of imminent danger of collapse is not in itself a sudden failure.
(d)
Emergency repairs.
Those repairs, including necessary preliminary engineering (PE), construction engineering (CE), and temporary traffic operations, undertaken during or immediately after a natural disaster or catastrophic failure (1) to restore essential travel, (2) to protect remaining facilities, or (3) to minimize the extent of damage.
(e)
Federal roads.
Forest highways, forest development roads and trails, park roads and trails, parkways, public lands highways, public lands development roads and trails, and Indian reservation roads as defined under 23 U.S.C. 101(a).
(f)
Finding.
A letter or other official correspondence issued by the Direct Federal Division Engineer (DFDE) to a Federal agency giving notification that pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 125, Federal roads have (Affirmative Finding) or have not (Negative Finding) been found to have suffered serious damage as the result of (1) a natural disaster over a wide area, or (2) a catastrophic failure.
(g)
Natural disaster.
An unusual natural occurrence such as a flood, hurricane, severe storm, tidal wave, earthquake, or landslide which causes serious damage.
(h)
Permanent work.
Repair or reconstruction to pre-disaster or other allowed geometric and construction standards and related PE and CE.
(i)
Direct Federal Division Engineer.
Director of one of the Direct Federal field offices located in Vancouver, WA; Denver, CO; and Arlington, VA.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
§ 668.205
Policy.
(a) This emergency relief program is intended to pay the unusually heavy expenses in the repair and reconstruction of Federal roads resulting from damage caused by natural disasters over a wide area or catastrophic failures.
(b) Emergency relief work shall be given prompt attention and priority over non-emergency work.
(c) Permanent work shall be done by contract awarded by competitive bidding through formal advertising, where feasible.
(d) It is in the public interest to perform emergency repairs immediately and prior approval or authorization from the DFDE is not required. Emergency repairs may be performed by the method of contracting (advertised contract, negotiated contract, or force account) which the applicant or the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) (where FHWA performs the work) determines to be most suited for this work.
(e) Emergency relief projects shall be promptly constructed. Projects not under construction by the end of the second fiscal year following the year in which the disaster occurred will be reevaluated by the DFDE and will be withdrawn from the approved program of projects unless suitable justification is provided by the applicant to warrant retention.
(f) The Finding for natural disasters will be based on both the extraordinary character of the natural disturbance and the wide area of impact. Storms of unusual intensity occurring over a small area do not meet these conditions.
(g) Diligent efforts shall be made to recover repair costs from the legally responsible parties to reduce the project costs where highway damages are caused by ships, barge tows, highway vehicles, vehicles with illegal loads, and similar improperly controlled objects or events.
(h) Emergency funds shall not duplicate assistance under another Federal program or compensation from insurance or any other source. Where other funding compensates for only part of an eligible cost, emergency relief funding can be used to pay the remaining costs.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
§ 668.207
Federal share payable from emergency fund.
The Federal share payable under this program is 100 percent of the cost.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978]
§ 668.209
Eligibility of work.
(a) Permanent work must have prior program approval in accordance with paragraph (a) of § 668.215 unless such work is performed as emergency repairs.
(b) Emergency repairs, including permanent work performed incidental to emergency repairs, and all PE may begin immediately and do not need prior program approval. Reimbursement shall be contingent upon the
work ultimately being approved in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of § 668.215.
(c) To qualify for emergency relief, the damaged or destroyed road or trail shall be designated as a Federal road.
(d) Replacement highway facilities are appropriate when it is not practical and economically feasible to repair or restore a damaged element to its preexisting condition. Emergency relief is limited to the cost of a new facility constructed to current design standards of comparable capacity and character to the destroyed facility. With respect to a bridge, a comparable facility is one which meets current geometric and construction standards for the type and volume of traffic it will carry during its design life.
(e) Emergency relief funds may participate to the extent of eligible repair costs when proposed projects contain betterments or other work not eligible for emergency funds.
(f) Work may include:
(1) Repair to, or reconstruction of, seriously damaged highway elements for a distance which would be within normal highway right-of-way limits, including necessary clearance of debris and other deposits in drainage courses, where such work would not be classed as heavy maintenance.
(2) Restoration of stream channels when the work is necessary for the satisfactory operation of the Federal road. The applicant must have responsibility and authority for maintenance and proper operation of stream channels restored.
(3) Betterments where clearly economically justified to prevent future recurring damage. Economic justification acceptable to the DFDE must weigh the cost of such betterments against the risk of eligible recurring damage and the cost of future repair.
(4) Actual PE and CE costs on approved projects.
(5) Emergency repairs.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
§ 668.211
Notification, damage assessment, and finding.
(a)
Notification.
During or as soon as possible after a natural disaster or catastrophic failure, each applicant will notify the DFDE of its tentative intent to apply for emergency relief and request that a Finding be made.
(b)
Acknowledgment.
The DFDE will promptly acknowledge the notification and briefly describe subsequent damage assessment, Finding, and application procedures.
(c)
Field report.
The applicant shall cooperate with the DFDE to promptly make a field survey of overall damage and in the preparation of a field report.
(d)
Finding.
Using the field report and other information deemed appropriate, the DFDE will promptly issue a Finding and if an Affirmative Finding is made, establish the date after which repair or reconstruction will be considered for emergency relief, and note the dates of the extraordinary natural occurrence or catastrophic event responsible for the damage or destruction.
(e)
Detailed site inspections.
(1) If an Affirmative Finding is made, the applicant shall cooperate with the DFDE to make a detailed inspection of each damage site.
(2) If it appears certain an Affirmative Finding will be made, the DFDE may elect to make these site inspections at the time damage is initially assessed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) The applicant shall make available to FHWA personnel conducting damage survey and estimate work maps depicting designated Federal roads in the affected area.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
§ 668.213
Application procedures.
(a) Based on the detailed site inspections and damage estimates prepared pursuant to paragraph (e) of § 668.211, the applicant will submit an application in the form of a letter to the DFDE which shall include a list of projects for which emergency relief is requested. The application shall be submitted within 3 months after an Affirmative Finding.
(b) The list of projects shall include emergency repairs, PE, and permanent work, and provide for each project a location, length, project number, type of damage, description of work with a
separate breakdown for betterments including a justification for those intended for emergency relief funding, proposed method of construction, estimated cost, and any other information requested by the DFDE.
(c) If the initial list of projects is incomplete, a subsequent list(s) of projects shall be forwarded to the DFDE for approval consideration as soon as possible.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
§ 668.215
Programming and project procedures.
(a) The DFDE will advise the applicant in writing which projects in the application, or in any subsequent submittals pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 668.213 are approved including any approval conditions. Approved projects shall constitute the approved program of projects (program).
(b) Plans, specifications, and estimates (PS
E) shall be developed based on work identified in the approved program.
(c) The DFDE will approve PS
E's, concur in the award of contracts or the rejection of bids, determine that construction by the force account method is in the public interest, and accept completed work in accordance with interagency procedures established by the DFDE.
(d) The applicant shall notify the DFDE in writing of the semi-annual status and completion of each emergency relief project constructed by applicant forces.
[43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]
Pt. 669

# PART 669—ENFORCEMENT OF HEAVY VEHICLE USE TAX
Sec.
669.1
Scope and purpose.
669.3
Policy.
669.5
Objective.
669.7
Certification requirement.
669.9
Certification content.
669.11
Certification submittal.
669.13
Effect of failure to certify or to adequately obtain proof-of-payment.
669.15
Procedure for the reduction of funds.
669.17
Compliance finding.
669.19
Reservation and reapportionment of funds.
669.21
Procedure for evaluating state compliance.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 141(c) and 315; 49 CFR 1.85.

# Source:
51 FR 25364, July 14, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 669.1
Scope and purpose.
To prescribe requirements for certification by the states that evidence of proof of payment is obtained either before vehicles subject to the Federal heavy vehicle use tax are lawfully registered or within 4 months after being lawfully registered if a suspension registration system is implemented.
§ 669.3
Policy.
It is the policy of the FHWA that each state require registrants of heavy trucks as described in 26 CFR part 41 to provide proof of payment of the vehicle use tax either before lawfully registering or within 4 months after lawfully registering such vehicles as provided for under a suspension registration system.
§ 669.5
Objective.
The objective of this regulation is to establish realistic and workable procedures for an annual certification process to provide suitable evidence that an effective program is being conducted by the states and to ensure that the states are not registering vehicles which have not been accounted for under the tax collection procedures instituted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
§ 669.7
Certification requirement.
The Governor of each State, or his or her designee, shall certify to the FHWA before January 1 of each year that it is obtaining proof-of-payment of the heavy vehicle use tax as a condition of registration in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 141(c). The certification shall cover the 12-month period ending September 30, except for the certification due on January 1, 2011, which shall cover the 4-month period from June 1, 2010 to September 30, 2010.
[75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010]
§ 669.9
Certification content.
The certification shall consist of the following elements:
(a) A statement by the Governor of the state or a state official designated by the Governor, that evidence of payment of the heavy vehicle use tax is being obtained as a condition of registration for all vehicles subject to such tax. The statement shall include the inclusive dates of the period during which payment of the heavy vehicle use tax was verified as a condition of registration.
(b) The certifying statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be worded as follows:
I (name of certifying official), (position, title), of the State of ( ), do hereby certify that evidence of payment of the heavy vehicle use tax pursuant to section 4481 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, is being obtained as a condition of registration for vehicles subject to such tax in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 141(c) and applicable IRS rules. This certification is for the period ( ) to ( ).
(c) For the initial certification, submit a copy of any state law or regulation pertaining to the implementation of 23 U.S.C. 141(c); for subsequent certifications, submit a copy of any new or revised laws and regulations pertaining to the implementation of 23 U.S.C. 141(c).
[51 FR 25364, July 14, 1986, as amended at 75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010]
§ 669.11
Certification submittal.
The Governor or an official designated by the Governor, shall each year submit the certification, including the supporting material specified in § 669.9 to the FHWA Division Administrator prior to January 1.
[51 FR 25364, July 14, 1986, as amended at 75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010]
§ 669.13
Effect of failure to certify or to adequately obtain proof-of-payment.
If a State fails to certify as required by this regulation or if the Secretary of Transportation determines that a State is not adequately obtaining proof-of-payment of the heavy vehicle use tax as a condition of registration notwithstanding the State's certification, Federal-aid highway funds apportioned to the State under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) for the next fiscal year shall be reduced in an amount up to 8 percent as determined by the Secretary.
[81 FR 32230, May 23, 2016]
§ 669.15
Procedure for the reduction of funds.
(a) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in nonconformity with the requirements of this part will be advised of the funds expected to be withheld from apportionment in accordance with § 669.13 and 23 U.S.C. 141(c), as part of the advance notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), normally not later than 90 days prior to final apportionment.
(b) A State that received a notice in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may within 30 days of its receipt of the advance notice of apportionments, submit documentation showing why it is in conformity with this Part. Documentation shall be submitted to the Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(c) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in nonconformity with the requirements of this part and 23 U.S.C. 141(c), based on FHWA's final determination, will receive notice of the funds being withheld from apportionment pursuant to section 669.3 and 23 U.S.C. 141(c), as part of the certification of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1 of each fiscal year.
[75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010]
§ 669.17
Compliance finding.
(a) If, following the conference or review of submitted materials described in § 669.15, the Administrator concludes that the state is in compliance, the Administrator shall issue a decision which is the final decision, and the matter shall be concluded.
(b) If, following the conference or review of information submitted under § 669.15, the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Secretary, concludes that the state is in noncompliance, the Administrator shall issue a decision, which is the final decision,
and the matter be concluded. The decision will be served on the Governor, or his/her designee.
§ 669.19
Reservation and reapportionment of funds.
(a) The Administrator may reserve from obligation up to 8 percent of a State's apportionment of funds under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1), pending a final determination.
(b) Funds withheld pursuant to a final administrative determination under this regulation shall be reapportioned to all other eligible States pursuant to the formulas of 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and the apportionment factors in effect at the time of the original apportionments, unless the Secretary determines, on the basis of information submitted by the State, that the state has come into conformity with this regulation prior to the final determination. If the Secretary determines that the state has come into conformity, the withheld funds shall be released to the state subject to the availability of such funds under 23 U.S.C. 118(b).
(c) The reapportionment of funds under paragraph (b) of this section shall be stayed during the pendency of any judicial review of the final determination of nonconformity.
[51 FR 25364, July 14, 1986, as amended at 75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010; 81 FR 32230, May 23, 2016]
§ 669.21
Procedure for evaluating state compliance.
The FHWA shall periodically review the State's procedures for complying with 23 U.S.C. 141(c), including an inspection of supporting documentation and records. In those States where a branch office of the State, a local jurisdiction, or a private entity is providing services to register motor vehicles including vehicles subject to HVUT, the State shall be responsible for ensuring that these entities comply with the requirements of this part concerning the collection and retention of evidence of payment of the HVUT as a condition of registration for vehicles subject to such tax and develop adequate procedures to maintain such compliance. The State or other responsible entity shall retain a copy of the receipted IRS Schedule 1 (Form 2290), or an acceptable substitute prescribed by 26 CFR part 41 sec. 41.6001-2 for a period of 1 year for purposes of evaluating State compliance with 23 U.S.C. 141(c) by the FHWA. The State may develop a software system to maintain copies or images of this proof-of-payment.
[75 FR 43409, July 26, 2010]
Pt. 680

# PART 680—NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
680.100
Purpose.
680.102
Applicability.
680.104
Definitions.
680.106
Installation, Operation, and Maintenance by Qualified Technicians of Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure.
680.108
Interoperability of Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure.
680.110
Traffic Control Devices or On-Premises Signs Acquired, Installed, or Operated.
680.112
Data Submittal.
680.114
Charging Network Connectivity of Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure.
680.116
Information on Publicly Available Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Locations, Pricing, Real-Time Availability, and Accessibility Through Mapping Applications.
680.118
Other Federal Requirements.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 109, 23 U.S.C. 315; Pub. L. 117-58, title VIII of division J.

# Source:
88 FR 12752, Feb. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 680.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to prescribe minimum standards and requirements for projects funded under the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Formula Program and projects for the construction of publicly accessible electric vehicle (EV) chargers that are funded with funds made available under Title 23, United States Code, including any EV charging infrastructure project funded with Federal funds that is treated as a project on a Federal-aid highway.
§ 680.102
Applicability.
Except where noted, these regulations apply to all NEVI Formula Program projects as well as projects for the construction of publicly accessible
EV chargers that are funded with funds made available under Title 23, United States Code, including any EV charging infrastructure project funded with Federal funds that is treated as a project on a Federal-aid highway.
§ 680.104
Definitions.
AC Level 2
means a charger that operates on a circuit from 208 volts to 240 volts and transfers alternating-current (AC) electricity to a device in an EV that converts alternating current to direct current to recharge an EV battery.
Alternative Fuel Corridor (AFC)
means national EV charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling corridors designated by FHWA pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 151.
CHAdeMO
means a type of protocol for a charging connector interface between an EV and a charger (see
www.chademo.com
). It specifies the physical, electrical, and communication requirements of the connector and mating vehicle inlet for direct-current (DC) fast charging. It is an abbreviation of “charge de move”, equivalent to “charge for moving.”
Charger
means a device with one or more charging ports and connectors for charging EVs. Also referred to as Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE).
Charging network
means a collection of chargers located on one or more property(ies) that are connected via digital communications to manage the facilitation of payment, the facilitation of electrical charging, and any related data requests.
Charging network provider
means the entity that operates the digital communication network that remotely manages the chargers. Charging network providers may also serve as charging station operators and/or manufacture chargers.
Charging port
means the system within a charger that charges one EV. A charging port may have multiple connectors, but it can provide power to charge only one EV through one connector at a time.
Charging station
means the area in the immediate vicinity of a group of chargers and includes the chargers, supporting equipment, parking areas adjacent to the chargers, and lanes for vehicle ingress and egress. A charging station could comprise only part of the property on which it is located.
Charging station operator
means the entity that owns the chargers and supporting equipment and facilities at one or more charging stations. Although this entity may delegate responsibility for certain aspects of charging station operation and maintenance to subcontractors, this entity retains responsibility for operation and maintenance of chargers and supporting equipment and facilities. In some cases, the charging station operator and the charging network provider are the same entity.
Combined Charging System (CCS)
means a standard connector interface that allows direct current fast chargers to connect to, communicate with, and charge EVs.
Community
means either a group of individuals living in geographic proximity to one another, or a geographically dispersed set of individuals (such as individuals with disabilities, migrant workers, or Native Americans), where either type of group experiences common conditions.
Connector
means the device that attaches an EV to a charging port in order to transfer electricity.
Contactless payment methods
means a secure method for consumers to purchase services using a debit card, credit card, smartcard, mobile application, or another payment device by using radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and near-field communication (NFC).
Cryptographic agility
means the capacity to rapidly update or switch between data encryption systems, algorithms, and processes without the need to redesign the protocol, software, system, or standard.
Direct Current Fast Charger (DCFC)
means a charger that enables rapid charging by delivering direct-current (DC) electricity directly to an EV's battery.
Disadvantaged communities (DACs)
mean census tracts or communities with common conditions identified by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Department of Energy that consider appropriate data, indices, and screening tools to determine
whether a specific community is disadvantaged based on a combination of variables that may include, but are not limited to, the following: low income, high and/or persistent poverty; high unemployment and underemployment; racial and ethnic residential segregation, particularly where the segregation stems from discrimination by government entities; linguistic isolation; high housing cost burden and substandard housing; distressed neighborhoods; high transportation cost burden and/or low transportation access; disproportionate environmental stressor burden and high cumulative impacts; limited water and sanitation access and affordability; disproportionate impacts from climate change; high energy cost burden and low energy access; jobs lost through the energy transition; and limited access to healthcare.
Distributed energy resource
means small, modular, energy generation and storage technologies that provide electric capacity or energy where it is needed.
Electric Vehicle (EV)
means a motor vehicle that is either partially or fully powered on electric power received from an external power source. For the purposes of this regulation, this definition does not include golf carts, electric bicycles, or other micromobility devices.
Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP)
refers to a comprehensive training program for the installation of electric vehicle supply equipment. For more information, refer to
https://evitp.org/.
Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE)
See definition of a charger.
Open Charge Point Interface (OCPI)
means an open-source communication protocol that governs the communication among multiple charging networks, other communication networks, and software applications to provide information and services for EV drivers.
Open Charge Point Protocol (OCPP)
means an open-source communication protocol that governs the communication between chargers and the charging networks that remotely manage the chargers.
Plug and Charge
means a method of initiating charging, whereby an EV charging customer plugs a connector into their vehicle and their identity is authenticated through digital certificates defined by ISO-15118, a charging session initiates, and a payment is transacted automatically, without any other customer actions required at the point of use.
Power Sharing
means dynamically limiting the charging power output of individual charging ports at the same charging station to ensure that the sum total power output to all EVs concurrently charging remains below a maximum power threshold. This is also called automated load management.
Private entity
means a corporation, partnership, company, other nongovernmental entity, or nonprofit organization.
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
means a system of processes, technologies, and policies to encrypt and digitally sign data. It involves the creation, management, and exchange of digital certificates that authenticate the identity of users, devices, or services to ensure trust and secure communication.
Secure payment method
means a type of payment processing that ensures a user's financial and personal information is protected from fraud and unauthorized access.
Smart charge management
means controlling the amount of power dispensed by chargers to EVs to meet customers' charging needs while also responding to external power demand or pricing signals to provide load management, resilience, or other benefits to the electric grid.
State EV infrastructure deployment plan
means the plan submitted to the FHWA by the State describing how it intends to use its apportioned NEVI Formula Program funds.
§ 680.106
Installation, operation, and maintenance by qualified technicians of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.
(a)
Procurement process transparency for the operation of EV charging stations.
States or other direct recipients shall ensure public transparency for how the price will be determined and set for EV charging and make available for public review the following:
(1) Summary of the procurement process used;
(2) Number of bids received;
(3) Identification of the awardee;
(4) Proposed contract to be executed with the awardee;
(5) Financial summary of contract payments suitable for public disclosure including price and cost data, in accordance with State law; and
(6) Any information describing how prices for EV charging are to be set under the proposed contract, in accordance with State law.
(b)
Number of charging ports.
(1) When including DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs, charging stations must have at least four network-connected DCFC charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs. (2) In other locations, EV charging stations must have at least four network-connected (either DCFC or AC Level 2 or a combination of DCFC and AC Level 2) charging ports and be capable of simultaneously charging at least four EVs.
(c)
Connector type.
All charging connectors must meet applicable industry standards. Each DCFC charging port must be capable of charging any CCS-compliant vehicle and each DCFC charging port must have at least one permanently attached CCS Type 1 connector. In addition, permanently attached CHAdeMO (
www.chademo.com
) connectors can be provided using only FY2022 NEVI Funds. Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a permanently attached J1772 connector and must charge any J1772-compliant vehicle.
(d)
Power level.
(1) DCFC charging ports must support output voltages between 250 volts DC and 920 volts DC. DCFCs located along and designed to serve users of designated AFCs must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 150 kilowatt (kW) and supply power according to an EV's power delivery request up to 150 kW, simultaneously from each charging port at a charging station. These corridor-serving DCFC charging stations may conduct power sharing so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's request for power up to 150 kW.
(2) Each AC Level 2 charging port must have a continuous power delivery rating of at least 6 kW and the charging station must be capable of providing at least 6 kW per port simultaneously across all AC ports. AC Level 2 chargers may conduct power sharing and/or participate in smart charge management programs so long as each charging port continues to meet an EV's demand for power up to 6 kW, unless the EV charging customer consents to accepting a lower power level.
(e)
Availability.
Charging stations located along and designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and sited at locations physically accessible to the public 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, year-round. Charging stations not located along or not designed to serve users of designated Alternative Fuel Corridors must be available for use and accessible to the public at least as frequently as the business operating hours of the site host. This section does not prohibit isolated or temporary interruptions in service or access because of maintenance or repairs or due to the exclusions outlined in § 680.116(b)(3).
(f)
Payment methods.
Unless charging is permanently provided free of charge to customers, charging stations must:
(1) Provide for secure payment methods, accessible to persons with disabilities, which at a minimum shall include a contactless payment method that accepts major debit and credit cards, and either an automated toll-free phone number or a short message/messaging system (SMS) that provides the EV charging customer with the option to initiate a charging session and submit payment;
(2) Not require a membership for use;
(3) Not delay, limit, or curtail power flow to vehicles on the basis of payment method or membership; and
(4) Provide access for users that are limited English proficient and accessibility for people with disabilities. Automated toll-free phone numbers and SMS payment options must clearly identify payment access for these populations.
(g)
Equipment certification.
States or other direct recipients must ensure
that all chargers are certified by an Occupational Safety and Health Administration Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory and that all AC Level 2 chargers are ENERGY STAR certified. DCFC and AC Level 2 chargers should be certified to the appropriate Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standards for EV charging system equipment.
(h)
Security.
States or other direct recipients must implement physical and cybersecurity strategies consistent with their respective State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plans to ensure charging station operations protect consumer data and protect against the risk of harm to, or disruption of, charging infrastructure and the grid.
(1) Physical security strategies may include topics such as lighting; siting and station design to ensure visibility from onlookers; driver and vehicle safety; video surveillance; emergency call boxes; fire prevention; charger locks; and strategies to prevent tampering and illegal surveillance of payment devices.
(2) Cybersecurity strategies may include the following topics: user identity and access management; cryptographic agility and support of multiple PKIs; monitoring and detection; incident prevention and handling; configuration, vulnerability, and software update management; third-party cybersecurity testing and certification; and continuity of operation when communication between the charger and charging network is disrupted.
(i)
Long-term stewardship.
States or other direct recipients must ensure that chargers are maintained in compliance with this part for a period of not less than 5 years from the initial date of operation.
(j)
Qualified technician.
States or other direct recipients shall ensure that the workforce installing, maintaining, and operating chargers has appropriate licenses, certifications, and training to ensure that the installation and maintenance of chargers is performed safely by a qualified and increasingly diverse workforce of licensed technicians and other laborers. Further:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, all electricians installing, operating, or maintaining EVSE must meet one of the following requirements:
(i) Certification from the EVITP.
(ii) Graduation or a continuing education certificate from a registered apprenticeship program for electricians that includes charger-specific training and is developed as a part of a national guideline standard approved by the Department of Labor in consultation with the Department of Transportation.
(2) For projects requiring more than one electrician, at least one electrician must meet the requirements above, and at least one electrician must be enrolled in an electrical registered apprenticeship program.
(3) All other onsite, non-electrical workers directly involved in the installation, operation, and maintenance of chargers must have graduated from a registered apprenticeship program or have appropriate licenses, certifications, and training as required by the State.
(k)
Customer service.
States or other direct recipients must ensure that EV charging customers have mechanisms to report outages, malfunctions, and other issues with charging infrastructure. Charging station operators must enable access to accessible platforms that provide multilingual services. States or other direct recipients must comply with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirements and multilingual access when creating reporting mechanisms.
(l)
Customer data privacy.
Charging station operators must collect, process, and retain only that personal information strictly necessary to provide the charging service to a consumer, including information to complete the charging transaction and to provide the location of charging stations to the consumer. Chargers and charging networks should be compliant with appropriate Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) for the processing, transmission, and storage of cardholder data. Charging Station Operators must also take reasonable measures to safeguard consumer data.
(m)
Use of program income.
(1) Any net income from revenue from the sale, use, lease, or lease renewal of real property acquired shall be used for
Title 23, United States Code, eligible projects.
(2) For purposes of program income or revenue earned from the operation of an EV charging station, the State or other direct recipient should ensure that all revenues received from operation of the EV charging facility are used only for:
(i) Debt service with respect to the EV charging station project, including funding of reasonable reserves and debt service on refinancing;
(ii) A reasonable return on investment of any private person financing the EV charging station project, as determined by the State or other direct recipient;
(iii) Any costs necessary for the improvement and proper operation and maintenance of the EV charging station, including reconstruction, resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation;
(iv) If the EV charging station is subject to a public-private partnership agreement, payments that the party holding the right to the revenues owes to the other party under the public-private partnership agreement; and
(v) Any other purpose for which Federal funds may be obligated under Title 23, United States Code.
§ 680.108
Interoperability of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.
(a)
Charger-to-EV communication.
Chargers must conform to ISO 15118-3 and must have hardware capable of implementing both ISO 15118-2 and ISO 15118-20. By February 28, 2024, charger software must conform to ISO 15118-2 and be capable of Plug and Charge. Conformance testing for charger software and hardware should follow ISO 15118-4 and ISO 15118-5, respectively.
(b)
Charger-to-Charger-Network Communication.
Chargers must conform to Open Charge Point Protocol (OCPP) 1.6J or higher. By February 28, 2024, chargers must conform to OCPP 2.0.1.
(c)
Charging-Network-to-Charging-Network Communication.
By February 28, 2024, charging networks must be capable of communicating with other charging networks in accordance with Open Charge Point Interface (OCPI) 2.2.1.
(d)
Network switching capability.
Chargers must be designed to securely switch charging network providers without any changes to hardware.
§ 680.110
Traffic control devices or on-premises signs acquired, installed, or operated.
(a)
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
All traffic control devices must comply with part 655 of this subchapter.
(b)
On-premises signs.
On-property or on-premise advertising signs must comply with part 750 of this chapter.
§ 680.112
Data submittal.
(a)
Quarterly data submittal.
States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on a quarterly basis in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any quarterly data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.
(1) Charging station identifier that the following data can be associated with. This must be the same charging station name or identifier used to identify the charging station in data made available to third-parties in § 680.116(c)(1);
(2) Charging port identifier. This must be the same charging port identifier used to identify the charging port in data made available to third-parties in § 680.116(c)(8)(ii);
(3) Charging session start time, end time, and any error codes associated with an unsuccessful charging session by port;
(4) Energy (kWh) dispensed to EVs per charging session by port;
(5) Peak session power (kW) by port;
(6) Payment method associated with each charging session;
(7) Charging station port uptime, T_outage, and T_excluded calculated in accordance with the equation in § 680.116(b) for each of the previous 3 months;
(8) Duration (minutes) of each outage.
(b)
Annual data submittal.
Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are submitted on an annual basis, on or before March 1, in a manner prescribed by FHWA. Any annual data made public will be aggregated and anonymized
to protect confidential business information.
(1) Maintenance and repair cost per charging station for the previous year.
(2) For private entities identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, identification of and participation in any State or local business opportunity certification programs including but not limited to minority-owned businesses, Veteran-owned businesses, woman-owned businesses, and businesses owned by economically disadvantaged individuals.
(c)
One-time data submittal.
This paragraph (c) applies only to both the NEVI Formula Program projects and grants awarded under 23 U.S.C. 151(f) for projects that are for EV charging stations located along and designed to serve the users of designated AFCs. Beginning in 2024, States and other direct recipients must ensure the following data are collected and submitted once for each charging station, on or before March 1 of each year, in a manner prescribed by the FHWA. Any one-time data made public will be aggregated and anonymized to protect confidential business information.
(1) The name and address of the private entity(ies) involved in the operation and maintenance of chargers.
(2) Distributed energy resource installed capacity, in kW or kWh as appropriate, of asset by type (e.g., stationary battery, solar, etc.) per charging station; and
(3) Charging station real property acquisition cost, charging equipment acquisition and installation cost, and distributed energy resource acquisition and installation cost; and
(4) Aggregate grid connection and upgrade costs paid to the electric utility as part of the project, separated into:
(i) Total distribution and system costs, such as extensions to overhead/underground lines, and upgrades from single-phase to three-phase lines; and
(ii) Total service costs, such as the cost of including poles, transformers, meters, and on-service connection equipment.
(d)
Community engagement outcomes report.
This paragraph (d) only applies to the NEVI Formula Program projects. States must include in the State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan a description of the community engagement activities conducted as part of the development and approval of their most recently-submitted State EV Infrastructure Deployment Plan, including engagement with DACs.
§ 680.114
Charging network connectivity of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.
(a)
Charger-to-charger-network communication.
(1) Chargers must communicate with a charging network via a secure communication method. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPP requirements.
(2) Chargers must have the ability to receive and implement secure, remote software updates and conduct real-time protocol translation, encryption and decryption, authentication, and authorization in their communication with charging networks.
(3) Charging networks must perform and chargers must support remote charger monitoring, diagnostics, control, and smart charge management.
(4) Chargers and charging networks must securely measure, communicate, store, and report energy and power dispensed, real-time charging-port status, real-time price to the customer, and historical charging-port uptime.
(b)
Interoperability.
See § 680.108 for interoperability requirements.
(c)
Charging-network-to-charging-network communication.
A charging network must be capable of communicating with other charging networks to enable an EV driver to use a single method of identification to charge at Charging Stations that are a part of multiple charging networks. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPI requirements.
(d)
Charging-network-to-grid communication.
Charging networks must be capable of secure communication with electric utilities, other energy providers, or local energy management systems.
(e)
Disrupted network connectivity.
Chargers must remain functional if communication with the charging network is temporarily disrupted, such that they initiate and complete charging sessions, providing the minimum required power level defined in § 680.106(d).
§ 680.116
Information on publicly available electric vehicle charging infrastructure locations, pricing, real time availability, and accessibility through mapping.
(a)
Communication of price.
(1) The price for charging must be displayed prior to initiating a charging transaction and be based on the price for electricity to charge in $/kWh. If the price for charging is not currently based on the price for electricity to charge an Electric Vehicle in $/kWh, the requirements of this subparagraph must be satisfied within one year from February 28, 2023.
(2) The price for charging displayed and communicated via the charging network must be the real-time price (
i.e.,
price at that moment in time). The price at the start of the session cannot change during the session.
(3) Price structure including any other fees in addition to the price for electricity to charge must be clearly displayed and explained.
(b)
Minimum uptime.
States or other direct recipients must ensure that each charging port has an average annual uptime of greater than 97%.
(1) A charging port is considered “up” when its hardware and software are both online and available for use, or in use, and the charging port successfully dispenses electricity in accordance with requirements for minimum power level (see § 680.106(d)).
(2) Charging port uptime must be calculated on a monthly basis for the previous twelve months.
(3) Charging port uptime percentage must be calculated using the following equation:
µ = ((525,600−(T_outage−T_excluded))/525,600) × 100
where:
µ = port uptime percentage,
T_outage = total minutes of outage in previous year, and
T_excluded = total minutes of outage in previous year caused by the following reasons outside the charging station operator's control, provided that the charging station operator can demonstrate that the charging port would otherwise be operational: electric utility service interruptions, failure to charge or meet the EV charging customer's expectation for power delivery due to the fault of the vehicle, scheduled maintenance, vandalism, or natural disasters. Also excluded are hours outside of the identified hours of operation of the charging station.
(c)
Third-party data sharing.
States or other direct recipients must ensure that the following data fields are made available, free of charge, to third-party software developers, via application programming interface:
(1) Unique charging station name or identifier;
(2) Address (street address, city, State, and zip code) of the property where the charging station is located;
(3) Geographic coordinates in decimal degrees of exact charging station location;
(4) Charging station operator name;
(5) Charging network provider name;
(6) Charging station status (operational, under construction, planned, or decommissioned);
(7) Charging station access information:
(i) Charging station access type (public or limited to commercial vehicles);
(ii) Charging station access days/times (hours of operation for the charging station);
(8) Charging port information:
(i) Number of charging ports;
(ii) Unique port identifier;
(iii) Connector types available by port;
(iv) Charging level by port (DCFC, AC Level 2, etc.);
(v) Power delivery rating in kilowatts by port;
(vi) Accessibility by vehicle with trailer (pull-through stall) by port (yes/no);
(vii) Real-time status by port in terms defined by Open Charge Point Interface 2.2.1;
(9) Pricing and payment information:
(i) Pricing structure;
(ii) Real-time price to charge at each charging port, in terms defined by Open Charge Point Interface 2.2.1; and
(iii) Payment methods accepted at charging station.
§ 680.118
Other Federal requirements.
All applicable Federal statutory and regulatory requirements apply to the EV charger projects. These requirements include, but are not limited to:
(a) All statutory and regulatory requirements that are applicable to funds apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code, and the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply. This includes the applicable requirements of 23, United States Code, and Title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, such as the applicable Buy America requirements at 23 U.S.C. 313 and Build America, Buy America Act (Pub. L. No 117-58, div. G sections 70901-70927).
(b) As provided at 23 U.S.C. 109(s)(2), projects to install EV chargers are treated as if the project is located on a Federal-aid highway. As a project located on a Federal-aid highway, 23 U.S.C. 113 applies and Davis Bacon Federal wage rate requirements included at subchapter IV of chapter 31 of Title 40, U.S.C., must be paid for any project funded with NEVI Formula Program funds.
(c) The American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and implementing regulations, apply to EV charging stations by prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability by public and private entities. EV charging stations must comply with applicable accessibility standards adopted by the Department of Transportation into its ADA regulations (49 CFR part 37) in 2006, and adopted by the Department of Justice into its ADA regulations (28 CFR parts 35 and 36) in 2010.
(d) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and implementing regulations, apply to this program to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(e) All applicable requirements of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act), and implementing regulations, apply to this program.
(f) The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program does not apply to the NEVI Formula Funds; however, the DBE program may apply to other programs apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code.
(g) The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act, and implementing regulations, apply to this program by establishing minimum standards for federally funded programs and projects that involve the acquisition of real property (real estate) or the displacement or relocation of persons from their homes, businesses, or farms.
(h) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), the Council on Environmental Quality's NEPA implementing regulations, and applicable agency NEPA procedures apply to this program by establishing procedural requirements to ensure that Federal agencies consider the consequences of their proposed actions on the human environment and inform the public about their decision making for major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.

# SUBCHAPTER H—RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ENVIRONMENT
Pt. 710

# PART 710—RIGHT-OF-WAY AND REAL ESTATE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
710.101
Purpose.
710.103
Applicability.
710.105
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Program Administration
710.201
Grantee and subgrantee responsibilities.
710.203
Title 23 funding and reimbursement.

# Subpart C—Project Development
710.301
General.
710.303
Project authorization and agreements.
710.305
Acquisition.
710.307
Construction advertising.
710.309
Design-build projects.

# Subpart D—Real Property Management
710.401
General.
710.403
Management.
710.405
ROW use agreements.
710.407
[Reserved]
710.409
Disposal of excess real property.

# Subpart E—Property Acquisition Alternatives
710.501
Early acquisition.
710.503
Protective buying and hardship acquisition.
710.505
Real property donations.
710.507
State and local contributions.
710.509
Functional replacement of real property in public ownership.
710.511
Transportation Alternatives.

# Subpart F—Federal Assistance Program
710.601
Federal land transfers.
710.603
Direct Federal acquisition.

# Subpart G—Concession Agreements
710.701
Purpose.
710.703
Definitions.
710.705
Applicability.
710.707
Fair market value.
710.709
Determination of Fair market value.

# Authority:
Secs.1302 and 1321, Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405. Sec. 1307, Pub. L. 105-178, 112 Stat. 107; 23 U.S.C. 101(a), 107, 108, 111, 114, 133, 142(f), 156, 204, 210, 308, 315, 317, and 323; 42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.,
4633, 4651-4655; 2 CFR 200.311; 49 CFR 1.48(b) and (cc), parts 21 and 24; 23 CFR 1.32.

# Source:
64 FR 71290, Dec. 21, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.101
Purpose.
The primary purpose of the requirements in this part is to ensure the prudent use of Federal funds under title 23, United States Code, in the acquisition, management, and disposal of real property. In addition to the requirements of this part, other real property related provisions apply and are found at 49 CFR part 24.
§ 710.103
Applicability.
(a) This part applies whenever title 23, United States Code, grant funding is used, including when grant funds are expended or participate in project costs incurred by the State or other Title 23 grantee. This part applies to programs and projects administered by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and, unless otherwise stated in this part, to all property purchased with title 23 grant funds or incorporated into a project carried out with grant funding provided under title 23, except property for which the title is vested in the United States upon project completion. Grantees are accountable to FHWA for complying with, and are responsible for ensuring their subgrantees, contractors, and other project partners comply with applicable Federal laws, including this part.
(b) The parties responsible for ROW and real estate activities, and for compliance with applicable Federal requirements, can vary by the nature of the responsibility or the underlying activity. Throughout this part, the FHWA identifies the parties subject to a particular provision through the use of terms of reference defined as set forth in § 710.105. It is important to refer to those definitions, such as “State Department of Transportation
(SDOT),” “grantee,” “subgrantee,” “State agency” and “acquiring agency,” when applying the provisions in this part.
(c) Where title 23 funds are transferred to other Federal agencies to administer, those agencies' ROW and real estate procedures may be utilized. Additional guidance is available electronically at the FHWA Real Estate Services Web site:
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/realestate/index.htm.
§ 710.105
Definitions.
(a) Terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and 49 CFR part 24 have the same meaning where used in this part, except as modified in this section.
(b) The following terms where used in this part have the following meaning:
Access rights
mean the right of ingress to and egress from a property to a public way.
Acquiring agency
means a State agency, other entity, or person acquiring real property for title 23, United States Code, purposes. When an acquiring agency acquires real property interests that will be incorporated into a project eligible for title 23 grant funds, the acquiring agency must comply with Federal real estate and ROW requirements applicable to the grant.
Acquisition
means activities to obtain an interest in, and possession of, real property.
Damages
means the loss in the value attributable to remainder property due to the severance or consequential damages, as limited by State law, that arise when only part of an owner's real property is acquired.
Disposal
means the transfer by sale or other conveyance of permanent rights in excess real property, when the real property interest is not currently or in the foreseeable future needed for highway ROW or other uses eligible for funding under title 23 of the United States Code. A disposal must meet the requirements contained in § 710.403(b) of this part. The term “disposal” includes actions by a grantee, or its subgrantees, in the nature of relinquishment, abandonment, vacation, discontinuance, and disclaimer of real property or any rights therein.
Donation
means the voluntary transfer of privately owned real property, by a property owner who has been informed in writing by the acquiring agency of rights and benefits available to owners under the Uniform Act and this section, for the benefit of a public transportation project without compensation or with compensation at less than fair market value.
Early acquisition
means acquisition of real property interests by an acquiring agency prior to completion of the environmental review process for a proposed transportation project, as provided under 23 CFR 710.501 and 23 U.S.C. 108.
Early Acquisition Project
means a project for the acquisition of real property interests prior to the completion of the environmental review process for the transportation project into which the acquired property will be incorporated, as authorized under 23 U.S.C. 108 and implemented under § 710.501 of this part. It may consist of the acquisition of real property interests in a specific parcel, a portion of a transportation corridor, or an entire transportation corridor.
Easement
means an interest in real property that conveys a right to use or control a portion of an owner's property or a portion of an owner's rights in the property either temporarily or permanently.
Excess real property
means a real property interest not needed currently or in the foreseeable future for transportation purposes or other uses eligible for funding under title 23, United States Code.
Federal-aid project
means a project funded in whole or in part under, or requiring an FHWA approval pursuant to provisions in chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code.
Federally assisted
means a project or program that receives grant funds under title 23, United States Code.
Grantee
means the party that is the direct recipient of title 23 funds and is accountable to FHWA for the use of the funds and for compliance with applicable Federal requirements.
Mitigation property
means real property interests acquired to mitigate for impacts of a project eligible for funding under title 23.
Option
means the purchase of a right to acquire real property within an
agreed-to period of time for an agreed-to amount of compensation or through an agreed-to method by which compensation will be calculated.
Person
means any individual, family, partnership, corporation, or association.
Real Estate Acquisition Management Plan (RAMP)
means a written document that details how a non-State department of transportation grantee, subgrantee, or design-build contractor will administer the title 23 ROW and real estate requirements for its project or program of projects. The document must be approved by the SDOT, or by the funding agency in the case of a non-SDOT grantee, before any acquisition work may begin. It must lay out in detail how the acquisition and relocation assistance programs will be accomplished and any anticipated issues that may arise during the process. If relocations are reasonably expected as part of the title 23 projects or program, the Real Estate Acquisition Management Plan (RAMP) must address relocation assistance and related procedures.
Real property
or
real property interest
means any interest in land and any improvements thereto, including fee and less-than-fee interests such as: temporary and permanent easements, air or access rights, access control, options, and other contractual rights to acquire an interest in land, rights to control use or development, leases, and licenses, and any other similar action to acquire or preserve ROW for a transportation facility. As used in this part, the terms “real property” and “real property interest” are synonymous unless otherwise specified.
Relinquishment
means the conveyance of a portion of a highway ROW or facility by a grantee under title 23, United States Code, or its subgrantee, to another government agency for continued transportation use. (See part 620, subpart B of this chapter.)
Right-of-way (ROW)
means real property and rights therein obtained for the construction, operation, maintenance, or mitigation of a transportation or related facility funded under title 23, United States Code.
ROW manual
means an operations manual that establishes a grantee's acquisition, valuation, relocation, and property management and disposal requirements and procedures, and has been approved in accordance with § 710.201(c).
ROW use agreement
means real property interests, defined by an agreement, as evidenced by instruments such as a lease, license, or permit, for use of real property interests for non-highway purposes where the use is in the public interest, consistent with the continued operation, maintenance, and safety of the facility, and such use will not impair the highway or interfere with the free and safe flow of traffic (see also 23 CFR 1.23). These rights may be granted only for a specified period of time because the real property interest may be needed in the future for highway purposes or other purposes eligible for funding under title 23.
Settlement
means the result of negotiations based on fair market value in which the amount of just compensation is agreed upon for the purchase of real property or an interest therein. This term includes the following:
(1) An
administrative settlement
is a settlement reached prior to filing a condemnation proceeding based on value related evidence, administrative consideration, or other factors approved by an authorized agency official.
(2) A
legal settlement
is a settlement reached by an authorized legal representative or a responsible official of the acquiring agency who has the legal power vested in him by State law, after filing a condemnation proceeding, including agreements resulting from mediation and stipulated settlements approved by the court in which the condemnation action had been filed.
(3) A
court settlement
or
court award
is any decision by a court that follows a contested trial or hearing before a jury, commission, judge, or other legal entity having the authority to establish the amount of just compensation for a taking under the laws of eminent domain.
State agency
means: A department, agency, or instrumentality of a State or of a political subdivision of a State; any department, agency, or instrumentality of two or more States or of two or more political subdivisions of a
State or States; or any person who has the authority to acquire property by eminent domain, for public purposes, under State law.
State department of transportation (SDOT)
means the State highway department, transportation department, or other State transportation agency or commission to which title 23, United States Code, funds are apportioned.
Stewardship/Oversight Agreement
means the written agreement between the SDOT and FHWA that defines the respective roles and responsibilities of FHWA and the State for carrying out certain project review, approval, and oversight responsibilities under title 23, including those activities specified by 23 U.S.C. 106(c)(3).
Subgrantee
means a government agency or legal entity that enters into an agreement with a grantee to carry out part or all of the activity funded by title 23 grant funds. A subgrantee is accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds and for compliance with applicable Federal requirements.
Temporary development restriction
means the purchase of a right to temporarily control or restrict development or redevelopment of real property. This right is for an agreed to time period, defines specifically what is restricted or controlled, and is for an agreed to amount of compensation.
Transportation project
means any highway project, public transportation capital project, multimodal project, or other project that requires the approval of the Secretary. As used in this part, the term “transportation project” does not include an Early Acquisition Project as defined in this section.
Uneconomic remnant
means a remainder property which the acquiring agency has determined has little or no utility or value to the owner.
Uniform Act
means the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894; primarily codified in 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
), and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.

# Subpart B—Program Administration

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.201
Grantee and subgrantee responsibilities.
(a)
Program oversight.
States administer the Federal-aid highway program, funded under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, through their SDOTs. The SDOT shall have overall responsibility for the acquisition, management, and disposal of real property interests on its Federal-aid projects, including when those projects are carried out by the SDOT's subgrantees or contractors. This responsibility shall include ensuring compliance with the requirements of this part and other Federal laws, including regulations. Non-SDOT grantees of funds under title 23 must comply with the requirements under this part, except as otherwise expressly provided in this part, and are responsible for ensuring compliance by their subgrantees and contractors with the requirements of this part and other Federal laws, including regulations.
(b)
Organization.
Each grantee and subgrantee, including any other acquiring agency acting on behalf of a grantee or subgrantee, shall be adequately staffed, equipped, and organized to discharge its real property related responsibilities.
(c)
ROW manual.
(1) Every grantee must ensure that its title 23-funded projects are carried out using an FHWA-approved and up-to-date ROW manual or RAMP that is consistent with applicable Federal requirements, including the Uniform Act and this part. Each SDOT that receives funding under title 23, United States Code, shall maintain an approved and up-to-date ROW manual describing its ROW organization, policies, and procedures. Non-SDOT grantees may use one of the procedures in paragraph (d) to meet the requirements in this paragraph; however, the ROW manual options can only be used with SDOT approval and permission. The ROW manual shall describe functions and procedures for all phases of the ROW program, including appraisal and appraisal review, waiver
valuation, negotiation and eminent domain, property management, relocation assistance, administrative settlements, legal settlements, and oversight of its subgrantees and contractors. The ROW manual shall also specify procedures to prevent conflict of interest and avoid fraud, waste, and abuse. The ROW manual shall be in sufficient detail and depth to guide the grantee, its employees, and others involved in acquiring, managing, and disposing of real property interests. Grantees, subgrantees, and their contractors must comply with current FHWA requirements whether or not the requirements are included in the FHWA-approved ROW manual.
(2) The SDOT's ROW manual must be developed and updated, as a minimum, to meet the following schedule:
(i) The SDOTs shall prepare and submit for approval by FHWA an up-to-date ROW Manual by no later than August 23, 2018.
(ii) Every 5 years thereafter, the chief administrative officer of the SDOT shall certify to the FHWA that the current SDOT ROW manual conforms to existing practices and contains necessary procedures to ensure compliance with Federal and State real estate law and regulation, including this part.
(iii) The SDOT shall update its ROW manual periodically to reflect changes in operations and submit the updated materials for approval by the FHWA.
(d)
ROW manual alternatives.
Non-SDOT grantees, and all subgrantees, design-build contractors, and other acquiring agencies carrying out a project funded by a grant under title 23, United States Code, must demonstrate that they will use FHWA-approved ROW procedures for acquisition and other real estate activities, and that they have the ability to comply with current FHWA requirements, including this part. This can be done through any of the following methods:
(1) Certification in writing that the acquiring agency will adopt and use the FHWA-approved SDOT ROW manual;
(2) Submission of the acquiring agency's own ROW manual to the grantee for review and determination whether it complies with Federal and State requirements, together with a certification that once the reviewing agency approves the manual, the acquiring agency will use the approved ROW manual; or
(3)(i) Submission of a RAMP setting forth the procedures the acquiring agency or design-build contractor intends to follow for a specified project or group of projects, along with a certification that if the reviewing agency approves the RAMP, the acquiring agency or design-build contractor will follow the approved RAMP for the specified program or project(s). The use of a RAMP is appropriate for a subgrantee, non-SDOT grantee, or design-build contractor if that party infrequently carries out title 23 programs or projects, the program or project is non-controversial, and the project is not complex.
(ii) Subgrantees, design-build contractors, and other acquiring agencies carrying out a project for an SDOT submit the required certification and information to the SDOT, and the SDOT will review and make a determination on behalf of FHWA. Non-SDOT grantees submit the required certification and information directly to FHWA. Non-SDOT grantees are responsible for submitting to FHWA the required certification and information for any subgrantee, contractor, and other acquiring agency carrying out a project for the non-SDOT grantee.
(e)
Record keeping.
The acquiring agency shall maintain adequate records of its acquisition and property management activities.
(1) Acquisition records, including records related to owner or tenant displacements, and property inventories of improvements acquired shall be in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this part and 49 CFR part 24. These records shall be retained at least 3 years from the later of either:
(i) The date the SDOT or other grantee receives Federal reimbursement of the final payment made to each owner of a property and to each person displaced from a property; or
(ii) The date of reimbursement for early acquisitions or credit toward the State share of a project is approved based on early acquisition activities under § 710.501.
(2) Property management records shall include inventories of real property interests considered excess to project or program needs, as well as all authorized ROW use agreements for real property acquired with title 23 funds or incorporated into a program or project that received title 23 funding.
(f)
Procurement.
Contracting for all activities required in support of an SDOT's or other grantee's ROW projects or programs through the use of private consultants and other services shall conform to 2 CFR 200.317, except to the extent that the procurement is required to adhere to requirements under 23 U.S.C. 112(b)(2) and 23 CFR part 172 for engineering and design related consultant services.
(g)
Use of other public land acquisition organizations, conservation organizations, or private consultants.
The grantee may enter into written agreements with other State, county, municipal, or local public land acquisition organizations, conservation organizations, private consultants, or other persons to carry out its authorities under this part. Such organizations, firms, or persons must comply with the grantee's ROW manual or RAMP as approved in accordance with paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section. The grantee shall monitor any such real property interest acquisition activities to ensure compliance with State and Federal law, and is responsible for informing such persons of all such requirements and for imposing sanctions in cases of material non-compliance.
(h)
Assignment of FHWA approval actions to an SDOT.
The SDOT and FHWA will agree in their Stewardship/Oversight Agreement on the scope of property-related oversight and approvals under this part that will be performed directly by FHWA and those that FHWA will assign to the SDOT. This assignment provision does not apply to other grantees of title 23 funds. The content of the most recent Stewardship/Oversight Agreement shall be reflected in the FHWA-approved SDOT ROW manual. The agreement, and thus the SDOT ROW manual, will indicate which Federal-aid projects require submission of materials for FHWA review and approval. The FHWA retains responsibility for any approval action not expressly assigned to the SDOT in the Stewardship/Oversight Agreement.
§ 710.203
Title 23 funding and reimbursement.
(a)
General conditions.
Except as otherwise provided in § 710.501 for early acquisition, a State agency only may acquire real property, including mitigation property, with title 23 grant funds if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The project for which the real property is acquired is included in an approved Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP);
(2) The grantee has executed a project agreement or other agreement recognized under title 23 reflecting the Federal funding terms and conditions for the project;
(3) Preliminary acquisition activities, including a title search, appraisal, appraisal review and waiver valuation preparation, preliminary property map preparation and preliminary relocation planning activities, limited to searching for comparable properties, identifying replacement neighborhoods and identifying available public services, can be advanced under preliminary engineering, as defined in § 646.204 of this chapter, prior to completion of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
) review, while other work involving contact with affected property owners for purposes of negotiation and relocation assistance must normally be deferred until after NEPA approval, except as provided in § 710.501, early acquisition; and in § 710.503 for protective buying and hardship acquisition; and
(4) Costs have been incurred in conformance with State and Federal requirements.
(b)
Direct eligible costs.
Federal funds may only participate in direct costs that are identified specifically as an authorized acquisition activity such as the costs of acquiring the real property incorporated into the final project and the associated direct costs of acquisition, except in the case of a State that has an approved indirect cost allocation plan as stated in § 710.203(d) or specifically provided by statute. Participation is provided for:
(1)
Real property acquisition.
Usual costs and disbursements associated with real property acquisition as required under the laws of the State, including the following:
(i) The cost of contracting for private acquisition services or the cost associated with the use of local public agencies;
(ii) Ordinary and reasonable costs of acquisition activities, such as, appraisal, waiver valuation development, appraisal review, cost estimates, relocation planning, ROW plan preparation, title work, and similar necessary ROW related work;
(iii) The compensation paid for the real property interest and costs normally associated with completing the purchase, such as document fees and document stamps. The costs of acquiring options and other contractual rights to acquire an interest in land, rights to control use or development, leases, ROWs, and any other similar action to acquire or preserve rights-of way for a transportation facility are eligible costs when FHWA determines such costs are actual, reasonable and necessary costs. Costs under this paragraph do not include salary and related expenses for an acquiring agency's employees (see payroll-related expenses in paragraph (b)(5) of this section);
(iv) The cost of administrative settlements in accordance with 49 CFR 24.102(i), legal settlements, court awards, and costs incidental to the condemnation process. This includes reasonable acquiring agency attorney's fees, but excludes attorney's fees for other parties except where required by State law (including an order of a court of competent jurisdiction) or approved by FHWA;
(v) The cost of minimum payments and waiver valuation amounts included in the approved ROW manual or approved RAMP; and
(vi) Ordinary and reasonable costs associated with closing, and costs of finalizing the acquisition.
(2)
Relocation assistance and payments.
Usual costs and disbursements associated with the following:
(i) Relocation assistance and payments required under 49 CFR part 24; and
(ii) Relocation assistance and payments provided under the laws of the State that may exceed the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, except for relocation assistance and payments provided to aliens not lawfully present in the United States.
(3)
Damages.
The cost of severance and/or consequential damages to remaining real property resulting from a partial acquisition, actual or constructive, of real property for a project based on elements compensable under State law.
(4)
Property management.
The net cost of managing real property prior to and during construction to provide for maintenance, protection, and the clearance and disposal of improvements until final project acceptance.
(5)
Payroll-related expenses.
Salary and related expenses (compensation for personal services) of employees of an acquiring agency for work on a project funded by a title 23 grant are eligible costs in accordance with 2 CFR part 225 (formerly OMB Circular A-87), as are salary and related expenses of a grantee's employees for work with an acquiring agency or a contractor to ensure compliance with Federal requirements on a title 23 project if the work is dedicated to a specific project and documented in accordance with 2 CFR part 225.
(6)
Property not incorporated into a project funded under title 23, United States Code.
The cost of property not incorporated into a project may be eligible for reimbursement in the following circumstances:
(i)
General.
Costs for construction material sites, property acquisitions to a logical boundary, eligible Transportation Alternatives (TA) projects, sites for disposal of hazardous materials, environmental mitigation, environmental banking activities, or last resort housing; and
(ii)
Easements and alternate access not incorporated into the ROW.
The cost of acquiring easements and alternate access points necessary for highway construction and maintenance outside the approved ROW limits for permanent or temporary use.
(7)
Uneconomic remnants.
The cost of uneconomic remnants purchased in connection with the acquisition of a
partial taking for the project as required by the Uniform Act.
(8)
Access rights.
Payment for full or partial control of access on an existing road or highway (
i.e.,
one not on a new location), based on elements compensable under applicable State law. Participation does not depend on another real property interest being acquired or on further construction of the highway facility.
(9)
Utility and railroad property.
(i) The cost to replace operating real property owned by a displaced utility or railroad and conveyed to an acquiring agency for a project, as provided in 23 CFR part 140, subpart I, Reimbursement for Railroad Work, and 23 CFR part 645, subpart A, Utility Relocations, Adjustments and Reimbursement, and 23 CFR part 646, subpart B, Railroad-Highway Projects; and
(ii) Participation in the cost of acquiring non-operating utility or railroad real property shall be in the same manner as that used in the acquisition of other privately owned property.
(c)
Withholding payment.
The FHWA may withhold payment under the conditions described in 23 CFR 1.36 for failure to comply with Federal law or regulation, State law, or under circumstances of waste, fraud, and abuse.
(d)
Indirect costs.
Indirect costs may be claimed under the provisions of 2 CFR part 225 (formerly OMB Circular A-87). Indirect costs may be included on billings after the indirect cost allocation plan has been prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 225 and approved by FHWA, other cognizant Federal agency, or, in the case of an SDOT subgrantee without a rate approved by a cognizant Federal agency, by the SDOT. Indirect costs for an SDOT may include costs of providing program-level guidance, consultation, and oversight to other acquiring agencies and contractors where ROW activities on title 23-funded projects are performed by non-SDOT personnel.

# Subpart C—Project Development

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.301
General.
The project development process typically follows a sequence of actions and approvals in order to qualify for funding. The key steps in this process typically are planning, environmental review, project agreement/authorization, acquisition, construction advertising, and construction.
§ 710.303
Project authorization and agreements.
As a condition of Federal funding under title 23, the grantee shall obtain FHWA authorization in writing or electronically before proceeding with any real property acquisition using title 23 funds, including early acquisitions under § 710.501(e) and hardship acquisition and protective buying under § 710.503. For projects funded under chapter 1, title 23, United States Code, the grantee must prepare a project agreement in accordance with 23 CFR part 630, subpart A. Authorizations and agreements shall be based on an acceptable estimate for the cost of acquisition.
§ 710.305
Acquisition.
(a)
General.
The process of acquiring real property includes appraisal, appraisal review, waiver valuations, establishing estimates of just compensation, negotiations, relocation assistance, administrative and legal settlements, and court settlements and condemnations. Grantees must ensure all acquisition and related relocation assistance activities are performed in accordance with 49 CFR part 24 and this part. If a grantee does not directly own the real property interests used for a title 23 project, the grantee must have an enforceable subgrant agreement or other agreement with the owner of the ROW that permits the grantee to enforce applicable Federal requirements affecting the real property interests, including real property management requirements under subpart D of this part.
(b)
Adequacy of real property interest.
The real property interests acquired for any project funded under title 23 must be adequate to fulfill the purpose of the project. Except in the case of an Early Acquisition Project, this means
adequate for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the resulting facility, and for the protection of both the facility and the traveling public.
(c)
Establishment and offer of just compensation.
The amount believed to be just compensation shall be approved by a responsible official of the acquiring agency. This shall be done in accordance with 49 CFR 24.102(d).
(d)
Description of acquisition process.
The acquiring agency shall provide persons affected by projects or acquisitions advanced under title 23 of the United States Code with a written description of its real property acquisition process under State law and this part, and of the owner's rights, privileges, and obligations. The description shall be written in clear, non-technical language and, where appropriate, be available in a language other than English in accordance with 49 CFR 24.5, 24.102(b), and 24.203.
§ 710.307
Construction advertising.
(a) The grantee must manage real property acquired for a project until it is required for construction. Except for properties acquired under the early acquisition provisions of 23 CFR 710.501(e), clearance of improvements can be scheduled during the acquisition phase of the project using sale/removal agreements, separate demolition contracts, or be included as a work item in the construction contract. The grantee shall develop ROW availability statements and certifications related to project acquisitions as described in 23 CFR 635.309.
(b) The FHWA-SDOT Stewardship/Oversight Agreement will specify SDOT responsibility for the review and approval of the ROW availability statements and certifications in accordance with applicable law. Generally, for non-National Highway System projects, the SDOT has full responsibility for determining that right-of-way is available for construction. For non-SDOT grantees, FHWA will be responsible for the review and approval.
§ 710.309
Design-build projects.
(a) In the case of a design-build project, ROW must be acquired and cleared in accordance with the Uniform Act and the FHWA-approved ROW manual or RAMP, as provided in § 710.201(c) and (d). The grantee shall submit a ROW certification in accordance with 23 CFR 635.309(p) when requesting FHWA's authorization. The grantee shall ensure that ROW is available prior to the start of physical construction on individual properties.
(b) The decision to advance a ROW segment to the construction stage shall not impair the safety or in any way be coercive in the context of 49 CFR 24.102(h) with respect to unacquired or occupied properties on the same or adjacent segments of project ROW.
(c) The grantee may choose not to allow construction to commence until all property is acquired and relocations have been completed; or, the grantee may permit the construction to be phased or segmented to allow ROW activities to be completed on individual properties or a group of properties, with ROW certifications done in a manner satisfactory to the grantee for each phase or segment.
(d) If the grantee elects to include ROW services within the design-builder's scope of work for the design-build contract, the following provisions must be addressed in the request for proposals document:
(1) The design-builder must submit written certification in its proposal that it will comply with the process and procedures in the FHWA-approved ROW manual or RAMP as provided in § 710.201(c) and (d).
(2) When relocation of displaced persons from their dwellings has not been completed, the grantee or design-builder shall establish a hold off zone around all occupied properties to ensure compliance with ROW procedures prior to starting construction activities in affected areas. The limits of this zone should be established by the grantee prior to the design-builder entering onto the property. There should be no construction-related activity within the hold off zone until the property is vacated. The design-builder must have written notification of vacancy from the grantee prior to entering the hold off zone.
(3) Contractors activities must be limited to those that the grantee determines do not have a material adverse impact on the quality of life of those in occupied properties that have been or will be acquired.
(4) The grantee will provide a ROW project manager who will serve as the first point of contact for all ROW issues.
(e) If the grantee elects to perform all ROW services relating to the design-build contract, the provisions in § 710.307 will apply. The grantee will notify potential offerors of the status of all ROW issues in the request for proposal document.

# Subpart D—Real Property Management

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.401
General.
This subpart describes the grantee's responsibilities to control the use of real property acquired for a project in which Federal funds participated in any phase of the project. The grantee shall specify in its approved ROW manual or RAMP, the procedures for the maintenance, ROW use agreements, and disposal of real property interests acquired with title 23 funds. The grantee shall ensure that subgrantees, including local agencies, follow Federal requirements and approved ROW procedures as provided in § 710.201(c) and (d).
§ 710.403
Management.
(a) As provided in § 710.201(h), FHWA and SDOT may use their Stewardship/Oversight Agreement to enter into a written agreement establishing which approvals the SDOT may make on behalf of FHWA, provided FHWA may not assign to the SDOT the decision to allow any ROW use agreement or any disposal on or within the approved ROW limits of the Interstate, including any change in access control. The assignment agreement provisions in § 710.201(h) and this paragraph do not apply to non-SDOT grantees.
(b) The grantee must ensure that all real property interests within the approved ROW limits or other project limits of a facility that has been funded under title 23 are devoted exclusively to the purposes of that facility and the facility is preserved free of all other public or private alternative uses, unless such non-highway alternative uses are permitted by Federal law (including regulations) or the FHWA. An alternative use, whether temporary under § 710.405 or permanent as provided in § 710.409, must be in the public interest, consistent with the continued operation, maintenance, and safety of the facility, and such use must not impair the highway or interfere with the free and safe flow of traffic (see also 23 CFR 1.23). Park and Ride lots are exempted from the provisions of this part. Park and Ride lots requirements are found 23 U.S.C. 137 and 23 CFR 810.106.
(c) Grantees shall specify procedures in their approved ROW manual or RAMP for determining when a real property interest is excess real property and may be disposed of in accordance with this part. These procedures must provide for coordination among relevant State organizational units that may be interested in the proposed use or disposal of the real property. Grantees also shall specify procedures in their ROW manual or RAMP for determining when a real property interest is excess and when a real property interest may be made available under a ROW use agreement for an alternative use that satisfies the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Disposal actions and ROW use agreements, including leasing actions, are subject to 23 CFR part 771.
(e) Current fair market value must be charged for the use or disposal of all real property interests if those real property interests were obtained with title 23, United States Code, funding except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section. The term fair market value as used for acquisition and disposal purposes is as defined by State statute and/or State court decisions. Exceptions to the requirement for charging fair market value must be submitted to FHWA in writing and may be approved by FHWA in the following situations:
(1) When the grantee shows that an exception is in the overall public interest based on social, environmental, or
economic benefits, or is for a nonproprietary governmental use. The grantee's ROW manual or RAMP must include criteria for evaluating disposals at less than fair market value, and a method for ensuring the public will receive the benefit used to justify the less than fair market value disposal.
(2) Use by public utilities in accordance with 23 CFR part 645.
(3) Use by railroads in accordance with 23 CFR part 646.
(4) Use for bikeways and pedestrian walkways in accordance with 23 CFR part 652.
(5) Uses under 23 U.S.C. 142(f), Public Transportation. Lands and ROWs of a highway constructed using Federal-aid highway funds may be made available without charge to a publicly owned mass transit authority for public transit purposes whenever the public interest will be served, and where this can be accomplished without impairing automotive safety or future highway improvements.
(6) Use for other transportation projects eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code, provided that a concession agreement, as defined in § 710.703, shall not constitute a transportation project exempt from fair market value requirements.
(f) The Federal share of net income from the use or disposal of real property interests obtained with title 23 funds shall be used by the grantee for activities eligible for funding under title 23. Where project income derived from the use or disposal of real property interests is used for subsequent title 23-eligible projects, the funds are not considered Federal financial assistance and use of the income does not cause title 23 requirements to apply.
§ 710.405
ROW use agreements.
(a) A ROW use agreement for the non-highway use of real property interests may be executed with a public entity or private party in accordance with § 710.403 and this section. Any non-highway alternative use of real property interests requires approval by FHWA, including a determination by FHWA that such occupancy, use, or reservation is in the public interest; is consistent with the continued use, operations, maintenance, and safety of the facility; and such use does not impair the highway or interfere with the free and safe flow of traffic as described in § 710.403(b). Except for Interstate Highways, where the SDOT controls the real property interest, the FHWA may assign its determination and approval responsibilities to the SDOT in their Stewardship/Oversight Agreement.
(1) This section applies to highways as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) that received title 23, United States Code, financial assistance in any way.
(2) This section does not apply to the following:
(i) Uses by railroads and public utilities which cross or otherwise occupy Federal-aid highway ROW and that are governed by other sections of this title;
(ii) Relocations of railroads or utilities for which reimbursement is claimed under 23 CFR part 140, subparts E and H, 23 CFR part 645, or 23 CFR part 646, subpart B; and
(iii) Bikeways and pedestrian walkways as covered in 23 CFR part 652.
(b) Subject to the requirements in this subpart, ROW use agreements for a time-limited occupancy or use of real property interests may be approved if the grantee has acquired sufficient legal right, title, and interest in the ROW of a federally assisted highway to permit the non-highway use. A ROW use agreement must contain provisions that address the following items:
(1) Ensure the safety and integrity of the federally assisted facility;
(2) Define the term of the agreement;
(3) Identify the design and location of the non-highway use;
(4) Establish terms for revocation of the ROW use agreement and removal of improvements at no cost to the FHWA;
(5) Provide for adequate insurance to hold the grantee and the FHWA harmless;
(6) Require compliance with nondiscrimination requirements;
(7) Require grantee and FHWA approval, if not assigned to SDOT, and SDOT approval if the agreement affects a Federal-aid highway and the SDOT is not the grantee, for any significant revision in the design, construction, or operation of the non-highway use; and
(8) Grant access to the non-highway use by the grantee and FHWA, and the SDOT if the agreement affects a Federal-aid highway and the SDOT is not the grantee, for inspection, maintenance, and for activities needed for reconstruction of the highway facility.
(9) Additional terms and conditions appropriate for inclusion in ROW use agreements are described in FHWA guidance at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/right-of-way/corridor_management/airspace_guidelines.cfm.
The terms and conditions listed in the guidance are not mandatory requirements.
(c) Where a proposed use requires changes in the existing highway, such changes shall be provided without cost to Federal funds unless otherwise specifically agreed to by the grantee and FHWA.
(d) Proposed uses of real property interests shall conform to the current design standards and safety criteria of FHWA for the functional classification of the highway facility in which the property is located.
(e) An individual, company, organization, or public agency desiring to use real property interests shall submit a written request to the grantee, together with an application supporting the proposal. If FHWA is the approving authority, the grantee shall forward the request, application, and the SDOT's recommendation if the proposal affects a Federal-aid highway, and the proposed ROW use agreement, together with its recommendation and any necessary supplemental information, to FHWA. The submission shall affirmatively provide for adherence to all requirements contained in this subpart and must include the following information:
(1) Identification of the party responsible for developing and operating the proposed use;
(2) A general statement of the proposed use;
(3) A description of why the proposed use would be in the public interest;
(4) Information demonstrating the proposed use would not impair the highway or interfere with the free and safe flow of traffic;
(5) The proposed design for the use of the space, including any facilities to be constructed;
(6) Maps, plans, or sketches to adequately demonstrate the relationship of the proposed project to the highway facility;
(7) Provision for vertical and horizontal access for maintenance purposes;
(8) A description of other general provisions such as the term of use, insurance requirements, design limitations, safety mandates, accessibility, and maintenance as outlined further in this section; and
(9) An adequately detailed three-dimensional presentation of the space to be used and the facility to be constructed if required by FHWA or the grantor. Maps and plans may not be required if the available real property interest is to be used for leisure activities (such as walking or biking), beautification, parking of motor vehicles, public mass transit facilities, and similar uses. In such cases, an acceptable metes and bounds description of the surface area, and appropriate plans or cross sections clearly defining the vertical use limits, may be furnished in lieu of a three-dimensional description, at the grantee's discretion.
§ 710.407
[Reserved]
§ 710.409
Disposal of excess real property.
(a) Excess real property outside or within the approved right-of-way limits or other project limits may be sold or conveyed to a public entity or to a private party in accordance with § 710.403(a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and this section. Approval by FHWA is required for disposal of excess real property unless otherwise provided in this section or in the FHWA-SDOT Stewardship/Oversight Agreement.
(b) Federal, State, and local agencies shall be afforded the opportunity to acquire excess real property considered for disposal when such real property interests have potential use for parks, conservation, recreation, or related purposes, and when such a transfer is allowed by State law. When this potential exists, the grantee shall notify the appropriate agencies of its intentions
to dispose of the real property interests determined to be excess.
(c) The grantee may decide to retain excess real property to restore, preserve, or improve the scenic beauty and environmental quality adjacent to the transportation facility.
(d) Where the transfer of excess real property to other agencies at less than fair market value for continued public use is clearly justified as in the public interest and approved by FHWA under § 710.403(e), the deed shall provide for reversion of the property for failure to continue public ownership and use. Where property is sold at fair market value, no reversion clause is required.
(e) No FHWA approval is required for disposal of excess real property located outside of the approved ROW limits or other project limits if Federal funds did not participate in the acquisition cost of the real property.
(f) Highway facilities in which Federal funds participated in either the ROW or construction may be relinquished to another governmental agency for continued highway use under the provisions of 23 CFR part 620, subpart B.
(g) A request for approval of a disposal must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 710.403(a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and this section. An individual, company, organization, or public agency requesting a grantee to approve of a disposal of excess real property within the approved ROW limits or other project limits, or to approve of a disposal of excess real property outside the ROW limits that was acquired with title 23 of the United States Code funding, shall submit a written request to the grantee, together with an application supporting the proposal. If the FHWA is the approving authority, the grantee shall forward the request, the SDOT recommendation if the proposal affects a Federal-aid highway, the application, and proposed terms and conditions, together with its recommendation and any necessary supplemental information, to FHWA. The submission shall affirmatively provide for adherence to requirements contained in this section and must include the information specified in § 710.405(e)(1) through (9).

# Subpart E—Property Acquisition Alternatives

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.501
Early acquisition.
(a)
General.
A State agency may initiate acquisition of real property interests for a proposed transportation project at any time it has the legal authority to do so. The State agency may undertake Early Acquisition Projects before the completion of the environmental review process for the proposed transportation project for corridor preservation, access management, or other purposes. Subject to the requirements in this section, State agencies may fund Early Acquisition Project costs entirely with State funds with no title 23 participation; use State funds initially but seek title 23 credit or reimbursement when the acquired property is incorporated into a transportation project eligible for Federal surface transportation program funds; or use the normal Federal-aid project agreement and reimbursement process to fund an Early Acquisition Project pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section. The early acquisition of a real property interest under this section shall be carried out in compliance with all requirements applicable to the acquisition of real property interests for federally assisted transportation projects.
(b)
State-funded early acquisition without Federal credit or reimbursement.
A State agency may carry out early acquisition entirely at its expense and later incorporate the acquired real property into a transportation project or program for which the State agency receives Federal financial assistance or other Federal approval under title 23 for other transportation project activities. In order to maintain eligibility for future Federal assistance on the project, early acquisition activities funded entirely without Federal participation must comply with the requirements of § 710.501(c)(1) through (5).
(c)
State-funded early acquisition eligible for future credit.
Subject to § 710.203(b) (direct eligible costs), § 710.505(b), and § 710.507 (State and local contributions), Early Acquisition
Project costs incurred by a State agency at its own expense prior to completion of the environmental review process for a proposed transportation project are eligible for use as a credit toward the non-Federal share of the total project costs if the project receives surface transportation program funds, and if the following conditions are met:
(1) The property was lawfully obtained by the State agency;
(2) The property was not land described in 23 U.S.C. 138;
(3) The property was acquired, and any relocations were carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Act and regulations in 49 CFR part 24;
(4) The State agency complied with the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4);
(5) The State agency determined, and FHWA concurred, the early acquisition did not influence the environmental review process for the proposed transportation project, including:
(i) The decision on need to construct the proposed transportation project;
(ii) The consideration of any alternatives for the proposed transportation project required by applicable law; and
(iii) The selection of the design or location for the proposed transportation project; and
(6) The property will be incorporated into the project for which surface transportation program funds are received and to which the credit will be applied.
(d)
State-funded early acquisition eligible for future reimbursement.
Early Acquisition Project costs incurred by a State agency prior to completion of the environmental review process for the transportation project are eligible for reimbursement from title 23 funds apportioned to the State once the real property interests are incorporated into a project eligible for surface transportation program funds if the State agency demonstrates, and FHWA concurs, that the terms and conditions specified in the requirements of § 710.501(c)(1) through (5), and the requirements of § 710.203(b) (direct eligible costs) have been met. The State agency must demonstrate that it has met the following requirements, as set forth in 23 U.S.C. 108(c)(3):
(1) Any land acquired, and relocation assistance provided, complied with the Uniform Act;
(2) The requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 have been complied with;
(3) The State has a mandatory comprehensive and coordinated land use, environment, and transportation planning process under State law and the acquisition is certified by the Governor as consistent with the State plans before the acquisition;
(4) The acquisition is determined in advance by the Governor to be consistent with the State transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 135;
(5) The alternative for which the real property interest is acquired is selected by the State pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary which provide for the consideration of the environmental impacts of various alternatives;
(6) Before the time that the cost incurred by a State is approved for Federal participation, environmental compliance pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act has been completed for the project for which the real property interest was acquired by the State, and the acquisition has been approved by the Secretary under this Act, and in compliance with section 303 of title 49, section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, and all other applicable environmental laws that shall be identified by the Secretary in regulations; and
(7) Before the time that the cost incurred by a State is approved for Federal participation, the Secretary has determined that the property acquired in advance of Federal approval or authorization did not influence the environmental assessment of the project, the decision relative to the need to construct the project, or the selection of the project design or location.
(e)
Federally funded early acquisition.
The FHWA may authorize the use of funds apportioned to a State under title 23 for an Early Acquisition Project if the State agency certifies, and FHWA concurs, that all of the following conditions have been met:
(1) The State has authority to acquire the real property interest under State law; and
(2) The acquisition of the real property interest—
(i) Is for a transportation project or program eligible for funding under title 23 that will not require FHWA approval under 23 CFR 774.3;
(ii) Will not cause any significant adverse environmental impacts either as a result of the Early Acquisition Project or from cumulative effects of multiple Early Acquisition Projects carried out under this section in connection with a proposed transportation project;
(iii) Will not limit the choice of reasonable alternatives for a proposed transportation project or otherwise influence the decision of FHWA on any approval required for a proposed transportation project;
(iv) Will not prevent the lead agency from making an impartial decision as to whether to accept an alternative that is being considered in the environmental review process for a proposed transportation project;
(v) Is consistent with the State transportation planning process under 23 U.S.C. 135;
(vi) Complies with other applicable Federal laws (including regulations);
(vii) Will be acquired through negotiation, without the threat of, or use of, condemnation; and
(viii) Will not result in a reduction or elimination of benefits or assistance to a displaced person required by the Uniform Act and title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
).
(3) The Early Acquisition Project is included as a project in an applicable transportation improvement program under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135 and 49 U.S.C. 5303 and 5304.
(4) The environmental review process for the Early Acquisition Project is complete and FHWA has approved the Early Acquisition Project. Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 108(d)(4)(B), the Early Acquisition Project is deemed to have independent utility for purposes of the environmental review process under NEPA. When the Early Acquisition Project may result in a change to the use or character of the real property interest prior to the completion of the environmental review process for the proposed transportation project, the NEPA evaluation for the Early Acquisition Project must consider whether the change has the potential to cause a significant environmental impact as defined in 40 CFR 1508.27, including a significant adverse impact within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. The Early Acquisition Project must comply with all applicable environmental laws.
(f)
Prohibited activities.
Except as provided in this paragraph, real property interests acquired under paragraph (e) of this section and pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 108(d) cannot be developed in anticipation of a transportation project until all required environmental reviews for the transportation project have been completed. For the purpose of this paragraph, “development in anticipation of a transportation project” means any activity related to demolition, site preparation, or construction that is not necessary to protect public health or safety. With prior FHWA approval, a State agency may carry out limited activities necessary for securing real property interests acquired as part of an Early Acquisition Project, such as limited clearing and demolition activity, if the activities are necessary to protect the public health or safety and are considered during the environmental review of the Early Acquisition Project.
(g)
Reimbursement.
If Federal-aid reimbursement is made for real property interests acquired early under this section and the real property interests are not subsequently incorporated into a project eligible for surface transportation funds within the time allowed by 23 U.S.C. 108 (a)(2), FHWA must offset the amount reimbursed against funds apportioned to the State.
(h)
Relocation assistance eligibility.
In the case of an Early Acquisition Project, a person is considered to be displaced when required to move from the real property as a direct result of a binding written agreement for the purchase of the real property interest(s) between the acquiring agency and the property owner. Options to purchase and similar agreements used for Early
Acquisition Projects that give the acquiring agency a right to prevent new development or to decide in the future whether to acquire the real property interest(s), but do not create an immediate commitment by the acquiring agency to acquire and do not require an owner or tenant to relocate, do not create relocation eligibility until the acquiring agency legally commits itself to acquiring the real property interest(s).
§ 710.503
Protective buying and hardship acquisition.
(a)
General conditions.
Prior to final environmental approval of a transportation project, the grantee may request FHWA agreement to provide reimbursement for advance acquisition of a particular parcel or a limited number of parcels, to prevent imminent development and increased costs on the preferred location (Protective Buying), or to alleviate hardship to a property owner or owners on the preferred location (Hardship Acquisition), provided the following conditions are met:
(1) The transportation project is included in the currently approved STIP;
(2) The grantee has complied with applicable public involvement requirements in 23 CFR parts 450 and 771;
(3) A determination has been completed for any property interest subject to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 138; and
(4) Procedures of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation are completed for properties subject to (54 U.S.C. 306108), (historic properties).
(b)
Protective buying.
The grantee must clearly demonstrate that development of the property is imminent and such development would limit future transportation choices. A significant increase in cost may be considered as an element justifying a protective purchase.
(c)
Hardship acquisitions.
The grantee must accept and concur in an owner's request for a hardship acquisition based on a property owner's written submission that—
(1) Supports the hardship acquisition by providing justification, on the basis of health, safety or financial reasons, that remaining in the property poses an undue hardship compared to other property owners; and
(2) Documents an inability to sell the property because of the impending project, at fair market value, within a time period that is typical for properties not impacted by the impending project.
(d)
Environmental decisions.
Acquisition of property under this section is subject to environmental review under part 771 of this chapter. Acquisitions under this section shall not influence the environmental review of a transportation project which would use the property, including decisions about the need to construct the transportation project or the selection of an alternative.
§ 710.505
Real property donations.
(a)
Donations of property being acquired.
A non-governmental owner whose real property is required for a title 23 project may donate the property. Donations may be made at any time during the development of a project subject to applicable State laws. Prior to accepting the property, the owner must be informed in writing by the acquiring agency of his/her right to receive just compensation for the property, the right to an appraisal or waiver valuation of the real property, and of all other applicable financial and non-financial assistance provided under 49 CFR part 24 and applicable State law. All donations of property received prior to the approval of the NEPA document for the project must meet the requirements specified in 23 U.S.C. 323(d).
(b)
Credit for donations.
Donations of real property may be credited to the State's matching share of the project in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 323. As required by 23 U.S.C. 323(b)(2), credit to the State's matching share for donated property shall be based on fair market value established on the earlier of the following: Either the date on which the donation becomes effective, or the date on which equitable title to the property vests in the State. The fair market value shall not include increases or decreases in value caused by the project. The grantee shall ensure sufficient documentation is developed to indicate compliance with paragraph (a) of this section and with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 323, and to support the
amount of credit applied. The total credit cannot exceed the State's pro-rata share under the project agreement to which it is applied.
(c)
Donations and conveyances in exchange for construction features or services.
A property owner may donate property in exchange for construction features or services. The value of the donation is limited to the fair market value of property donated less the cost of the construction features or services. If the value of the donated property exceeds the cost of the construction features or services, the difference may be eligible for a credit to the State's share of project costs.
§ 710.507
State and local contributions.
(a)
Credit for State and local government contributions.
If the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 323 are met, real property owned by State and local governments that is incorporated within a project receiving financial assistance from the Highway Trust Fund can be used as a credit toward the grantee or subgrantee's matching share of total project cost. A credit cannot exceed the grantee or subgrantee's matching share required by the project agreement. The grantee must ensure there is documentation supporting all credits, including the following:
(1) A certification that the State or local government acquisition satisfied the conditions in 23 CFR 710.501(c)(1) through (6); and
(2) Justification of the value of credit applied. Acquisition costs incurred by the State or local government to acquire title can be used as justification for the value of the real property.
(b)
Exemptions.
Credits are not available for real property acquired with any form of Federal financial assistance except as provided in 23 U.S.C. 120(j), or for real property already incorporated into existing ROW and used for transportation purposes.
(c)
Contributions without credit.
Property may be presented for project use with the understanding that no credit for its use is sought. In such case, the grantee shall assure that the acquisition satisfied the conditions in 23 CFR 710.501(c)(1) through (6).
§ 710.509
Functional replacement of real property in public ownership.
(a)
General.
When publicly owned real property, including land and/or facilities, is to be acquired for a project receiving grant funds under title 23, in lieu of paying the fair market value for the real property, the acquiring agency may provide compensation by functionally replacing the publicly owned real property with another facility that will provide equivalent utility.
(b)
Federal participation.
Federal-aid funds may participate in functional replacement costs only if the following conditions are met:
(1) Functional replacement is permitted under State law and the acquiring agency elects to provide it;
(2) The property in question is in public ownership and use;
(3) The replacement facility will be in public ownership and will continue the public use function of the acquired facility;
(4) The acquiring agency has informed, in writing, the public entity owning the property of its right to an estimate of just compensation based on an appraisal of fair market value and of the option to choose either just compensation or functional replacement;
(5) The FHWA concurs in the acquiring agency determination that functional replacement is in the public interest; and
(6) The real property is not owned by a utility or railroad.
(c)
Federal land transfers.
Use of this section for functional replacement of real property in Federal ownership shall be in accordance with Federal land transfer provisions in subpart F of this part.
(d)
Limits upon participation.
Federal-aid participation in the costs of functional replacement is limited to costs that are actually incurred in the replacement of the acquired land and/or facility and are—
(1) Costs for facilities that do not represent increases in capacity or betterments, except for those necessary to replace utilities, to meet legal, regulatory, or similar requirements, or to meet reasonable prevailing standards; and
(2) Costs for land to provide a site for the replacement facility.
(e)
Procedures.
When a grantee determines that payments providing for functional replacement of public facilities are allowable under State law, the grantee will incorporate within its approved ROW manual, or approved RAMP, full procedures covering review and oversight that will be applied to such cases.
§ 710.511
Transportation Alternatives.
(a)
General.
23 U.S.C. 133(h) sets aside an amount from each State's Surface Transportation Block Grant apportionment for Transportation Alternatives (TA). The TA projects that involve the acquisition, management, and disposition of real property, and the relocation of families, individuals, and businesses, are governed by the general requirements of the Federal-aid program found in titles 23 and 49 of the CFR, except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) Acquisition and relocation activities for TA projects are subject to the Uniform Act.
(2) When a person or agency acquires real property for a project receiving title 23 grant funds on behalf of an acquiring agency with eminent domain authority, the requirements of the Uniform Act apply as if the acquiring agency had acquired the property itself.
(3) When, subsequent to Federal approval of property acquisition, a person or agency acquires real property for a project receiving title 23 grant funds, and there will be no use or recourse to the power of eminent domain, the limited requirements of 49 CFR 24.101(b)(2) apply.
(c)
Property management and disposal of property acquired for TA projects.
Subpart D of this part applies to the management and disposal of real property interests acquired with TA funds, including alternate uses authorized under ROW use agreements. A TA project involving acquisition of any real property interest must have a real property agreement between FHWA and the grantee that identifies the expected useful life of the TA project and establishes a pro rata formula for repayment of TAP funding by the grantee if—
(1) The acquired real property interest is used in whole or in part for purposes other than the TA project purposes for which it was acquired; or
(2) The actual TA project life is less than the expected useful life specified in the real property agreement.

# Subpart F—Federal Assistance Programs

# Source:
81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.601
Federal land transfers.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to any project constructed on a Federal-aid highway or under Chapter 2 of title 23, of the United States Code. When the FHWA determines that a strong Federal transportation interest exists, these provisions may also be applied to highway projects that are eligible for Federal funding under Chapters 1 and 2 of title 23, of the United States Code, and to highway-related transfers that are requested by a State in conjunction with a military base closure under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-510, 104 Stat. 1808, as amended).
(b) Under certain conditions, real property interests owned by the United States may be transferred to a non-Federal owner for use for highway purposes. Sections 107(d) and 317 of title 23, United States Code, establish the circumstances under which such transfers may occur, and the parties eligible to receive such transfers (SDOTs and their nominees).
(c) An eligible party may file an application with FHWA, or can make application directly to the Federal land management agency if the Federal land management agency has its own authority for granting interests in land.
(d) Applications under this section shall include the following information:
(1) The purpose for which the lands are to be used;
(2) The estate or interest in the land required for the project;
(3) The Federal project number or other appropriate references;
(4) The name of the Federal agency exercising jurisdiction over the land
and identity of the installation or activity in possession of the land;
(5) A map showing the survey of the lands to be acquired;
(6) A legal description of the lands desired; and
(7) A statement of compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
) and any other applicable Federal environmental laws, including the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 306108), and 23 U.S.C. 138.
(e) If the FHWA concurs in the need for the transfer, the Federal land management agency will be notified and a right-of-entry requested. For projects not on the Interstate System, the Federal land management agency shall have a period of 4 months in which to designate conditions necessary for the adequate protection and utilization of the reserve or to certify that the proposed appropriation is contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the purposes for which such land or materials have been reserved. The FHWA may extend the reply period at the timely request of the Federal land management agency for good cause.
(f) The FHWA may participate in the payment of fair market value or the functional replacement of impacted facilities under 710.509 and the reimbursement of the ordinary and reasonable direct costs of the Federal land management agency for the transfer when reimbursement is required by the Federal land management agency's governing laws as a condition of the transfer.
(g) Deeds for conveyance of real property interests owned by the United States shall be prepared by the eligible party and must be certified as being legally sufficient by an attorney licensed within the State where the real property is located. Such deeds shall contain the clauses required by FHWA and 49 CFR 21.7(a)(2). After the eligible party prepares the deed, it will submit the proposed deed with the certification to FHWA for review and execution.
(h) Following execution by FHWA, the eligible party shall record the deed in the appropriate land record office and so advise FHWA and the affected Federal land management agency.
(i) When the need for the interest acquired under this subpart no longer exists, the party that received the real property must restore the land to the condition which existed prior to the transfer, or to a condition that is acceptable to the Federal land management agency to which such property would revert, and must give notice to FHWA and to the affected Federal land management agency that such interest will immediately revert to the control of the Federal land management agency from which it was appropriated or to its assigns. Where authorized by Federal law, the Federal land management agency and such party may enter into a separate agreement to release the reversion clause and make alternative arrangements for the sale, restoration, or other disposition of the lands no longer needed.
§ 710.603
Direct Federal acquisition.
(a) The provisions of this paragraph may be applied to any real property that is not owned by the United States and is needed in connection with a project for the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of any section of the Interstate System or for a Defense Access Road project under 23 U.S.C. 210, if the SDOT is unable to acquire the required ROW or is unable to obtain possession with sufficient promptness. If the landowner tenders a right-of-entry or other right of possession document required by State law any time before FHWA makes a determination that the SDOT is unable to acquire the ROW with sufficient promptness, the SDOT is legally obligated to accept such tender and FHWA may not proceed with Federal acquisition. To enable FHWA to make the necessary findings and to proceed with the acquisition of the ROW, the SDOT's written application for Federal acquisition must include the following:
(1) Justification for the Federal acquisition of the lands or interests in lands;
(2) The date FHWA authorized the SDOT to commence ROW acquisition, the date of the project agreement, and a statement that the agreement contains the provisions required by 23 U.S.C. 111;
(3) The necessity for acquisition of the particular lands under request;
(4) A statement of the specific interests in lands to be acquired, including the proposed treatment of control of access;
(5) The SDOT's intentions with respect to the acquisition, subordination, or exclusion of outstanding interests, such as minerals and utility easements, in connection with the proposed acquisition;
(6) A statement on compliance with the provisions of parts 771 and 774 of this chapter, as applicable;
(7) Adequate legal descriptions, plats, appraisals, and title data;
(8) An outline of the negotiations that have been conducted with landowners;
(9) An agreement that the SDOT will pay its pro rata share of costs incurred in the acquisition of, or the attempt to acquire, ROW; and
(10) A statement that assures compliance with the applicable provisions of the Uniform Act.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, direct Federal acquisitions from non-Federal owners for projects administered by the FHWA Office of Federal Lands Highway may be carried out in accordance with applicable Federal condemnation laws. The FHWA will proceed with such a direct Federal acquisition only when the public agency responsible for the road is unable to obtain the ROW necessary for the project. The public agency must make a written request to FHWA for the acquisition and, if the public agency is a Federal agency, the request shall include a commitment that any real property obtained will be under that agency's sole jurisdiction and control and FHWA will have no jurisdiction or control over the real property as a result of the acquisition. The FHWA may require the applicant to provide any information FHWA needs to make the required determinations or to carry out the acquisition.
(c) If the applicant for direct Federal acquisition obtains title to a parcel prior to the filing of the Declaration of Taking, it shall notify FHWA and immediately furnish the appropriate U.S. Attorney with a disclaimer together with a request that the action against the landowner be dismissed (ex parte) from the proceeding and the estimated just compensation deposited into the registry of the court for the affected parcel be withdrawn after the appropriate motions are approved by the court.
(d) When the United States obtains a court order granting possession of the real property, FHWA shall authorize the applicant for direct Federal acquisition to immediately take over supervision of the property. The authorization shall include, but need not be limited to, the following:
(1) The right to take possession of unoccupied properties;
(2) The right to give 90 days notice to owners to vacate occupied properties and the right to take possession of such properties when vacated;
(3) The right to permit continued occupancy of a property until it is required for construction and, in those instances where such occupancy is to be for a substantial period of time, the right to enter into rental agreements, as appropriate, to protect the public interest;
(4) The right to request assistance from the U.S. Attorney in obtaining physical possession where an owner declines to comply with the court order of possession;
(5) The right to clear improvements and other obstructions;
(6) Instructions that the U.S. Attorney be notified prior to actual clearing, so as to afford him an opportunity to view the lands and improvements, to obtain appropriate photographs, and to secure appraisals in connection with the preparation of the case for trial;
(7) The requirement for appropriate credits to the United States for any net salvage or net rentals obtained by the applicant for direct Federal acquisition, as in the case of ROW acquired by an SDOT for Federal-aid projects; and
(8) Instructions that the authority granted to the applicant for direct Federal acquisition is not intended to preclude the U.S. Attorney from taking action, before the applicant has made arrangements for removal, to reach a settlement with the former owner which would include provision for removal.
(e) If the Federal Government initiates condemnation proceedings against the owner of real property in a Federal court and the final judgment is that FHWA cannot acquire the real property by condemnation, or the proceeding is abandoned, the court is required by law to award such a sum to the owner of the real property that in the opinion of the court provides reimbursement for the owner's reasonable costs, disbursements, and expenses, including reasonable attorney, appraisal, and engineering fees, actually incurred because of the condemnation proceedings.
(f) As soon as practicable after the date of payment of the purchase price or the date of deposit in court of funds to satisfy the award of the compensation in a Federal condemnation, FHWA shall reimburse the owner to the extent deemed fair and reasonable, the following costs:
(1) Recording fees, transfer taxes, and similar expenses incidental to conveying such real property to the United States;
(2) Penalty costs for prepayment of any preexisting recorded mortgage entered into in good faith encumbering such real property; and
(3) The pro rata portion of real property taxes paid which are allocable to a period subsequent to the date of vesting title in the United States or the effective date of possession, whichever is the earlier.
(g) The lands or interests in lands, acquired under this section, will be conveyed to the State or the appropriate political subdivision thereof, upon agreement by the SDOT, or said subdivision to:
(1) Maintain control of access where applicable;
(2) Accept title thereto;
(3) Maintain the project constructed thereon;
(4) Abide by any conditions which may set forth in the deed; and
(5) Notify the FHWA at the appropriate time that all the conditions have been performed.
(h) The deed from the United States to the State, or to the appropriate political subdivision thereof, or in the case of a Federal applicant for a direct Federal acquisition any document designating jurisdiction, shall include the conditions required by 49 CFR part 21 and shall not include any grant of jurisdiction to FHWA. The deed shall be recorded by the grantee in the appropriate land record office, and the FHWA shall be advised of the recording date.
[81 FR 57729, Aug. 23, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 21710, May 10, 2018]

# Subpart G—Concession Agreements

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 156 and 315; 23 CFR 1.32; 49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
73 FR 77503, Dec. 19, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 710.701
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe the standards that ensure fair market value is received by a highway agency under concession agreements involving federally funded highways.
§ 710.703
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a)
Best value
means the proposal offering the most overall public benefits as determined through an evaluation of the amount of the concession payment and other appropriate considerations. Such other appropriate considerations may include, but are not limited to, qualifications and experience of the concessionaire, expected quality of services to be provided, the history or track record of the concessionaire in providing the services, timelines for the delivery of services, performance standards, complexity of the services to be rendered, and revenue sharing. Such appropriate considerations may also include, but are not limited to, policy considerations that are important, but not quantifiable, such as retaining the ability to amend the concession agreement if conditions change, having a desired level of oversight over the facility, ensuring a certain level of maintenance and operations for the facility, considerations relative to the structure and amount of the toll rates, economic development impacts and considerations, or social and environmental benefits and impacts.
(b)
Concession agreement
means an agreement between a highway agency and a concessionaire under which the concessionaire is given the right to operate and collect revenues or fees for the use of a federally funded highway in return for compensation to be paid to the highway agency. A concession agreement may include, but not be limited to, obligations concerning the development, design, construction, maintenance, operation, level of service, and/or capital improvements to a facility over the term of the agreement. Concession agreement shall not include agreements between government entities, even when compensation is paid, where the primary purpose of the transaction is not commercial in nature but for the purpose of determining governmental ownership, control, jurisdiction, or responsibilities with respect to the operation of a federally funded highway. The highway agency's determination as to whether an agreement between government entities constitutes a concession agreement shall be controlling.
(c)
Concessionaire
means any private or public entity that enters into a concession agreement with a highway agency.
(d)
Fair market value
means the price at which a highway agency and concessionaire are ready and willing to enter into a concession agreement for a federally funded highway on, or as if in, the open market for a reasonable period of time and in an arm's length transaction to any willing, knowledgeable, and able buyer. For purposes of this subpart, a concession agreement based on best value shall be deemed fair market value.
(e)
Federally funded highway
means any highway (including highways, bridges, and tunnels) acquired with Federal assistance made available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account). A highway shall be deemed to be acquired with Federal assistance if Federal assistance participated in either the purchase of any real property, or in any capital expenditures in any fixtures located on real property, within the right-of-way, including the highway and any structures located upon the property.
(f)
Highway agency
in this subpart means any SDOT or other public authority with jurisdiction over a federally funded highway.
[73 FR 77503, Dec. 19, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 57741, Aug. 23, 2016]
§ 710.705
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all concession agreements involving federally funded highways that are executed after January 18, 2009.
§ 710.707
Fair market value.
A highway agency shall receive fair market value for any concession agreement involving a federally funded highway.
§ 710.709
Determination of fair market value.
(a) Fair market value may be determined either on a best value basis, highest net present value of the payments to be received over the life of the agreement, or highest bid received, as may be specified by the highway agency in the request for proposals or other relevant solicitation. If best value is used, the highway agency should identify, in the relevant solicitation, the criteria to be used as well as the weight afforded to the criteria.
(b) In order to be considered fair market value, the terms of the concession agreement must be both legally binding and enforceable.
(c) Any concession agreement awarded pursuant to a competitive process with more than one bidder shall be deemed to be fair market value. Any concession agreement awarded pursuant to a competitive process with only one bidder shall be presumed to be fair market value. Such presumption may be overcome only if the highway agency determines the proposal to not be fair market value based on the highway agency's estimates. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to require a highway agency to accept any proposal, even if the proposal is deemed fair market value. For purposes of this subsection, a competitive process shall afford all interested proposers an equal opportunity to submit a proposal for the concession agreement and shall comply with applicable State and local law.
(d) If a concession agreement is not awarded pursuant to a competitive process, the highway agency must receive fair market value, as determined by the highway agency in accordance with State law, so long as an independent third party assessment is conducted and made publicly available.
(e) Nothing in this subpart is intended to waive the requirements of part 172, part 635, and part 636 whenever any Federal-aid (including TIFIA assistance) is to be used for a project under the concession agreement.
Pt. 750

# PART 750—HIGHWAY BEAUTIFICATION

# Subpart A—National Standards for Regulation by States of Outdoor Advertising Adjacent to the Interstate System Under the 1958 Bonus Program
Sec.
750.101
Purpose.
750.102
Definitions.
750.103
Measurements of distance.
750.104
Signs that may not be permitted in protected areas.
750.105
Signs that may be permitted in protected areas.
750.106
Class 3 and 4 signs within informational sites.
750.107
Class 3 and 4 signs outside informational sites.
750.108
General provisions.
750.109
Exclusions.
750.110
State regulations.

# Subpart B—National Standards for Directional and Official Signs
750.151
Purpose.
750.152
Application.
750.153
Definitions.
750.154
Standards for directional signs.
750.155
State standards.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Outdoor Advertising (Acquisition of Rights of Sign and Sign Site Owners)
750.301
Purpose.
750.302
Policy.
750.303
Definitions.
750.304
State policies and procedures.
750.305
Federal participation.
750.306
Documentation for Federal participation.
750.307
FHWA project approval.
750.308
Reports.

# Subpart E—Signs Exempt From Removal in Defined Areas
750.501
Purpose.
750.502
Applicability.
750.503
Exemptions.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Outdoor Advertising Control
750.701
Purpose.
750.702
Applicability.
750.703
Definitions.
750.704
Statutory requirements.
750.705
Effective control.
750.706
Sign control in zoned and unzoned commercial and industrial areas.
750.707
Nonconforming signs.
750.708
Acceptance of state zoning.
750.709
On-property or on-premise advertising.
750.710
Landmark signs.
750.711
Structures which have never displayed advertising material.
750.712
Reclassification of signs.
750.713
Bonus provisions.

# Source:
38 FR 16044, June 20, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—National Standards for Regulation by States of Outdoor Advertising Adjacent to the Interstate System Under the 1958 Bonus Program

# Authority:
Sec. 12, Pub. L. 85-381, 72 Stat. 95, as amended; 23 U.S.C. 131; delegation of authority in 49 CFR 1.48(b).
§ 750.101
Purpose.
(a) In section 12 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958, Pub. L. 85-381, 72 Stat. 95, hereinafter called the
act,
the Congress declared that:
(1) To promote the safety, convenience, and enjoyment of public travel and the free flow of interstate commerce and to protect the public investment in the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways, hereinafter called the
Interstate System,
it is in the public interest to encourage and assist the States to control the use of and to improve areas adjacent to such system by controlling the erection and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs, displays, and devices adjacent to that system.
(2) It is a national policy that the erection and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs, displays, or devices
within 660 feet of the edge of the right-of-way and visible from the main-traveled way of all portions of the Interstate System constructed upon any part of right-of-way, the entire width of which is acquired subsequent to July 1, 1956, should be regulated, consistent with national standards to be prepared and promulgated by the Secretary of Transportation.
(b) The standards in this part are hereby promulgated as provided in the act.
[38 FR 16044, June 20, 1973, as amended at 39 FR 28629, Aug. 9, 1974]
§ 750.102
Definitions.
The following terms when used in the standards in this part have the following meanings:
(a)
Acquired for right-of-way
means acquired for right-of-way for any public road by the Federal Government, a State, or a county, city, or other political subdivision of a State, by donation, dedication, purchase, condemnation, use, or otherwise. The date of acquisition shall be the date upon which title (whether fee title or a lesser interest) vested in the public for right-of-way purposes under applicable Federal or State law.
(b)
Centerline of the highway
means a line equidistant from the edges of the median separating the main-traveled ways of a divided Interstate Highway, or the centerline of the main-traveled way of a nondivided Interstate Highway.
(c)
Controlled portion of the Interstate System
means any portion which:
(1) Is constructed upon any part of right-of-way, the entire width of which is acquired for right-of-way subsequent to July 1, 1956 (a portion shall be deemed so constructed if, within such portion, no line normal or perpendicular to the centerline of the highway and extending to both edges of the right-of-way will intersect any right-of-way acquired for right-of-way on or before July 1, 1956);
(2) Lies within a State, the highway department of which has entered into an agreement with the Secretary of Transportation as provided in the act; and
(3) Is not excluded under the terms of the act which provide that agreements entered into between the Secretary of Transportation and the State highway department shall not apply to those segments of the Interstate System which traverse commercial or industrial zones within the boundaries of incorporated municipalities, as such boundaries existed on September 21, 1959, wherein the use of real property adjacent to the Interstate System is subject to municipal regulation or control, or which traverse other areas where the land use as of September 21, 1959, was clearly established by State law as industrial or commercial.
(d)
Entrance roadway
means any public road or turning roadway, including acceleration lanes, by which traffic may enter the main-traveled way of an Interstate Highway from the general road system within a State, irrespective of whether traffic may also leave the main-traveled way by such road or turning roadway.
(e)
Erect
means to construct, build, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, create, paint, draw, or in any other way bring into being or establish.
(f)
Exit roadway
means any public road or turning roadway including deceleration lanes, by which traffic may leave the main-traveled way of an Interstate Highway to reach the general road system within a State, irrespective of whether traffic may also enter the main-traveled way by such road or turning roadway.
(g)
Informational site
means an area or site established and maintained within or adjacent to the right-of-way of a highway on the Interstate System by or under the supervision or control of a State highway department, wherein panels for the display of advertising and informational signs may be erected and maintained.
(h)
Legible
means capable of being read without visual aid by a person of normal visual acuity.
(i)
Maintain
means to allow to exist.
(j)
Main-traveled way
means the traveled way of an Interstate Highway on which through traffic is carried. In the case of a divided highway, the traveled way of each of the separated roadways for traffic in opposite directions is a main-traveled way. It does not include such facilities as frontage roads, turning roadways, or parking areas.
(k)
Protected areas
means all areas inside the boundaries of a State which are adjacent to and within 660 feet of the edge of the right-of-way of all controlled portions of the Interstate System within that State. Where a controlled portion of the Interstate System terminates at a State boundary which is not perpendicular or normal to the centerline of the highway, protected areas also means all areas inside the boundary of such State which are within 660 feet of the edge of the right-of-way of the Interstate Highway in the adjoining State.
(l)
Scenic area
means any public park or area of particular scenic beauty or historical significance designated by or pursuant to State law as a scenic area.
(m)
Sign
means any outdoor sign, display, device, figure, painting, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, or other thing which is designed, intended, or used to advertise or inform, any part of the advertising or informative contents of which is visible from any place on the main-traveled way of a controlled portion of the Interstate System.
(n)
State
means the District of Columbia and any State of the United States within the boundaries of which a portion of the Interstate System is located.
(o)
State law
means a State constitutional provision or statute, or an ordinance, rule, or regulation enacted or adopted by a State agency or political subdivision of a State pursuant to State constitution or statute.
(p)
Trade name
shall include brand name, trademark, distinctive symbol, or other similar device or thing used to identify particular products or services.
(q)
Traveled way
means the portion of a roadway for the movement of vehicles, exclusive of shoulders.
(r)
Turning roadway
means a connecting roadway for traffic turning between two intersection legs of an interchange.
(s)
Visible
means capable of being seen (whether or not legible) without visual aid by a person of normal visual acuity.
§ 750.103
Measurements of distance.
(a) Distance from the edge of a right-of-way shall be measured horizontally along a line normal or perpendicular to the centerline of the highway.
(b) All distances under § 750.107 (a)(2) and (b) shall be measured along the centerline of the highway between two vertical planes which are normal or perpendicular to and intersect the centerline of the highway, and which pass through the termini of the measured distance.
[38 FR 16044, June 20, 1973, as amended at 41 FR 9321, Mar. 4, 1976]
§ 750.104
Signs that may not be permitted in protected areas.
Erection or maintenance of the following signs may not be permitted in protected areas:
(a) Signs advertising activities that are illegal under State or Federal laws or regulations in effect at the location of such signs or at the location of such activities.
(b) Obsolete signs.
(c) Signs that are not clean and in good repair.
(d) Signs that are not securely affixed to a substantial structure, and
(e) Signs that are not consistent with the standards in this part.
§ 750.105
Signs that may be permitted in protected areas.
(a) Erection or maintenance of the following signs may be permitted in protected areas:
Class 1—Official signs.
Directional or other official signs or notices erected and maintained by public officers or agencies pursuant to and in accordance with direction or authorization contained in State of Federal law, for the purpose of carrying out an official duty or responsibility.
Class 2—On-premise signs.
Signs not prohibited by State law which are consistent with the applicable provisions of this section and § 750.108 and which advertise the sale or lease of, or activities being conducted upon, the real property where the signs are located.
Not more than one such sign advertising the sale or lease of the same property may be permitted under this class in such manner as to be visible to traffic proceeding in any one direction on any one Interstate Highway.
Not more than one such sign, visible to traffic proceeding in any one direction on any one Interstate Highway and advertising
activities being conducted upon the real property where the sign is located, may be permitted under this class more than 50 feet from the advertised activity.
Class 3—Signs within 12 miles of advertised activities.
Signs not prohibited by State law which are consistent with the applicable provisions of this section and §§ 750.106, 750.107, and 750.108 and which advertise activities being conducted within 12 air miles of such signs.
Class 4—Signs in the specific interest of the traveling public.
Signs authorized to be erected or maintained by State law which are consistent with the applicable provisions of this section and §§ 750.106, 750.107, and 750.108 and which are designed to give information in the specific interest of the traveling public.
(b) A Class 2 or 3 sign, except a Class 2 sign not more than 50 feet from the advertised activity, that displays any trade name which refers to or identifies any service rendered or product sold, used, or otherwise handled more than 12 air miles from such sign may not be permitted unless the name of the advertised activity which is within 12 air miles of such sign is displayed as conspicuously as such trade name.
(c) Only information about public places operated by Federal, State, or local governments, natural phenomena, historic sites, areas of natural scenic beauty or naturally suited for outdoor recreation and places for camping, lodging, eating, and vehicle service and repair is deemed to be in the specific interest of the traveling public. For the purposes of the standards in this part, a trade name is deemed to be information in the specific interest of the traveling public only if it identifies or characterizes such a place or identifies vehicle service, equipment, parts, accessories, fuels, oils, or lubricants being offered for sale at such a place. Signs displaying any other trade name may not be permitted under Class 4.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, Class 2 or Class 3 signs which also qualify as Class 4 signs may display trade names in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 750.106
Class 3 and 4 signs within informational sites.
(a) Informational sites for the erection and maintenance of Class 3 and 4 advertising and informational signs may be established in accordance with § 1.35 of this chapter. The location and frequency of such sites shall be as determined by agreements between the Secretary of Transportation and the State highway departments.
(b) Class 3 and 4 signs may be permitted within such informational sites in protected areas in a manner consistent with the following provisions:
(1) No sign may be permitted which is not placed upon a panel.
(2) No panel may be permitted to exceed 13 feet in height or 25 feet in length, including border and trim, but excluding supports.
(3) No sign may be permitted to exceed 12 square feet in area, and nothing on such sign may be permitted to be legible from any place on the main-traveled way or a turning roadway.
(4) Not more than one sign concerning a single activity or place may be permitted within any one informational site.
(5) Signs concerning a single activity or place may be permitted within more than one informational site, but no Class 3 sign which does not also qualify as a Class 4 sign may be permitted within any informational site more than 12 air miles from the advertised activity.
(6) No sign may be permitted which moves or has any animated or moving parts.
(7) Illumination of panels by other than white lights may not be permitted, and no sign placed on any panel may be permitted to contain, include, or be illuminated by any other lights, or any flashing, intermittent, or moving lights.
(8) No lighting may be permitted to be used in any way in connection with any panel unless it is so effectively shielded as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the main-traveled way of the Interstate System, or is of such low intensity or brilliance as not to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or to otherwise interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
[23 FR 8793, Nov. 13, 1958, as amended at 35 FR 18719, Dec. 10, 1970; 41 FR 9321, Mar. 4, 1976]
§ 750.107
Class 3 and 4 signs outside informational sites.
(a) The erection or maintenance of the following signs may be permitted within protected areas, outside informational sites:
(1) Class 3 signs which are visible only to Interstate highway traffic not served by an informational site within 12 air miles of the advertised activity;
(2) Class 4 signs which are more than 12 miles from the nearest panel within an informational site serving Interstate highway traffic to which such signs are visible.
(3) Signs that qualify both as Class 3 and 4 signs may be permitted in accordance with either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(b) The erection or maintenance of signs permitted under paragraph (a) of this section may not be permitted in any manner inconsistent with the following:
(1) In protected areas in advance of an intersection of the main-traveled way of an Interstate highway and an exit roadway, such signs visible to Interstate highway traffic approaching such intersection may not be permitted to exceed the following number:
Distance from intersection
Number of signs
0-2 miles
0.
2-5 miles
6.
More than 5 miles
Average of one sign per mile.
The specified distances shall be measured to the nearest point of the intersection of the traveled way of the exit roadway and the main-traveled way of the Interstate highway.
(2) Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph, not more than two such signs may be permitted within any mile distance measured from any point, and no such signs may be permitted to be less than 1,000 feet apart.
(3) Such signs may not be permitted in protected areas adjacent to any Interstate highway right-of-way upon any part of the width of which is constructed an entrance or exit roadway.
(4) Such signs visible to Interstate highway traffic which is approaching or has passed an entrance roadway may not be permitted in protected areas for 1,000 feet beyond the furthest point of the intersection between the traveled way of such entrance roadway and the main-traveled way of the Interstate highway.
(5) No such signs may be permitted in scenic areas.
(6) Not more than one such sign advertising activities being conducted as a single enterprise or giving information about a single place may be permitted to be erected or maintained in such manner as to be visible to traffic moving in any one direction on any one Interstate highway.
(c) No Class 3 or 4 signs other than those permitted by this section may be permitted to be erected or maintained within protected areas, outside informational sites.
§ 750.108
General provisions.
No Class 3 or 4 signs may be permitted to be erected or maintained pursuant to § 750.107, and no Class 2 sign may be permitted to be erected or maintained, in any manner inconsistent with the following:
(a) No sign may be permitted which attempts or appears to attempt to direct the movement of traffic or which interferes with, imitates or resembles any official traffic sign, signal or device.
(b) No sign may be permitted which prevents the driver of a vehicle from having a clear and unobstructed view of official signs and approaching or merging traffic.
(c) No sign may be permitted which contains, includes, or is illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving light or lights.
(d) No lighting may be permitted to be used in any way in connection with any sign unless it is so effectively shielded as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the main-traveled way of the Interstate System, or is of such low intensity or brilliance as not to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or to otherwise interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
(e) No sign may be permitted which moves or has any animated or moving parts.
(f) No sign may be permitted to be erected or maintained upon trees or
painted or drawn upon rocks or other natural features.
(g) No sign may be permitted to exceed 20 feet in length, width or height, or 150 square feet in area, including border and trim but excluding supports, except Class 2 signs not more than 50 feet from, and advertising activities being conducted upon, the real property where the sign is located.
§ 750.109
Exclusions.
The standards in this part shall not apply to markers, signs and plaques in appreciation of sites of historical significance for the erection of which provisions are made in an agreement between a State and the Secretary of Transportation, as provided in the Act, unless such agreement expressly makes all or any part of the standards applicable.
§ 750.110
State regulations.
A State may elect to prohibit signs permissible under the standards in this part without forfeiting its rights to any benefits provided for in the act.

# Subpart B—National Standards for Directional and Official Signs

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 131, 315, 49 U.S.C. 1651; 49 CFR 1.48(b).
§ 750.151
Purpose.
(a) In section 131 of title 23 U.S.C., Congress has declared that:
(1) The erection and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs, displays, and devices in areas adjacent to the Interstate System and the primary system should be controlled in order to protect the public investment in such highways, to promote safety and recreational value of public travel, and to preserve natural beauty.
(2) Directional and official signs and notices, which signs and notices shall include, but not be limited to, signs and notices pertaining to natural wonders, scenic and historical attractions, which are required or authorized by law, shall conform to national standards authorized to be promulgated by the Secretary, which standards shall contain provisions concerning the lighting, size, number and spacing of signs, and such other requirements as may be appropriate to implement the section.
(b) The standards in this part are issued as provided in section 131 of title 23 U.S.C.
[38 FR 16044, June 30, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 21934, May 20, 1975]
§ 750.152
Application.
The following standards apply to directional and official signs and notices located within six hundred and sixty (660) feet of the right-of-way of the Interstate and Federal-aid primary systems and to those located beyond six hundred and sixty (660) feet of the right-of-way of such systems, outside of urban areas, visible from the main traveled way of such systems and erected with the purpose of their message being read from such main traveled way. These standards do not apply to directional and official signs erected on the highway right-of-way.
[40 FR 21934, May 20, 1975]
§ 750.153
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
(a)
Sign
means an outdoor sign, light, display, device, figure, painting, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, or other thing which is designed, intended, or used to advertise or inform, any part of the advertising or informative contents of which is visible from any place on the main traveled way of the Interstate or Federal-aid primary highway.
(b)
Main traveled way
means the through traffic lanes of the highway, exclusive of frontage roads, auxiliary lanes, and ramps.
(c)
Interstate System
means the National System of Interstate and Defence Highways described in section 103(d) of title 23 U.S.C.
(d)
Primary system
means the Federal-aid highway system described in section 103(b) of title 23 U.S.C.
(e)
Erect
means to construct, build, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, create, paint, draw, or in any other way bring into being or establish.
(f)
Maintain
means to allow to exist.
(g)
Scenic area
means any area of particular scenic beauty or historical significance as determined by the Federal,
State, or local officials having jurisdiction thereof, and includes interests in land which have been acquired for the restoration, preservation, and enhancement of scenic beauty.
(h)
Parkland
means any publicly owned land which is designated or used as a public park, recreation area, wildlife or waterfowl refuge or historic site.
(i)
Federal or State law
means a Federal or State constitutional provision or statute, or an ordinance, rule, or regulation enacted or adopted by a State or Federal agency or a political subdivision of a State pursuant to a Federal or State constitution or statute.
(j)
Visible
means capable of being seen (whether or not legible) without visual aid by a person of normal visual acuity.
(k)
Freeway
means a divided arterial highway for through traffic with full control of access.
(l)
Rest area
means an area or site established and maintained within or adjacent to the highway right-of-way by or under public supervision or control for the convenience of the traveling public.
(m)
Directional and official signs and notices
includes only official signs and notices, public utility signs, service club and religious notices, public service signs, and directional signs.
(n)
Official signs and notices
means signs and notices erected and maintained by public officers or public agencies within their territorial or zoning jurisdiction and pursuant to and in accordance with direction or authorization contained in Federal, State, or local law for the purposes of carrying out an official duty or responsibility. Historical markers authorized by State law and erected by State or local government agencies or nonprofit historical societies may be considered official signs.
(o)
Public utility signs
means warning signs, informational signs, notices, or markers which are customarily erected and maintained by publicly or privately owned public utilities, as essential to their operations.
(p)
Service club and religious notices
means signs and notices, whose erection is authorized by law, relating to meetings of nonprofit service clubs or charitable associations, or religious services, which signs do not exceed 8 square feet in area.
(q)
Public service signs
means signs located on school bus stop shelters, which signs:
(1) Identify the donor, sponsor, or contributor of said shelters;
(2) Contain public service messages, which shall occupy not less than 50 percent of the area of the sign;
(3) Contain no other message;
(4) Are located on schoolbus shelters which are authorized or approved by city, county, or State law, regulation, or ordinance, and at places approved by the city, county, or State agency controlling the highway involved; and
(5) May not exceed 32 square feet in area. Not more than one sign on each shelter shall face in any one direction.
(r)
Directional signs
means signs containing directional information about public places owned or operated by Federal, State, or local governments or their agencies; publicly or privately owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, and religious sites; and areas of natural scenic beauty or naturally suited for outdoor recreation, deemed to be in the interest of the traveling public.
(s)
State
means any one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
(t)
Urban area
means an urbanized area or, in the case of an urbanized area encompassing more than one State, that part of the urbanized areas in each such State, or an urban place as designated by the Bureau of the Census having a population of five thousand or more and not within any urbanized area, within boundaries to be fixed by responsible State and local officials in cooperation with each other, subject to approval by the Secretary. Such boundaries shall, as a minimum, encompass the entire urban place designated by the Bureau of the Census.
[38 FR 16044, June 30, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 21934, May 20, 1975]
§ 750.154
Standards for directional signs.
The following apply only to directional signs:
(a)
General.
The following signs are prohibited:
(1) Signs advertising activities that are illegal under Federal or State laws or regulations in effect at the location of those signs or at the location of those activities.
(2) Signs located in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device, or obstruct or interfere with the driver's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
(3) Signs which are erected or maintained upon trees or painted or drawn upon rocks or other natural features.
(4) Obsolete signs.
(5) Signs which are structurally unsafe or in disrepair.
(6) Signs which move or have any animated or moving parts.
(7) Signs located in rest areas, parklands or scenic areas.
(b)
Size.
(1) No sign shall exceed the following limits:
(i) Maximum area—150 square feet.
(ii) Maximum height—20 feet.
(iii) Maximum length—20 feet.
(2) All dimensions include border and trim, but exclude supports.
(c)
Lighting.
Signs may be illuminated, subject to the following:
(1) Signs which contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, or moving light or lights are prohibited.
(2) Signs which are not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled way of an Interstate or primary highway or which are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or which otherwise interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle are prohibited.
(3) No sign may be so illuminated as to interfere with the effectiveness of or obscure an official traffic sign, device, or signal.
(d)
Spacing.
(1) Each location of a directional sign must be approved by the State highway department.
(2) No directional sign may be located within 2,000 feet of an interchange, or intersection at grade along the Interstate System or other freeways (measured along the Interstate or freeway from the nearest point of the beginning or ending of pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main traveled way).
(3) No directional sign may be located within 2,000 feet of a rest area, parkland, or scenic area.
(4)(i) No two directional signs facing the same direction of travel shall be spaced less than 1 mile apart;
(ii) Not more than three directional signs pertaining to the same activity and facing the same direction of travel may be erected along a single route approaching the activity;
(iii) Signs located adjacent to the Interstate System shall be within 75 air miles of the activity; and
(iv) Signs located adjacent to the primary system shall be within 50 air miles of the activity.
(e)
Message content.
The message on directional signs shall be limited to the identification of the attraction or activity and directional information useful to the traveler in locating the attraction, such as mileage, route numbers, or exit numbers. Descriptive words or phrases, and pictorial or photographic representations of the activity or its environs are prohibited.
(f)
Selection method and criteria.
(1) Privately owned activities or attractions eligible for directional signing are limited to the following: natural phenomena; scenic attractions; historic, educational, cultural, scientific, and religious sites; and outdoor recreational areas.
(2) To be eligible, privately owned attractions or activities must be nationally or regionally known, and of outstanding interest to the traveling public.
(3) Each State shall develop specific selection methods and criteria to be used in determining whether or not an activity qualifies for this type of signing. A statement as to selection methods and criteria shall be furnished to the Secretary of Transportation before the State permits the erection of any such signs under section 131(c) of title 23 U.S.C., and this part.
§ 750.155
State standards.
This part does not prohibit a State from establishing and maintaining standards which are more restrictive with respect to directional and official
signs and notices along the Federal-aid highway systems than these national standards.
[38 FR 16044, June 20, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 21934, May 20, 1975]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Outdoor Advertising (Acquisition of Rights of Sign and Sign Site Owners)

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 131 and 315; 23 CFR 1.32 and 1.48(b).

# Source:
39 FR 27436, July 29, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 750.301
Purpose.
To prescribe the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) policies relating to Federal participation in the costs of acquiring the property interests necessary for removal of nonconforming advertising signs, displays and devices on the Federal-aid Primary and Interstate Systems, including toll sections on such systems, regardless of whether Federal funds participated in the construction thereof. This regulation should not be construed to authorize any additional rights in eminent domain not already existing under State law or under 23 U.S.C. 131(g).
§ 750.302
Policy.
(a) Just compensation shall be paid for the rights and interests of the sign and site owner in those outdoor advertising signs, displays, or devices which are lawfully existing under State law, in conformance with the terms of 23 U.S.C. 131.
(b)(1) Federal reimbursement will be made on the basis of 75 percent of the acquisition, removal and incidental costs legally incurred or obligated by the State.
(2) Federal funds will participate in 100 percent of the costs of removal of those signs which were removed prior to January 4, 1975, by relocation, pursuant to the provisions of 23 CFR § 750.305(a)(2), and which are required to be removed as a result of the amendments made to 23 U.S.C. 131 by the Federal-Aid Highway Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93-643, section 109, January 4, 1975. Such signs must have been relocated to a legal site, must have been legally maintained since the relocation, and must not have been substantially changed, as defined by the State maintenance standards, issued pursuant to 23 CFR 750.707(b).
(c) Title III of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4651,
et seq.
) applies except where complete conformity would defeat the purposes set forth in 42 U.S.C. 4651, would impede the expeditious implementation of the sign removal program or would increase administrative costs out of proportion to the cost of the interests being acquired or extinguished.
(d) Projects for the removal of outdoor advertising signs including hardship acquisitions should be programed and authorized in accordance with normal program procedures for right-of-way projects.
[39 FR 27436, July 29, 1974; 39 FR 30349, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31198, July 27, 1976]
§ 750.303
Definitions.
(a)
Sign.
An outdoor sign, light, display, device, figure, painting, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard or other thing which is designed, intended of the advertising or informative contents of which is visible from any place on the main-traveled way of the Interstate or Primary Systems, whether the same be permanent or portable installation.
(b)
Lease (license, permit, agreement, contract or easement).
An agreement, oral or in writing, by which possession or use of land or interests therein is given by the owner or other person to another person for a specified purpose.
(c)
Leasehold value.
The leasehold value is the present worth of the difference between the contractual rent and the current market rent at the time of the appraisal.
(d)
Illegal sign.
One which was erected and/or maintained in violation of State law.
(e)
Nonconforming sign.
One which was lawfully erected, but which does not comply with the provisions of State law or State regulations passed at a later date or which later fails to comply with State law or State regulations due to changed conditions. Illegally
erected or maintained signs are not nonconforming signs.
(f)
1966 inventory.
The record of the survey of advertising signs and junkyards compiled by the State highway department.
(g)
Abandoned sign.
One in which no one has an interest, or as defined by State law.
§ 750.304
State policies and procedures.
The State's written policies and operating procedures for implementing its sign removal program under State law and complying with 23 U.S.C. 131 and its proposed time schedule for sign removal and procedure for reporting its accomplishments shall be submitted to the FHWA for approval within 90 days of the date of this regulation. This statement should be supported by the State's regulations implementing its program. Revisions to the State's policies and procedures shall be submitted to the FHWA for approval. The statement should contain provisions for the review of its policies and procedure to meet changing conditions, adoption of improved procedures, and for internal review to assure compliance. The statement shall include as a minimum the following:
(a)
Project priorities.
The following order of priorities is recommended.
(1) Illegal and abandoned signs.
(2) Hardship situations.
(3) Nominal value signs.
(4) Signs in areas which have been designated as scenic under authority of State law.
(5) Product advertising on:
(i) Rural interstate highway.
(ii) Rural primary highway.
(iii) Urban areas.
(6) Nontourist-oriented directional advertising.
(7) Tourist-oriented directional advertising.
(b)
Programing.
(1) A sign removal project may consist of any group of proposed sign removals. The signs may be those belonging to one company or those located along a single route, all of the signs in a single county or other locality, hardship situations, individually or grouped, such as those involving vandalized signs, or all of a sign owner's signs in a given State or area, or any similar grouping.
(2) A project for sign removal on other than a Federal-aid primary route basis e.g., a countywide project or a project involving only signs owned by one company, should be identified as CAF-000B( ), continuing the numbering sequence which began with the sign inventory project in 1966.
(3) Where it would not interfere with the State's operations, the State should program sign removal projects to minimize disruption of business.
(c)
Valuation and review methods
—(1)
Schedules—formulas.
Schedules, formulas or other methods to simplify valuation of signs and sites are recommended for the purpose of minimizing administrative and legal expenses necessarily involved in determining just compensation by individual appraisals and litigation. They do not purport to be a basis for the determination of just compensation under eminent domain.
(2)
Appraisals.
Where appropriate, the State may use its approved appraisal report forms including those for abbreviated or short form appraisals. Where a sign or site owner does not accept the amount computed under an approved schedule, formula, or other simplified method, an appraisal shall be utilized.
(3)
Leaseholds.
When outdoor advertising signs and sign sites involve a leasehold value, the State's procedures should provide for determining value in the same manner as any other real estate leasehold that has value to the lessee.
(4)
Severance damages.
The State has the responsibility of justifying the recognition of severance damages pursuant to 23 CFR 710.304(h), and the law of the State before Federal participation will be allowed. Generally, Federal participation will not be allowed in the payment of severance damages to remaining signs, or other property of a sign company alleged to be due to the taking of certain of the company's signs. Unity of use of the separate properties, as required by applicable principles of eminent domain law, must be shown to exist before participation in severance damages will be allowed. Moreover, the value of the remaining signs or other real property
must be diminished by virtue of the taking of such signs. Payments for severance damages to economic plants or loss of business profits are not compensable. Severance damage cases must be submitted to the FHWA for prior concurrence, together with complete legal and appraisal justification for payment of these damages. To assist the FHWA in its evaluation, the following data will accompany any submission regarding severance:
(i) One copy of each appraisal in which this was analyzed. One copy of the State's review appraiser analysis and determination of market value.
(ii) A plan or map showing the location of each sign.
(iii) An opinion by the State highway department's chief legal officer that severance is appropriate in accordance with State law together with a legal opinion that, in the instant case, the damages constitute severance as opposed to consequential damage as a matter of law. The opinion shall include a determination, and the basis therefor, that the specific taking of some of an outdoor advertiser's signs constitutes a distinct economic unit, and that unity of use of the separate properties in conformity with applicable principles of eminent domain law had been satisfactorily established. A legal memorandum must be furnished citing and discussing cases and other authorities supporting the State's position.
(5)
Review of value estimates.
All estimates of value shall be reviewed by a person other than the one who made the estimate. Appraisal reports shall be reviewed and approved prior to initiation of negotiations. All other estimates shall be reviewed before the agreement becomes final.
(d)
Nominal value plan.
(1) This plan may provide for the removal costs of eligible nominal value signs and for payments up to $250 for each nonconforming sign, and up to $100 for each nonconforming sign site.
(2) The State's procedures may provide for negotiations for sign sites and sign removals to be accomplished simultaneously without prior review.
(3) Releases or agreements executed by the sign and/or site owner should include the identification of the sign, statement of ownership, price to be paid, interest acquired, and removal rights.
(4) It is not expected that salvage value will be a consideration in most acquisitions; however, the State's procedures may provide that the sign may be turned over to the sign owner, site owner, contractor, or individual as all or a part of the consideration for its removal, without any project credits.
(5) Programing and authorizations will be in accord with § 750.308 of this regulation. A detailed estimate of value of each individual sign is not necessary. The project may be programed and authorized as one project.
(e)
Sign removal.
The State's procedural statement should include provision for:
(1) Owner retention.
(2) Salvage value.
(3) State removal.
[39 FR 27436, July 29, 1974; 42 FR 30835, June 17, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 34093, Aug. 23, 1985]
§ 750.305
Federal participation.
(a) Federal funds may participate in:
(1) Payments made to a sign owner for his right, title and interest in a sign, and where applicable, his leasehold value in a sign site, and to a site owner for his right and interest in a site, which is his right to erect and maintain the existing nonconforming sign on such site.
(2) The cost of relocating a sign to the extent of the cost to acquire the sign, less salvage value if any.
(3) A duplicate payment for the site owner's interest of $2,500 or less because of a bona fide error in ownership, provided the State has followed its title search procedures as set forth in its policy and procedure submission.
(4) The cost of removal of signs, partially completed sign structures, supporting poles, abandoned signs and those which are illegal under State law within the controlled areas, provided such costs are incurred in accordance with State law. Removal may be by State personnel on a force account basis or by contract. Documentation for Federal participation in such removal projects should be in accord with the State's normal force account
and contractual reimbursement procedures. The State should maintain a record of the number of signs removed. These data should be retained in project records and reported on the periodic report required under § 750.308 of this regulation.
(5) Signs materially damaged by vandals. Federal funds shall be limited to the Federal pro-rata share of the fair market value of the sign immediately before the vandalism occurred minus the estimated cost of repairing and reerecting the sign. If the State chooses, it may use its FHWA approved nominal value plan procedure to acquire these signs.
(6) The cost of acquiring and removing completed sign structures which have been blank or painted out beyond the period of time established by the State for normal maintenance and change of message, provided the sign owner can establish that his nonconforming use was not abandoned or discontinued, and provided such costs are incurred in accordance with State law, or regulation. The evidence considered by the State as acceptable for establishing or showing that the nonconforming use has not been abandoned or voluntarily discontinued shall be set forth in the State's policy and procedures.
(7) In the event a sign was omitted in the 1966 inventory, and the State supports a determination that the sign was in existence prior to October 22, 1965, the costs are eligible for Federal participation.
(b) Federal funds may not participate in:
(1) Cost of title certificates, title insurance, title opinion or similar evidence or proof of title in connection with the acquisition of a landowner's right to erect and maintain a sign or signs when the amount of payment to the landowner for his interest is $2,500 or less, unless required by State law. However, Federal funds may participate in the costs of securing some lesser evidence or proof of title such as searches and investigations by State highway department personnel to the extent necessary to determine ownership, affidavit of ownership by the owner, bill of sale, etc. The State's procedure for determining evidence of title should be set forth in the State's policy and procedure submission.
(2) Payments to a sign owner where the sign was erected without permission of the property owner unless the sign owner can establish his legal right to erect and maintain the sign. However, such signs may be removed by State personnel on a force account basis or by contract with Federal participation except where the sign owner reimburses the State for removal.
(3) Acquisition costs paid for abandoned or illegal signs, potential sign sites, or signs which were built during a period of time which makes them ineligible for compensation under 23 U.S.C. 131, or for rights in sites on which signs have been abandoned or illegally erected by a sign owner.
(4) The acquisition cost of supporting poles or partially completed sign structures in nonconforming areas which do not have advertising or informative content thereon unless the owner can show to the State's satisfaction he has not abandoned the structure. When the State has determined the sign structure has not been abandoned, Federal funds will participate in the acquisition of the structure, provided the cost are incurred in accordance with State law.
§ 750.306
Documentation for Federal participation.
The following information concerning each sign must be available in the State's files to be eligible for Federal participation.
(a)
Payment to sign owner.
(1) A photograph of the sign in place. Exceptions may be made in cases where in one transaction the State has acquired a number of a company's nominal value signs similar in size, condition and shape. In such cases, only a sample of representative photographs need be provided to document the type and condition of the signs.
(2) Evidence showing the sign was nonconforming as of the date of taking.
(3) Value documentation and proof of obligation of funds.
(4) Satisfactory indication of ownership of the sign and compensable interest therein (e.g., lease or other agreement with the property owner, or an
affidavit, certification, or other such evidence of ownership).
(5) Evidence that the sign falls within one of the three categories shown in § 750.302 of this regulation. The specific category should be identified.
(6) Evidence that the right, title, or interest pertaining to the sign has passed to the State, or that the sign has been removed.
(b)
Payment to the site owner.
(1) Evidence that an agreement has been reached between the State and owner.
(2) Value documentation and proof of obligation of funds.
(3) Satisfactory indication of ownership or compensable interest.
(c) In those cases where Federal funds participate in 100 percent of the cost of removal, the State file shall contain the records of the relocation made prior to January 4, 1975.
[39 FR 27436, July 29, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31198, July 27, 1976]
§ 750.307
FHWA project approval.
Authorization to proceed with acquisitions on a sign removal project shall not be issued until such time as the State has submitted to FHWA the following:
(a) A general description of the project.
(b) The total number of signs to be acquired.
(c) The total estimated cost of the sign removal project, including a breakdown of incidental, acquisition and removal costs.
§ 750.308
Reports.
Periodic reports on site acquisitions and actual sign removals shall be submitted on FHWA Form 1424 and as prescribed.
1
1
Forms are available at FHWA Division Offices located in each State.
[39 FR 27436, July 29, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 9321, Mar. 4, 1976]

# Subpart E—Signs Exempt From Removal in Defined Areas

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 131 and 315, 49 CFR 1.48, 23 CFR 1.32.

# Source:
41 FR 45827, Oct. 18, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 750.501
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the procedures pursuant to which a State may, if it desires, seek an exemption from the acquisition requirements of 23 U.S.C. 131 for signs giving directional information about goods and services in the interest of the traveling public in defined areas which would suffer substantial economic hardship if such signs were removed. This exemption may be granted pursuant to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 131(o).
§ 750.502
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply to signs adjacent to the Interstate and primary systems which are required to be controlled under 23 U.S.C. 131.
§ 750.503
Exemptions.
(a) The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) may approve a State's request to exempt certain nonconforming signs, displays, and devices (hereinafter called signs) within a defined area from being acquired under the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 131 upon a showing that removal would work a substantial economic hardship throughout that area. A defined area is an area with clearly established geographical boundaries defined by the State which the State can evaluate as an economic entity. Neither the States nor FHWA shall rely on individual claims of economic hardship. Exempted signs must:
(1) Have been lawfully erected prior to May 5, 1976, and must continue to be lawfully maintained.
(2) Continue to provide the directional information to goods and services offered at the same enterprise in the defined area in the interest of the traveling public that was provided on May 5, 1976. Repair and maintenance of these signs shall conform with the State's approved maintenance standards as required by subpart G of this part.
(b) To obtain the exemption permitted by 23 U.S.C. 131(o), the State shall establish:
(1) Its requirements for the directional content of signs to qualify the signs as directional signs to goods and services in the defined area.
(2) A method of economic analysis clearly showing that the removal of
signs would work a substantial economic hardship throughout the defined area.
(c) In support of its request for exemption, the State shall submit to the FHWA:
(1) Its requirements and method (see § 750.503(b)).
(2) The limits of the defined area(s) requested for exemption, a listing of signs to be exempted, their location, and the name of the enterprise advertised on May 5, 1976.
(3) The application of the requirements and method to the defined areas, demonstrating that the signs provide directional information to goods and services of interest to the traveling public in the defined area, and that removal would work a substantial economic hardship in the defined area(s).
(4) A statement that signs in the defined area(s) not meeting the exemption requirements will be removed in accordance with State law.
(5) A statement that the defined area will be reviewed and evaluated at least every three (3) years to determine if an exemption is still warranted.
(d) The FHWA, upon receipt of a State's request for exemption, shall prior to approval:
(1) Review the State's requirements and methods for compliance with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 131 and this subpart.
(2) Review the State's request and the proposed exempted area for compliance with State requirements and methods.
(e) Nothing herein shall prohibit the State from acquiring signs in the defined area at the request of the sign owner.
(f) Nothing herein shall prohibit the State from imposing or maintaining stricter requirements.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Outdoor Advertising Control

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 131 and 315; 49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
40 FR 42844, Sept. 16, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 750.701
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) policies and requirements relating to the effective control of outdoor advertising under 23 U.S.C. 131. The purpose of these policies and requirements is to assure that there is effective State control of outdoor advertising in areas adjacent to Interstate and Federal-aid primary highways. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to prevent a State from establishing more stringent outdoor advertising control requirements along Interstate and Primary Systems than provided herein.
§ 750.702
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart are applicable to all areas adjacent to the Federal-aid Interstate and Primary Systems, including toll sections thereof, except that within urban areas, these provisions apply only within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way. These provisions apply regardless of whether Federal funds participated in the costs of such highways. The provisions of this subpart do not apply to the Federal-aid Secondary or Urban Highway System.
§ 750.703
Definitions.
The terms as used in this subpart are defined as follows:
(a)
Commercial and industrial zones
are those districts established by the zoning authorities as being most appropriate for commerce, industry, or trade, regardless of how labeled. They are commonly categorized as commercial, industrial, business, manufacturing, highway service or highway business (when these latter are intended for highway-oriented business), retail, trade, warehouse, and similar classifications.
(b)
Erect
means to construct, build, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, create, paint, draw, or in any other way bring into being or establish.
(c)
Federal-aid Primary Highway
means any highway on the system designated pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 103(b).
(d)
Interstate Highway
means any highway on the system defined in and designated, pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 103(e).
(e)
Illegal sign
means one which was erected or maintained in violation of State law or local law or ordinance.
(f)
Lease
means an agreement, license, permit, or easement, oral or in writing, by which possession or use of land or interests therein is given for a specified purpose, and which is a valid contract under the laws of a State.
(g)
Maintain
means to allow to exist.
(h)
Main-traveled way
means the traveled way of a highway on which through traffic is carried. In the case of a divided highway, the traveled way of each of the separate roadways for traffic in opposite directions is a main-traveled way. It does not include such facilities as frontage roads, turning roadways, or parking areas.
(i)
Sign, display or device,
hereinafter referred to as “sign,” means an outdoor advertising sign, light, display, device, figure, painting, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, or other thing which is designed, intended, or used to advertise or inform, any part of the advertising or informative contents of which is visible from any place on the main-traveled way of the Interstate or Primary Systems, whether the same be permanent or portable installation.
(j)
State law
means a State constitutional provision or statute, or an ordinance, rule or regulation, enacted or adopted by a State.
(k)
Unzoned area
means an area where there is no zoning in effect. It does not include areas which have a rural zoning classification or land uses established by zoning variances or special exceptions.
(l)
Unzoned commercial or industrial areas
are unzoned areas actually used for commercial or industrial purposes as defined in the agreements made between the Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation (Secretary), and each State pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 131(d).
(m)
Urban area
is as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a).
(n)
Visible
means capable of being seen, wehter or not readable, without visual aid by a person of normal visual acuity.
§ 750.704
Statutory requirements.
(a) 23 U.S.C. 131 provides that signs adjacent to the Interstate and Federal-aid Primary Systems which are visible from the main-traveled way and within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way, and those additional signs beyond 660 feet outside of urban areas which are visible from the main-traveled way and erected with the purpose of their message being read from such main-traveled way, shall be limited to the following:
(1) Directional and official signs and notice which shall conform to national standards promulgated by the Secretary in subpart B, part 750, chapter I, 23 CFR, National Standards for Directional and Official Signs;
(2) Signs advertising the sale or lease of property upon which they are located;
(3) Signs advertising activities conducted on the property on which they are located;
(4) Signs within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way within areas adjacent to the Interstate and Federal-aid Primary Systems which are zoned industrial or commercial under the authority of State law;
(5) Signs within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way within areas adjacent to the Interstate and Federal-aid Primary Systems which are unzoned commercial or industrial areas, which areas are determined by agreement between the State and the Secretary; and
(6) Signs lawfully in existence on October 22, 1965, which are determined to be landmark signs.
(b) 23 U.S.C. 131(d) provides that signs in § 750.704(a) (4) and (5) must comply with size, lighting, and spacing requirements, to be determined by agreement between the State and the Secretary.
(c) 23 U.S.C. 131 does not permit signs to be located within zoned or unzoned commercial or industrial areas beyond 660 feet of the right-of-way adjacent to the Interstate or Federal-aid Primary System, outside of urban areas.
(d) 23 U.S.C. 131 provides that signs not permitted under § 750.704 of this regulation must be removed by the State.
§ 750.705
Effective control.
In order to provide effective control of outdoor advertising, the State must:
(a) Prohibit the erection of new signs other than those which fall under § 750.704(a)(1) through (6);
(b) Assure that signs erected under § 750.704(a)(4) and (5) comply, at a minimum, with size, lighting, and spacing criteria contained in the agreement between the Secretary and the State;
(c) Assure that signs erected under § 750.704(a)(1) comply with the national standards contained in subpart B, part 750, chapter I, 23 CFR;
(d) Remove illegal signs expeditiously;
(e) Remove nonconforming signs with just compensation within the time period set by 23 U.S.C. 131 (subpart D, part 750, chapter I, 23 CFR, sets forth policies for the acquisition and compensation for such signs);
(f) Assure that signs erected under § 750.704(a)(6) comply with § 750.710, Landmark Signs, if landmark signs are allowed;
(g) Establish criteria for determining which signs have been erected with the purpose of their message being read from the main-traveled way of an Interstate or primary highway, except where State law makes such criteria unnecessary. Where a sign is erected with the purpose of its message being read from two or more highways, one or more of which is a controlled highway, the more stringent of applicable control requirements will apply;
(h) Develop laws, regulations, and procedures to accomplish the requirements of this subpart;
(i) Establish enforcement procedures sufficient to discover illegally erected or maintained signs shortly after such occurrence and cause their prompt removal; and
(j) Submit regulations and enforcement procedures to FHWA for approval.
[40 FR 42844, Sept. 16, 1975; 40 FR 49777, Oct. 24, 1975]
§ 750.706
Sign control in zoned and unzoned commercial and industrial areas.
The following requirements apply to signs located in zoned and unzoned commercial and industrial areas within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way adjacent to the Interstate and Federal-aid primary highways.
(a) The State by law or regulation shall, in conformity with its agreement with the Secretary, set criteria for size, lighting, and spacing of outdoor advertising signs located in commercial or industrial zoned or unzoned areas, as defined in the agreement, adjacent to Interstate and Federal-aid primary highways. If the agreement between the Secretary and the State includes a grandfather clause, the criteria for size, lighting, and spacing will govern only those signs erected subsequent to the date specified in the agreement. The States may adopt more restrictive criteria than are presently contained in agreements with the Secretary.
(b) Agreement criteria which permit multiple sign structures to be considered as one sign for spacing purposes must limit multiple sign structures to signs which are physically contiguous, or connected by the same structure or cross-bracing, or located not more than 15 feet apart at their nearest point in the case of back-to-back or “V” type signs.
(c) Where the agreement and State law permits control by local zoning authorities, these controls may govern in lieu of the size, lighting, and spacing controls set forth in the agreement, subject to the following:
(1) The local zoning authority's controls must include the regulation of size, of lighting and of spacing of outdoor advertising signs, in all commercial and industrial zones.
(2) The regulations established by local zoning authority may be either more restrictive or less restrictive than the criteria contained in the agreement, unless State law or regulations require equivalent or more restrictive local controls.
(3) If the zoning authority has been delegated, extraterritorial, jurisdiction under State law, and exercises control of outdoor advertising in commercial and industrial zones within this extraterritorial jurisdiction, control by the zoning authority may be accepted in lieu of agreement controls in such areas.
(4) The State shall notify the FHWA in writing of those zoning jurisdictions wherein local control applies. It will not be necessary to furnish a copy of
the zoning ordinance. The State shall periodically assure itself that the size, lighting, and spacing control provisions of zoning ordinances accepted under this section are actually being enforced by the local authorities.
(5) Nothing contained herein shall relieve the State of the responsibility of limiting signs within controlled areas to commercial and industrial zones.
§ 750.707
Nonconforming signs.
(a)
General.
The provisions of § 750.707 apply to nonconforming signs which must be removed under State laws and regulations implementing 23 U.S.C. 131. These provisions also apply to nonconforming signs located in commercial and industrial areas within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way which come under the so-called grandfather clause contained in State-Federal agreements. These provisions do not apply to conforming signs regardless of when or where they are erected.
(b)
Nonconforming signs.
A nonconforming sign is a sign which was lawfully erected but does not comply with the provisions of State law or State regulations passed at a later date or later fails to comply with State law or State regulations due to changed conditions. Changed conditions include, for example, signs lawfully in existence in commercial areas which at a later date become noncommercial, or signs lawfully erected on a secondary highway later classified as a primary highway.
(c)
Grandfather clause.
At the option of the State, the agreement may contain a grandfather clause under which criteria relative to size, lighting, and spacing of signs in zoned and unzoned commercial and industrial areas within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way apply only to new signs to be erected after the date specified in the agreement. Any sign lawfully in existence in a commercial or industrial area on such date may remain even though it may not comply with the size, lighting, or spacing criteria. This clause only allows an individual sign at its particular location for the duration of its normal life subject to customary maintenance. Preexisting signs covered by a grandfather clause, which do not comply with the agreement criteria have the status of nonconforming signs.
(d)
Maintenance and continuance.
In order to maintain and continue a nonconforming sign, the following conditions apply:
(1) The sign must have been actually in existence at the time the applicable State law or regulations became effective as distinguished from a contemplated use such as a lease or agreement with the property owner. There are two exceptions to actual existence as follows:
(i) Where a permit or similar specific State governmental action was granted for the construction of a sign prior to the effective date of the State law or regulations and the sign owner acted in good faith and expended sums in reliance thereon. This exception shall not apply in instances where large numbers of permits were applied for and issued to a single sign owner, obviously in anticipation of the passage of a State control law.
(ii) Where the State outdoor advertising control law or the Federal-State agreement provides that signs in commercial and industrial areas may be erected within six (6) months after the effective date of the law or agreement provided a lease dated prior to such effective date was filed with the State and recorded within thirty (30) days following such effective date.
(2) There must be existing property rights in the sign affected by the State law or regulations. For example, paper signs nailed to trees, abandoned signs and the like are not protected.
(3) The sign may be sold, leased, or otherwise transferred without affecting its status, but its location may not be changed. A nonconforming sign removed as a result of a right-of-way taking or for any other reason may be relocated to a conforming area but cannot be reestablished at a new location as a nonconforming use.
(4) The sign must have been lawful on the effective date of the State law or regulations, and must continue to be lawfully maintained.
(5) The sign must remain substantially the same as it was on the effective date of the State law or regulations. Reasonable repair and maintenance of the sign, including a change of
advertising message, is not a change which would terminate nonconforming rights. Each State shall develop its own criteria to determine when customary maintenance ceases and a substantial change has occurred which would terminate nonconforming rights.
(6) The sign may continue as long as it is not destroyed, abandoned, or discontinued. If permitted by State law and reerected in kind, exception may be made for signs destroyed due to vandalism and other criminal or tortious acts.
(i) Each state shall develop criteria to define destruction, abandonment and discontinuance. These criteria may provide that a sign which for a designated period of time has obsolete advertising matter or is without advertising matter or is in need of substantial repair may constitute abandonment or discontinuance. Similarly, a sign damaged in excess of a certain percentage of its replacement cost may be considered destroyed.
(ii) Where an existing nonconforming sign ceases to display advertising matter, a reasonable period of time to replace advertising content must be established by each State. Where new content is not put on a structure within the established period, the use of the structure as a nonconforming outdoor advertising sign is terminated and shall constitute an abandonment or discontinuance. Where a State establishes a period of more than one (1) year as a reasonable period for change of message, it shall justify that period as a customary enforcement practice within the State. This established period may be waived for an involuntary discontinuance such as the closing of a highway for repair in front of the sign.
(e)
Just compensation.
The States are required to pay just compensation for the removal of nonconforming lawfully existing signs in accordance with the terms of 23 U.S.C. 131 and the provisions of subpart D, part 750, chapter I, 23 CFR. The conditions which establish a right to maintain a nonconforming sign and therefore the right to compensation must pertain at the time it is acquired or removed.
§ 750.708
Acceptance of state zoning.
(a) 23 U.S.C. 131(d) provide that signs “may be erected and maintained within 660 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way within areas . . . which are zoned industrial or commercial under authority of State law.” Section 131(d) further provides, “The States shall have full authority under their own zoning laws to zone areas for commercial or industrial purposes, and the actions of the States in this regard will be accepted for the purposes of this Act.”
(b) State and local zoning actions must be taken pursuant to the State's zoning enabling statute or constitutional authority and in accordance therewith. Action which is not a part of comprehensive zoning and is created primarily to permit outdoor advertising structures, is not recognized as zoning for outdoor advertising control purposes.
(c) Where a unit of government has not zoned in accordance with statutory authority or is not authorized to zone, the definition of an unzoned commercial or industrial area in the State-Federal agreement will apply within that political subdivision or area.
(d) A zone in which limited commercial or industrial activities are permitted as an incident to other primary land uses is not considered to be a commercial or industrial zone for outdoor advertising control purposes.
§ 750.709
On-property or on-premise advertising.
(a) A sign which consists solely of the name of the establishment or which identifies the establishment's principal or accessory products or services offered on the property is an on-property sign.
(b) When a sign consists principally of brand name or trade name advertising and the product or service advertised is only incidental to the principal activity, or if it brings rental income to the property owner, it shall be considered the business of outdoor advertising and not an on-property sign.
(c) A sale or lease sign which also advertises any product or service not conducted upon and unrelated to the business or selling or leasing the land on
which the sign is located is not an on-property sign.
(d) Signs are exempt from control under 23 U.S.C. 131 if they solely advertise the sale or lease of property on which they are located or advertise activities conducted on the property on which they are located. These signs are subject to regulation (subpart A, part 750, chapter I, 23 CFR) in those States which have executed a bonus agreement, 23 U.S.C. 131(j). State laws or regulations shall contain criteria for determining exemptions. These criteria may include:
(1) A property test for determining whether a sign is located on the same property as the activity or property advertised; and
(2) A purpose test for determining whether a sign has as its sole purpose the identification of the activity located on the property or its products or services, or the sale or lease of the property on which the sign is located.
(3) The criteria must be sufficiently specific to curb attempts to improperly qualify outdoor advertising as “on-property” signs, such as signs on narrow strips of land contiguous to the advertised activity when the purpose is clearly to circumvent 23 U.S.C. 131.
§ 750.710
Landmark signs.
(a) 23 U.S.C. 131(c) permits the existence of signs lawfully in existence on October 22, 1965, determined by the State, subject to the approval of the Secretary, to be landmark signs, including signs on farm structures or natural surfaces, of historic or artistic significance, the preservation of which is consistent with the purpose of 23 U.S.C. 131.
(b) States electing to permit landmark signs under 23 U.S.C. 131(c) shall submit a one-time list to the Federal Highway Administration for approval. The list should identify each sign as being in the original 1966 inventory. In the event a sign was omitted in the 1966 inventory, the State may submit other evidence to support a determination that the sign was in existence on October 22, 1965.
(c) Reasonable maintenance, repair, and restoration of a landmark sign is permitted. Substantial change in size, lighting, or message content will terminate its exempt status.
§ 750.711
Structures which have never displayed advertising material.
Structures, including poles, which have never displayed advertising or informative content are subject to control or removal when advertising content visible from the main-traveled way is added or affixed. When this is done, an “outdoor advertising sign” has then been erected which must comply with the State law in effect on that date.
§ 750.712
Reclassification of signs.
Any sign lawfully erected after the effective date of a State outdoor advertising control law which is reclassified from legal-conforming to nonconforming and subject to removal under revised State statutes or regulations and policy pursuant to this regulation is eligible for Federal participation in just compensation payments and other eligible costs.
§ 750.713
Bonus provisions.
23 U.S.C. 131(j) specifically provides that any State which had entered into a bonus agreement before June 30, 1965, will be entitled to remain eligible to receive bonus payments provided it continues to carry out its bonus agreement. Bonus States are not exempt from the other provisions of 23 U.S.C. 131. If a State elects to comply with both programs, it must extend controls to the Primary System, and continue to carry out its bonus agreement along the Interstate System except where 23 U.S.C. 131, as amended, imposes more stringent requirements.
Pt. 751

# PART 751—JUNKYARD CONTROL AND ACQUISITION
Sec.
751.1
Purpose.
751.3
Applicability.
751.5
Policy.
751.7
Definitions.
751.9
Effective control.
751.11
Nonconforming junkyards.
751.13
Control measures.
751.15
Just compensation.
751.17
Federal participation.
751.19
Documentation for Federal participation.
751.21
Relocation assistance.
751.23
Concurrent junkyard control and right-of-way projects.
751.25
Programming and authorization.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 136 and 315, 42 U.S.C. 4321-4347 and 4601-4655, 23 CFR 1.32, 49 CFR 1.48, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
40 FR 8551, Feb. 28, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 751.1
Purpose.
Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 136, this part prescribes Federal Highway Administration [FHWA] policies and procedures relating to the exercise of effective control by the States of junkyards in areas adjacent to the Interstate and Federal-aid primary systems. Nothing in this part shall be construed to prevent a State from establishing more stringent junkyard control requirements than provided herein.
[40 FR 12260, Mar. 18, 1975]
§ 751.3
Applicability.
The provisions of this part are applicable to all areas within 1,000 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way and visible from the main traveled way of all Federal-aid Primary and Interstate Systems regardless of whether Federal funds participated in the construction thereof, including toll sections of such highways. This part does not apply to the Urban System.
§ 751.5
Policy.
In carrying out the purposes of this part:
(a) Emphasis should be placed on encouraging recycling of scrap and junk where practicable, in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
);
(b) Every effort should be made to screen nonconforming junkyards which are to continue as ongoing businesses; and
(c) Nonconforming junkyards should be relocated only as a last resort.
§ 751.7
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Junkyard.
