Jan. 1, 2025
Title 7
Agriculture
Parts 210 to 299
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0--16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 7:

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Chapter II—Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
5

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1183
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1203
List of CFR Sections Affected
1213
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume, use title, part, and section number. Thus,
7 CFR 210.1
refers to title 7, part 210, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 7—
Agriculture
is composed of fifteen volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-26, 27-52, 53-209, 210-299, 300-399, 400-699, 700-899, 900-999, 1000-1199, 1200-1599, 1600-1759, 1760-1939, 1940-1949, 1950-1999, and part 2000 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
The Food and Nutrition Service current regulations in the volume containing parts 210-299, include the Child Nutrition Programs and the Food Stamp Program. The regulations of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation are found in the volume containing parts 400-699.
All marketing agreements and orders for fruits, vegetables and nuts appear in the one volume containing parts 900-999. All marketing agreements and orders for milk appear in the volume containing parts 1000-1199.
For this volume, Christine Colaninno was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
7 CFR Ch. II (1-1-25 Edition)
Food and Nutrition Service, USDA

# Title 7—Agriculture
(This book contains parts 210 to 299)

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Part
chapter ii
—Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
210

# Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)

# CHAPTER II—FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter II appear at 60 FR 19490, Apr. 19, 1995, and 63 FR 9727, Feb. 26, 1998.

# SUBCHAPTER A—CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
Part
Page
210
National School Lunch Program
7
215
Special Milk Program for Children
80
220
School Breakfast Program
100
225
Summer Food Service Program
129
226
Child and Adult Care Food Program
189
227
Nutrition Education and Training Program
297
235
State administrative expense funds
307
240
Cash in lieu of donated foods
320
245
Determining eligibility for free and reduced price meals and free milk in schools
326
246
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children
369
247
Commodity Supplemental Food Program
487
248
WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP)
512
249
Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP)
534

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES—FOOD DISTRIBUTION
250
Donation of foods for use in the United States, its territories and possessions and areas under its jurisdiction
562
251
The Emergency Food Assistance Program
606
252
National Commodity Processing Program
619
253
Administration of the Food Distribution Program for households on Indian reservations
628
254
Administration of the Food Distribution Program for Indian households in Oklahoma
659

# SUBCHAPTER C—SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE AND FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM
271
General information and definitions
662
272
Requirements for participating State agencies
681
273
Certification of eligible households
751
274
Issuance and use of program benefits
959
275
Performance reporting system
989
276
State agency liabilities and Federal sanctions
1028
277
Payments of certain administrative costs of State agencies
1036
278
Participation of retail food stores, wholesale food concerns and insured financial institutions
1069
279
Administrative and judicial review—food retailers and food wholesalers
1095
280
Emergency food assistance for victims of disasters
1099
281
Administration of SNAP on Indian reservations
1099
282
Demonstration, research, and evaluation projects
1105
283
Appeals of quality control (“QC”) claims
1106
284
Miscellaneous
1125
285
Provision of a nutrition assistance grant for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
1127
292
Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer Program
1130

# SUBCHAPTER D—GENERAL REGULATIONS
295
Availability of information and records to the public
1178
296-299
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
Pt. 210

# PART 210—NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
210.1
General purpose and scope.
210.2
Definitions.
210.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—Reimbursement Process for States and School Food Authorities
210.4
Cash and donated food assistance to States.
210.5
Payment process to States.
210.6
Use of Federal funds.
210.7
Reimbursement for school food authorities.
210.8
Claims for reimbursement.

# Subpart C—Requirements for School Food Authority Participation
210.9
Agreement with State agency.
210.10
Meal requirements for lunches and requirements for afterschool snacks.
210.11
Competitive food service and standards.
210.12
Student, parent, and community involvement.
210.13
Facilities management.
210.14
Resource management.
210.15
Reporting and recordkeeping.
210.16
Food service management companies.

# Subpart D—Requirements for State Agency Participation
210.17
Matching Federal funds.
210.18
Administrative reviews.
210.19
Additional responsibilities.
210.20
Reporting and recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—State Agency and School Food Authority Responsibilities
210.21
Procurement.
210.22
Audits.
210.23
Other responsibilities.

# Subpart F—Additional Provisions
210.24
Withholding payments.
210.25
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
210.26
Penalties and fines.
210.27
Educational prohibitions.
210.28
Pilot project exemptions.
210.29
Management evaluations.
210.30
School nutrition program professional standards.
210.31
Local school wellness policy.
210.32
Program information.
210.33
OMB control numbers.
210.34
Seamless Summer Option non-congregate meal service.
Appendix A to Part 210—Alternate Foods for Meals
Appendix B to Part 210 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 210—Child Nutrition Labeling Program

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1751-1760, 1779.

# Source:
53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 210.1
General purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose of the program.
Section 2 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751), states: “It is declared to be the policy of Congress, as a measure of national security, to safeguard the health and well-being of the Nation's children and to encourage the domestic consumption of nutritious agricultural commodities and other food, by assisting the States, through grants-in-aid and other means, in providing an adequate supply of food and other facilities for the establishment, maintenance, operation, and expansion of nonprofit school lunch programs.” Pursuant to this act, the Department provides States with general and special cash assistance and donations of foods acquired by the Department to be used to assist schools in serving nutritious lunches to children each school day. In furtherance of Program objectives, participating schools shall serve lunches that are nutritionally adequate, as set forth in these regulations, and shall to the extent practicable, ensure that participating children gain a full understanding of the relationship between proper eating and good health.
(b)
Scope of the regulations.
This part sets forth the requirements for participation in the National School Lunch and Commodity School Programs. It specifies Program responsibilities of State and local officials in the areas of program administration, preparation and service of nutritious lunches, the sale of competitive foods, payment of funds, use of program funds, program
monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 78 FR 39090, June 28, 2013]
§ 210.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Afterschool care program
means a program providing organized child care services to enrolled school-age children afterschool hours for the purpose of care and supervision of children. Those programs must be distinct from any extracurricular programs organized primarily for scholastic, cultural or athletic purposes.
Applicable credits
shall have the meaning established in 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
Attendance factor
means a percentage developed no less than once each school year which accounts for the difference between enrollment and attendance. The attendance factor may be developed by the school food authority, subject to State agency approval, or may be developed by the State agency. In the absence of a local or State attendance factor, the school food authority will use an attendance factor developed FNS. When taking the attendance factor into consideration, school food authorities will assume that all children eligible for free and reduced price lunches attend school at the same rate as the general school population.
Average Daily Participation
means the average number of children, by eligibility category, participating in the Program each operating day. These numbers are obtained by dividing:
(1) The total number of free lunches claimed during a reporting period by the number of operating days in the same period;
(2) The total number of reduced price lunches claimed during a reporting period by the number of operating days in the same period; and
(3) The total number of paid lunches claimed during a reporting period by the number of operating days in the same period.
Child
means:
(1) A student of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency, who is enrolled in an educational unit of high school grade or under as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of “School” in this section, including students with a disability who participate in a school program established for persons with disabilities;
(2) A person under 21 chronological years of age who is enrolled in an institution or center as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of “School” in this section; or
(3) For afterschool care programs, persons aged 18 and under at the start of the school year, and persons of any age with a disability who participate in a school program established for persons with disabilities.
Child with a disability
means any child who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of such individual, has a record of such an impairment, or has been regarded as having such an impairment.
Commodity School Program
means the Program under which participating schools operate a nonprofit lunch program in accordance with this part and receive donated food assistance in lieu of general cash assistance. Schools participating in the Commodity School Program will also receive special cash and donated food assistance in accordance with § 210.4(c).
Contractor
means a commercial enterprise, public or nonprofit private organization or individual that enters into a contract with a school food authority.
Cost reimbursable contract
means a contract that provides for payment of incurred costs to the extent prescribed
in the contract, with or without a fixed fee.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Distributing agency
means a State agency which enters into an agreement with the Department for the distribution to schools of donated foods pursuant to part 250 of this chapter.
Donated foods
means food commodities donated by the Department for use in nonprofit lunch programs.
Fiscal year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any year and ending with September 30 of the following year.
Fixed fee
means an agreed upon amount that is fixed at the inception of the contract. In a cost reimbursable contract, the fixed fee includes the contractor's direct and indirect administrative costs and profit allocable to the contract.
Fixed-price contract
means a contract that charges a fixed cost per meal, or a fixed cost for a certain time period. Fixed-price contracts may include an economic price adjustment tied to a standard index.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
FNSRO
means the appropriate Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
Food item
means a specific food offered within a food component.
Food service management company
means a commercial enterprise or a nonprofit organization which is or may be contracted with by the school food authority to manage any aspect of the school food service.
Free lunch
means a lunch served under the Program to a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter and for which neither the child nor any member of the household pays or is required to work.
Local educational agency
means a public board of education or other public or private nonprofit authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or for a combination of school districts or counties that is recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools. The term also includes any other public or private nonprofit institution or agency having administrative control and direction of a public or private nonprofit elementary school or secondary school, including residential child care institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, and educational service agencies and consortia of those agencies, as well as the State educational agency in a State or territory in which the State educational agency is the sole educational agency for all public or private nonprofit schools.
Lunch
means a meal service that meets the meal requirements in § 210.10 for lunches.
Meal component
means one of the food groups which comprise reimbursable meals. The meal components are: fruits, vegetables, grains, meats/meat alternates, and fluid milk.
National School Lunch Program
means the Program under which participating schools operate a nonprofit lunch program in accordance with this part. General and special cash assistance and donated food assistance are made available to schools in accordance with this part.
Net cash resources
means all monies, as determined in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system, that are available to or have accrued to a school food authority's nonprofit school food service at any given time, less cash payable. Such monies may include, but are not limited to, cash on hand, cash receivable, earnings on investments, cash on deposit and the value of stocks, bonds or other negotiable securities.
Nonprofit
means, when applied to schools or institutions eligible for the Program, exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Nonprofit school food service
means all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of schoolchildren, all of
the revenue from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such food services.
Nonprofit school food service account
means the restricted account in which all of the revenue from all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of school children is retained and used only for the operation or improvement of the nonprofit school food service. This account will include, as appropriate, non-Federal funds used to support paid lunches as provided in § 210.14(e), and proceeds from nonprogram foods as provided in § 210.14(f).
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
Paid lunch
means a lunch served to children who are either not certified for or elect not to receive the free or reduced price benefits offered under part 245 of this chapter. The Department subsidizes each paid lunch with both general cash assistance and donated foods. The prices for paid lunches in a school food authority must be determined in accordance with § 210.14(e).
Point of Service
means that point in the food service operation where a determination can accurately be made that a reimbursable free, reduced price, or paid lunch has been served to an eligible child.
Program
means the National School Lunch Program and the Commodity School Program.
Reduced price lunch
means a lunch served under the Program:
(1) To a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter;
(2) For which the price is less than the school food authority designated full price of the lunch and which does not exceed the maximum allowable reduced price specified under part 245 of this chapter; and
(3) For which neither the child nor any member of the household is required to work.
Reimbursement
means Federal cash assistance including advances paid or payable to participating schools for lunches meeting the requirements of § 210.10 and served to eligible children.
Revenue,
when applied to nonprofit school food service, means all monies received by or accruing to the nonprofit school food service in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system including, but not limited to, children's payments, earnings on investments, other local revenues, State revenues, and Federal cash reimbursements.
School
means:
(1) An educational unit of high school grade or under, recognized as part of the educational system in the State and operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings;
(2) Any public or nonprofit private classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in the aforementioned schools; or
(3) Any public or nonprofit private residential child care institution, or distinct part of such institution, which operates principally for the care of children, and, if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government, except for residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children, Job Corps centers funded by the Department of Labor, and private foster homes.
School food authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools; and has the legal authority to operate the Program therein or be otherwise approved by FNS to operate the Program.
School nutrition program directors
are those individuals directly responsible for the management of the day-to-day operations of school food service for all participating schools under the jurisdiction of the school food authority.
School nutrition program managers
are those individuals directly responsible for the management of the day-to-day operations of school food service for a participating school(s).
School nutrition program staff
are those individuals, without managerial responsibilities, involved in day-to-day operations of school food service for a participating school(s).
School week
means the period of time used to determine compliance with the meal requirements in § 210.10. The period will be a normal school week of
five consecutive days; however, to accommodate shortened weeks resulting from holidays and other scheduling needs, the period must be a minimum of three consecutive days and a maximum of seven consecutive days. Weeks in which school lunches are offered less than three times must be combined with either the previous or the coming week.
School year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning July 1 of any year and ending June 30 of the following year.
Seamless Summer Option
means the meal service alternative authorized by Section 13(a)(8) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(8), under which public or nonprofit school food authorities participating in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program offer meals at no cost to children during the traditional summer vacation periods and, for year-round schools, vacation periods longer than 10 school days.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
State
means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
State agency
means:
(1) The State educational agency;
(2) Any other agency of the State which has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program in schools, as specified in § 210.3(b) of this chapter; or
(3) The FNSRO, where the FNSRO administers the Program as specified in § 210.3(c) of this chapter.
State educational agency
means, as the State legislature may determine,
(1) The chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or
(2) A board of education controlling the State department of education.
State licensed healthcare professional
means an individual who is authorized to write medical prescriptions under State law. This may include, but is not limited to, a licensed physician, nurse practitioner, or physician's assistant, depending on State law.
Tofu
means a soybean-derived food, made by a process in which soybeans are soaked, ground, mixed with water, heated, filtered, coagulated, and formed into cakes. Basic ingredients are whole soybeans, one or more food-grade coagulants (typically a salt or an acid), and water. Tofu products must conform to FNS guidance to count toward the meats/meat alternates component.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Whole grain-rich
is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched.
Whole grains
means grains that consist of the intact, ground, cracked, or flaked grain seed whose principal anatomical components—the starchy endosperm, germ and bran—are present in the same relative proportions as they exist in the intact grain seed.
Yogurt
means commercially prepared coagulated milk products obtained by the fermentation of specific bacteria, that meet milk fat or milk solid requirements and to which flavoring foods or ingredients may be added. These products are covered by the Food and Drug Administration's Definition and Standard of Identity for yogurt, 21 CFR 131.200, and low-fat yogurt and non-fat yogurt covered as a standardized food under 21 CFR 130.10.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 210.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 210.3
Administration.
(a)
FNS.
FNS will act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program.
(b)
States.
Within the States, the responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools, as defined in § 210.2, shall be in the State educational agency. If the State educational agency is unable to administer the Program in public or private nonprofit residential child care institutions or nonprofit private schools, then Program administration for such schools may be assumed by FNSRO as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer such schools. Each State agency desiring to administer the Program shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part; parts 235 and 245 of this chapter; parts 15, 15a, and 15b of this title, and 2 CFR part 200; USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415; and FNS instructions.
(c)
FNSRO.
The FNSRO will administer the Program in nonprofit private schools or public or nonprofit private residential child care institutions if the State agency is prohibited by law from disbursing Federal funds paid to such schools. In addition, the FNSRO will continue to administer the Program in those States in which nonprofit private schools or public or nonprofit private residential child care institutions have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980, unless the administration of the Program in such schools is assumed by the State. The FNSRO will, in each State in which it administers the Program, assume all responsibilities of a State agency as set forth in this part and part 245 of this chapter as appropriate. References in this part to “State agency” include FNSRO, as applicable, when it is the agency administering the Program.
(d)
School food authorities.
The school food authority shall be responsible for the administration of the Program in schools. State agencies shall ensure that school food authorities administer the Program in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part; part 245 of this chapter; parts 15, 15a, and 15b, and 3016 or 3019, as applicable, of this title and 2 CFR part 200; USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and FNS instructions.
(e)
Authority to waive statute and regulations.
(1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.
(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.
(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.
(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:
(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,
(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.
(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 71 FR 39515, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66489, Sept. 28, 2016; 87 FR 57354, Sept. 19, 2022; 89 FR 32063, Apr. 25, 2024]

# Subpart B—Reimbursement Process for States and School Food Authorities
§ 210.4
Cash and donated food assistance to States.
(a)
General.
To the extent funds are available, FNS will make cash assistance available in accordance with the provisions of this section to each State agency for lunches and afterschool snacks served to children under the National School Lunch and Commodity School Programs. To the extent donated foods are available, FNS will provide donated food assistance to distributing agencies for each lunch served in accordance with the provisions of this part and part 250 of this chapter.
(b)
Assistance for the National School Lunch Program.
The Secretary will make cash and/or donated food assistance available to each State agency and distributing agency, as appropriate, administering the National School Lunch Program, as follows:
(1) Cash assistance will be made available to each State agency administering the National School Lunch Program as follows:
(i)
General:
Cash assistance payments are composed of a general cash assistance payment and a performance-based cash assistance payment, authorized under section 4 of the Act, and a special cash assistance payment, authorized under section 11 of the Act. General cash assistance is provided to each State agency for all lunches served to children in accordance with the provisions of the National School Lunch Program. Performance-based cash assistance is provided to each State agency for lunches served in accordance with § 210.7(d). Special cash assistance is provided to each State agency for lunches served under the National School Lunch Program to children determined eligible for free or reduced price lunches in accordance with part 245 of this chapter.
(ii)
Cash assistance for lunches.
The total general cash assistance paid to each State for any fiscal year shall not exceed the lesser of amounts reported to FNS as reimbursed to school food authorities in accordance with § 210.5(d)(3) or the total calculated by multiplying the number of lunches reported in accordance with § 210.5(d)(1) for each month of service during the fiscal year, by the applicable national average payment rate prescribed by FNS. The total performance-based cash assistance paid to each State for any fiscal year shall not exceed the lesser of amounts reported to FNS as reimbursed to school food authorities in accordance with § 210.5(d)(3) or the total calculated by multiplying the number of lunches reported in accordance with § 210.5(d)(1) for each month of service during the fiscal year, by 6 cents for school year 2012-2013, adjusted annually thereafter as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. The total special assistance paid to each State for any fiscal year shall not exceed the lesser of amounts reported to FNS as reimbursed to school food authorities in accordance with § 210.5(d)(3) or the total calculated by multiplying the number of free and reduced price lunches reported in accordance with § 210.5(d)(1) for each month of service during the fiscal year by the applicable national average payment rate prescribed by FNS.
(iii)
Annual adjustments.
In accordance with section 11 of the Act, FNS will prescribe annual adjustments to the per meal national average payment rate (general cash assistance), the performance-based cash assistance rate (performance-based cash assistance),
and the special assistance national average payment rates (special cash assistance) which are effective on July 1 of each year. These adjustments, which reflect changes in the food away from home series of the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers, are annually announced by Notice in July of each year in the
Federal Register.
(iv)
Maximum per meal rates.
FNS will also establish maximum per meal rates of reimbursement within which a State may vary reimbursement rates to school food authorities. These maximum rates of reimbursement are established at the same time and announced in the same Notice as the national average payment rates.
(2)
Donated food assistance.
For each school year, FNS will provide distributing agencies with donated foods for lunches served under the National School Lunch Program as provided under part 250 of this chapter. The per lunch value of donated food assistance is adjusted by the Secretary annually to reflect changes as required under section 6 of the Act. These adjustments, which reflect changes in the Price Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions, are effective on July 1 of each year and are announced by Notice in the
Federal Register
in July of each year.
(3)
Cash assistance for afterschool snacks.
For those eligible schools (as defined in § 210.10(o)(1)) operating afterschool care programs and electing to serve afterschool snacks to enrolled children, funds will be made available to each State agency, each school year in an amount no less than the sum of the products obtained by multiplying:
(i) The number of afterschool snacks served in the afterschool care program within the State to children from families that do not satisfy the income standards for free and reduced price school meals by 2.75 cents;
(ii) The number of afterschool snacks served in the afterschool care program within the State to children from families that satisfy the income standard for free school meals by 30 cents; and
(iii) The number of afterschool snacks served in the afterschool care program within the State to children from families that satisfy the income standard for reduced price school meals by 15 cents.
(4)
Annual adjustments for cash assistance for afterschool snacks.
The rates in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are the base rates established in August 1981 for the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP). FNS will prescribe annual adjustments to these rates in the same Notice as the National Average Payment Rates for lunches. These adjustments will ensure that the reimbursement rates for afterschool snacks served under this part are the same as those implemented for afterschool snacks in the CACFP.
(c)
Assistance for the Commodity School Program.
FNS will make special cash assistance available to each State agency for lunches served in commodity schools in the same manner as special cash assistance is provided in the National School Lunch Program. Payment of such amounts to State agencies is subject to the reporting requirements contained in § 210.5(d). FNS will provide donated food assistance in accordance with part 250 of this chapter. Of the total value of donated food assistance to which it is entitled, the school food authority may elect to receive cash payments of up to 5 cents per lunch served in its commodity school(s) for donated foods processing and handling expenses. Such expenses include any expenses incurred by or on behalf of a commodity school for processing or other aspects of the preparation, delivery, and storage of donated foods. The school food authority may have all or part of these cash payments retained by the State agency for use on its behalf for processing and handling expenses by the State agency or it may authorize the State agency to transfer to the distributing agency all or any part of these payments for use on its behalf for these expenses. Payment of such amounts to State agencies is subject to the reporting requirements contained in § 210.5(d). The total value of donated food assistance is calculated on a school year basis by adding:
(1) The applicable national average payment rate (general cash assistance) prescribed by the Secretary for the period of July 1 through June 30 multiplied by the total number of lunches
served during the school year under the Commodity School Program; and
(2) The national per lunch average value of donated foods prescribed by the Secretary for the period of July 1 through June 30 multiplied by the total number of lunches served during the school year under the Commodity School Program.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 42487, Aug. 10, 1993; 60 FR 31207, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26912, May 9, 2000; 77 FR 25034, Apr. 27, 2012; 89 FR 32063, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.5
Payment process to States.
(a)
Grant award.
FNS will specify the terms and conditions of the State agency's grant in a grant award document and will generally make payments available by means of a Letter of Credit issued in favor of the State agency. The State agency shall obtain funds for reimbursement to participating school food authorities through procedures established by FNS in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. State agencies shall limit requests for funds to such times and amounts as will permit prompt payment of claims or authorized advances. The State agency shall disburse funds received from such requests without delay for the purpose for which drawn. FNS may, at its option, reimburse a State agency by Treasury Check. FNS will pay by Treasury Check with funds available in settlement of a valid claim if payment for that claim cannot be made within the grant closeout period specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Cash-in-lieu of donated foods.
All Federal funds to be paid to any State in place of donated foods will be made available as provided in part 240 of this chapter.
(c)
Recovery of funds.
FNS will recover any Federal funds made available to the State agency under this part which are in excess of obligations reported at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with the reconciliation procedures specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Such recoveries shall be reflected by a related adjustment in the State agency's Letter of Credit.
(d)
Substantiation and reconciliation process.
Each State agency shall maintain Program records as necessary to support the reimbursement payments made to school food authorities under §§ 210.7 and 210.8 and the reports submitted to FNS under this paragraph. The State agency shall ensure such records are retained for a period of 3 years or as otherwise specified in § 210.23(c).
(1)
Monthly report.
Each State agency shall submit a final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) to FNS for each month. The final reports shall be limited to claims submitted in accordance with § 210.8 of this part. For the month of October, the final report shall include the total number of children approved for free lunches, the total number of children approved for reduced price lunches, and the total number of children enrolled in participating public schools, private schools, and residential child care institutions, respectively, as of the last day of operation in October. The final reports shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments to a State's report shall always be made regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary. FNS authorization is not required for downward adjustments. Any adjustments to a State's report shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS.
(2)
Quarterly report.
Each State agency administering the National School Lunch Program must submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports must be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter.
(3)
End of year reports.
(i) Each State agency must submit an annual report detailing the disbursement of performance-based cash assistance described in § 210.4(b)(1). The report must be submitted no later than 30 days after the
end of each fiscal year. The report must include the total number of school food authorities in the State and the names of certified school food authorities. If all school food authorities in the State have been certified, the State agency is no longer required to submit the report.
(ii) Each State agency must submit a final Financial Status Report (FNS-777) for each fiscal year. This final fiscal year grant closeout report must be postmarked or submitted to FNS within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year or part thereof that the State agency administered the Program. Obligations must be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. FNS will not be responsible for reimbursing Program obligations reported later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year in which they were incurred. Grant closeout procedures are to be carried out in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 12580, Mar. 28, 1989; 56 FR 32939, July 17, 1991; 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 77 FR 25034, Apr. 27, 2012; 79 FR 330, Jan. 3, 2014; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 66488, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57844, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 210.6
Use of Federal funds.
General.
State agencies shall use Federal funds made available under the Program to reimburse or make advance payments to school food authorities in connection with lunches and meal supplements served in accordance with the provisions of this part;
except that,
with the approval of FNS, any State agency may reserve an amount up to one percent of the funds earned in any fiscal year under this part for use in carrying out special developmental projects. Advance payments to school food authorities may be made at such times and in such amounts as are necessary to meet the current fiscal obligations. All Federal funds paid to any State in place of donated foods shall be used as provided in part 240 of this chapter.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 42487, Aug. 10, 1993]
§ 210.7
Reimbursement for school food authorities.
(a)
General.
Reimbursement payments to finance nonprofit school food service operations will be made only to school food authorities operating under a written agreement with the State agency. Subject to the provisions of § 210.8(c), such payments may be made for lunches and afterschool snacks served in accordance with provisions of this part and part 245 of this chapter in the calendar month preceding the calendar month in which the agreement is executed. These reimbursement payments include general cash assistance for all lunches served to children under the National School Lunch Program and special cash assistance payments for free or reduced-price lunches served to children determined eligible for such benefits under the National School Lunch and Commodity School Programs. Reimbursement payments will also be made for afterschool snacks served to eligible children in afterschool care programs in accordance with the rates established in § 210.4(b)(3). Approval will be in accordance with part 245.
(b)
Assignment of rates.
At the beginning of each school year, State agencies shall establish the per meal rates of reimbursement for school food authorities participating in the Program. These rates of reimbursement may be assigned at levels based on financial need;
except that,
the rates are not to exceed the maximum rates of reimbursement established by the Secretary under § 210.4(b) and are to permit reimbursement for the total number of lunches in the State from funds available under § 210.4. Within each school food authority, the State agency shall assign the same rate of reimbursement from general cash assistance funds for all lunches served to children under the Program. Assigned rates of reimbursement may be changed at any time by the State agency,
provided that
notice of any change is given to the school food authority. The total general and special cash assistance reimbursement paid to any school food authority for lunches served to children during the school year are not to exceed the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the total reported number of
lunches, by type, served to eligible children during the school year by the applicable maximum per lunch reimbursements prescribed for the school year for each type of lunch.
(c)
Reimbursement limitations.
To be entitled to reimbursement under this part, each school food authority must ensure that Claims for Reimbursement are limited to the number of free, reduced price, and paid lunches and afterschool snacks that are served to children eligible for free, reduced price, and paid lunches and afterschool snacks, respectively, for each day of operation.
(1)
Lunch count system.
To ensure that the Claim for Reimbursement accurately reflects the number of lunches and afterschool snacks served to eligible children, the school food authority must, at a minimum:
(i) Correctly approve each child's eligibility for free and reduced price lunches and afterschool snacks based on the requirements prescribed under part 245 of this chapter;
(ii) Maintain a system to issue benefits and to update the eligibility of children approved for free or reduced price lunches and afterschool snacks. The system must:
(A) Accurately reflect eligibility status as well as changes in eligibility made after the initial approval process due to verification findings, transfers, reported changes in income or household size, etc.; and
(B) Make the appropriate changes in eligibility after the initial approval process on a timely basis so that the mechanism the school food authority uses to identify currently eligible children provides a current and accurate representation of eligible children. Changes in eligibility which result in increased benefit levels must be made as soon as possible but no later than 3 operating days of the date the school food authority makes the final decision on a child's eligibility status. Changes in eligibility which result in decreased benefit levels must be made as soon as possible but no later than 10 operating days of the date the school food authority makes the final decision on the child's eligibility status;
(iii) Base Claims for Reimbursement on lunch counts, taken daily at the point of service, which correctly identify the number of free, reduced price and paid lunches served to eligible children;
(iv) Correctly record, consolidate and report those lunch and afterschool snack counts on the Claim for Reimbursement; and
(v) Ensure that Claims for Reimbursement do not request payment for any excess lunches produced, as prohibited in § 210.10(a)(2), or non-Program lunches (
i.e.,
a la carte or adult lunches) or for more than one afterschool snack per child per day.
(2)
Point of service alternatives.
(i) State agencies may authorize alternatives to the point of service lunch counts provided that such alternatives result in accurate, reliable counts of the number of free, reduced price and paid lunches served, respectively, for each serving day. State agencies are encouraged to issue guidance which clearly identifies acceptable point of service alternatives and instructions for proper implementation. School food authorities may select one of the State agency approved alternatives without prior approval.
(ii) In addition, on a case-by-case basis, State agencies may authorize school food authorities to use other alternatives to the point of service lunch count; provided that such alternatives result in an accurate and reliable lunch count system. Any request to use an alternative lunch counting method which has not been previously authorized under paragraph (2)(i) is to be submitted in writing to the State agency for approval. Such request shall provide detail sufficient for the State agency to assess whether the proposed alternative would provide an accurate and reliable count of the number of lunches, by type, served each day to eligible children. The details of each approved alternative shall be maintained on file at the State agency for review by FNS.
(d)
Performance-based cash assistance.
The State agency must provide performance-based cash assistance as authorized under § 210.4(b)(1) for lunches served in school food authorities certified by the State agency to be in compliance with meal pattern and nutrition requirements set forth in
§ 210.10 and, if the school food authority participates in the School Breakfast Program (part 220 of this chapter), § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable. State agencies must establish procedures to certify school food authorities for performance-based cash assistance in accordance with guidance established by FNS. Such procedures must ensure State agencies:
(1) Make certification procedures readily available to school food authorities and provide guidance necessary to facilitate the certification process.
(2) Require school food authorities to submit documentation to demonstrate compliance with meal pattern requirements set forth in § 210.10 and § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable. Such documentation must reflect meal service at or about the time of certification.
(3) State agencies must review certification documentation submitted by the school food authority to ensure compliance with meal pattern requirements set forth in § 210.10, or § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable. For certification purposes, State agencies should consider any school food authority compliant:
(i) If when evaluating daily and weekly range requirements for grains and meat/meat alternates, the certification documentation shows compliance with the daily and weekly minimums for these two components, regardless of whether the school food authority has exceeded the maximums for the same components.
(ii) If when evaluating the service of frozen fruit, the school food authority serves products that contain added sugar.
(4) Certification procedures must ensure that no performance-based cash assistance is provided to school food authorities for meals served prior to October 1, 2012.
(5) Within 60 calendar days of a certification submission or as otherwise authorized by FNS, review submitted materials and notify school food authorities of the certification determination, the date that performance-based cash assistance is effective, and consequences for non-compliance,
(6) Disburse performance-based cash assistance for all lunches served beginning with the start of certification provided that documentation reflects meal service in the calendar month the certification materials are submitted or, in the month preceding the calendar month of submission.
(e)
Reimbursements for afterschool snacks.
The State agency will reimburse the school food authority for afterschool snacks served in eligible schools (as defined in § 210.10(o)(1)) operating afterschool care programs under the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) in accordance with the rates established in § 210.4(b).
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 12581, Mar. 28, 1989; 56 FR 32939, July 17, 1991; 58 FR 42487, Aug. 10, 1993; 60 FR 31207, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26912, May 9, 2000; 77 FR 25034, Apr. 27, 2012; 79 FR 330, Jan. 3, 2014; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 88 FR 57844, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 32063, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.8
Claims for reimbursement.
(a)
Internal controls.
The school food authority shall establish internal controls which ensure the accuracy of meal counts prior to the submission of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. At a minimum, these internal controls shall include: an on-site review of the meal counting and claiming system employed by each school within the jurisdiction of the school food authority; comparisons of daily free, reduced price and paid meal counts against data which will assist in the identification of meal counts in excess of the number of free, reduced price and paid meals served each day to children eligible for such meals; and a system for following up on those meal counts which suggest the likelihood of meal counting problems.
(1)
On-site reviews.
Every school year, each school food authority with more than one school shall perform no less than one on-site review of the counting and claiming system and the readily observable general areas of review cited under § 210.18(h), as prescribed by FNS for each school under its jurisdiction. The on-site review shall take place prior to February 1 of each school year. Further, if the review discloses problems with a school's meal counting or claiming procedures or general review areas, the school food authority
shall: ensure that the school implements corrective action; and, within 45 days of the review, conducts a follow-up on-site review to determine that the corrective action resolved the problems. Each on-site review shall ensure that the school's claim is based on the counting system authorized by the State agency under § 210.7(c) of this part and that the counting system, as implemented, yields the actual number of reimbursable free, reduced price and paid meals, respectively, served for each day of operation.
(2)
School food authority claims review process.
Prior to the submission of a monthly Claim for Reimbursement, each school food authority shall review the lunch count data for each school under its jurisdiction to ensure the accuracy of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. The objective of this review is to ensure that monthly claims include only the number of free, reduced price and paid lunches served on any day of operation to children currently eligible for such lunches.
(i) Any school food authority that was found by its most recent administrative review conducted in accordance with § 210.18, to have no meal counting and claiming violations may:
(A) Develop internal control procedures that ensure accurate meal counts. The school food authority shall submit any internal controls developed in accordance with this paragraph to the State agency for approval and, in the absence of specific disapproval from the State agency, shall implement such internal controls. The State agency shall establish procedures to promptly notify school food authorities of any modifications needed to their proposed internal controls or of denial of unacceptable submissions. If the State agency disapproves the proposed internal controls of any school food authority, it reserves the right to require the school food authority to comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(B) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(ii) Any school food authority that was identified in the most recent administrative review conducted in accordance with § 210.18, or in any other oversight activity, as having meal counting and claiming violations shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3)
Edit checks.
(i) The following procedure shall be followed for school food authorities identified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, by other school food authorities at State agency option, or, at their own option, by school food authorities identified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section: the school food authority shall compare each school's daily counts of free, reduced price and paid lunches against the product of the number of children in that school currently eligible for free, reduced price and paid lunches, respectively, times an attendance factor.
(ii) School food authorities that are identified in administrative reviews conducted in accordance with § 210.18 as not having meal counting and claiming violations and that are correctly complying with the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section have the option of developing internal controls in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(4)
Follow-up activity.
The school food authority shall promptly follow-up through phone contact, on-site visits or other means when the internal controls used by schools in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section or the claims review process used by schools in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(3) of this section suggest the likelihood of lunch count problems. When problems or errors are identified, the lunch counts shall be corrected prior to submission of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. Improvements to the lunch count system shall also be made to ensure that the lunch counting system consistently results in lunch counts of the actual number of reimbursable free, reduced price and paid lunches served for each day of operation.
(5)
Recordkeeping.
School food authorities shall maintain on file, each month's Claim for Reimbursement and all data used in the claims review process, by school. Records shall be retained as specified in § 210.23(c) of this part. School food authorities shall make this information available to the Department and the State agency upon request.
(b)
Monthly claims.
To be entitled to reimbursement under this part, each school food authority shall submit to the State agency, a monthly Claim for Reimbursement, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1)
Submission timeframes.
A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked or submitted to the State agency not later than 60 days following the last day of the full month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not postmarked and/or submitted within 60 days shall not be paid with Program funds unless otherwise authorized by FNS.
(2)
State agency claims review process.
The State agency shall review each school food authority's Claim for Reimbursement, on a monthly basis, in an effort to ensure that monthly claims are limited to the number of free and reduced price lunches served, by type, to eligible children.
(i) The State agency shall, at a minimum, compare the number of free and reduced price lunches claimed to the number of children approved for free and reduced price lunches enrolled in the school food authority for the month of October times the days of operation times the attendance factor employed by the school food authority in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section or the internal controls used by schools in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. At its discretion, the State agency may conduct this comparison against data which reflects the number of children approved for free and reduced price lunches for a more current month(s) as collected pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) In lieu of conducting the claims review specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the State agency may conduct alternative analyses for those Claims for Reimbursement submitted by residential child care institutions. Such alternatives analyses shall meet the objective of ensuring that the monthly Claims for Reimbursement are limited to the numbers of free and reduced price lunches served, by type, to eligible children.
(3)
Follow-up activity.
The State agency shall promptly follow-up through phone contact, on-site visits, or other means when the claims review process suggests the likelihood of lunch count problems.
(4)
Corrective action.
The State agency shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement which includes more than the number of lunches served, by type, to eligible children. In taking corrective action, State agencies may make adjustments on claims filed within the 60-day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the claim month and are reflected in the final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for the claim month required under § 210.5(d) of this part. Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-10 for the claim month shall not be made unless authorized by FNS. Except that, upward adjustments for the current and prior fiscal years resulting from any review or audit may be made, at the discretion of the State agency. Downward adjustments in amounts claimed shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.
(c)
Content of claim.
The Claim for Reimbursement must include data in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the Report of School Program Operations required under § 210.5(d). Such data must include, at a minimum, the number of free, reduced price, and paid lunches and afterschool snacks served to eligible children. The claim must be signed by a school food authority official.
(1)
Consolidated claim.
The State agency may authorize a school food authority to submit a consolidated Claim for Reimbursement for all schools under its jurisdiction, provided that, the data on each school's operations required in this section are maintained on file at the local office of the school food authority and the claim separates consolidated data for commodity schools from data for other schools. Unless otherwise approved by FNS, the Claim for Reimbursement for any month must include only lunches and afterschool snacks served in that
month except if the first or last month of Program operations for any school year contains 10 operating days or less, such month may be combined with the Claim for Reimbursement for the appropriate adjacent month. However, Claims for Reimbursement may not combine operations occurring in two fiscal years. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, a school food authority will be able to use a common claim form with respect to claims for reimbursement for meals served under those programs.
(2)
October data.
For the month of October, the State agency must also obtain, either through the Claim for Reimbursement or other means, the total number of children approved for free lunches and afterschool snacks, the total number of children approved for reduced price lunches and afterschool snacks, and the total number of children enrolled in the school food authority as of the last day of operation in October. The school food authority must submit this data to the State agency no later than December 31 of each year. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. In addition, the State agency may require school food authorities to provide this data for a more current month if for use in the State agency claims review process.
(d)
Advance funds.
The State agency may advance funds available for the Program to a school food authority in an amount equal to the amount of reimbursement estimated to be needed for one month's operation. Following the receipt of claims, the State agency will make adjustments, as necessary, to ensure that the total amount of payments received by the school food authority for the fiscal year does not exceed an amount equal to the number of lunches and afterschool snacks by reimbursement type served to children times the respective payment rates assigned by the State in accordance with § 210.7(b). The State agency must recover advances of funds to any school food authority failing to comply with the 60-day claim submission requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 12581, Mar. 28, 1989; 56 FR 32940, July 17, 1991; 58 FR 42487, Aug. 10, 1993; 60 FR 31207, June 13, 1995; 64 FR 50740, Sept. 20, 1999; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32064, Apr. 25, 2024]

# Subpart C—Requirements for School Food Authority Participation
§ 210.9
Agreement with State agency.
(a)
Application.
An official of a school food authority shall make written application to the State agency for any school in which it desires to operate the Program. Applications shall provide the State agency with sufficient information to determine eligibility. The school food authority shall also submit for approval a Free and Reduced Price Policy Statement in accordance with part 245 of this chapter.
(b)
Agreement.
Each school food authority approved to participate in the program shall enter into a written agreement with the State agency that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the State agency to suspend or terminate the agreement in accordance with § 210.25. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, that State agency shall provide each school food authority with a single agreement with respect to the operation of those programs. The agreement shall contain a statement to the effect that the “School Food Authority and participating schools under its jurisdiction, shall comply with all provisions of 7 CFR parts 210 and 245.” This agreement shall provide that each school food authority shall, with respect to participating schools under its jurisdiction:
(1) Maintain a nonprofit school food service and observe the requirements for and limitations on the use of nonprofit school food service revenues set forth in § 210.14 and the limitations on any competitive school food service as set forth in § 210.11;
(2) Limit its net cash resources to an amount that does not exceed 3 months average expenditures for its nonprofit school food service or such other
amount as may be approved in accordance with § 210.19(a);
(3) Maintain a financial management system as prescribed under § 210.14(c);
(4) Comply with the requirements of the Department's regulations regarding financial management (2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415);
(5) Serve lunches, during the lunch period, which meet the minimum requirements prescribed in § 210.10;
(6) Price the lunch as a unit;
(7) Serve lunches free or at a reduced price to all children who are determined by the local educational agency to be eligible for such meals under 7 CFR part 245;
(8) Claim reimbursement at the assigned rates only for reimbursable free, reduced price and paid lunches served to eligible children in accordance with 7 CFR part 210. Agree that the school food authority official signing the claim shall be responsible for reviewing and analyzing meal counts to ensure accuracy as specified in § 210.8 governing claims for reimbursement. Acknowledge that failure to submit accurate claims will result in the recovery of an overclaim and may result in the withholding of payments, suspension or termination of the program as specified in § 210.25. Acknowledge that if failure to submit accurate claims reflects embezzlement, willful misapplication of funds, theft, or fraudulent activity, the penalties specified in § 210.26 shall apply;
(9) Count the number of free, reduced price and paid reimbursable meals served to eligible children at the point of service, or through another counting system if approved by the State agency;
(10) Submit Claims for Reimbursement in accordance with § 210.8;
(11) Comply with the requirements of the Department's regulations regarding nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, 15b);
(12) Make no discrimination against any child because of his or her eligibility for free or reduced price meals in accordance with the approved Free and Reduced Price Policy Statement;
(13) Enter into an agreement to receive donated foods as required by 7 CFR part 250;
(14) Maintain, in the storage, preparation and service of food, proper sanitation and health standards in conformance with all applicable State and local laws and regulations, and comply with the food safety requirements of § 210.13;
(15) Accept and use, in as large quantities as may be efficiently utilized in its nonprofit school food service, such foods as may be offered as a donation by the Department;
(16) Maintain necessary facilities for storing, preparing and serving food;
(17) Upon request, make all accounts and records pertaining to its school food service available to the State agency and to FNS, for audit or review, at a reasonable time and place. Such records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the date of the final Claim for Reimbursement for the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the 3 year period as long as required for resolution of the issues raised by the audit;
(18) Maintain files of currently approved and denied free and reduced price certification documentation.
(19) Maintain direct certification documentation obtained directly from the appropriate State or local agency, or other appropriate individual, as specified by FNS, indicating that:
(i) A child in the
Family,
as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter, is receiving benefits from
SNAP, FDPIR
or
TANF,
as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter; if one child is receiving such benefits, all children in that family are considered to be directly certified;
(ii) The child is a homeless child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(iii) The child is a runaway child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(iv) The child is a migrant child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(v) The child is a Head Start child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter; or
(vi) The child is a foster child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
(20) Retain eligibility documentation submitted by families for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to
which they pertain or as otherwise specified under paragraph (b)(17) of this section.
(21) No later than December 31 of each year, provide the State agency with a list of all schools under its jurisdiction in which 50 percent or more of enrolled children have been determined eligible for free or reduced price meals as of the last operating day the preceding October. The State agency may designate a month other than October for the collection of this information, in which case the list must be provided to the State agency within 60 calendar days following the end of the month designated by the State agency. In addition, each school food authority must provide, when available for the schools under its jurisdiction, and upon the request of a sponsoring organization of day care homes of the Child and Adult Care Food Program, information on the boundaries of the attendance areas for the schools identified as having 50 percent or more of enrolled children certified eligible for free or reduced price meals.
(c)
Afterschool care requirements.
Those school food authorities with eligible schools (as defined in § 210.10(o)(1)) that elect to serve afterschool snacks during afterschool care programs, must agree to:
(1) Serve afterschool snacks which meet the minimum requirements prescribed in § 210.10;
(2) Price the afterschool snack as a unit;
(3) Serve afterschool snacks free or at a reduced price to all children who are determined by the school food authority to be eligible for free or reduced price school meals under part 245 of this chapter;
(4) If charging for meals, the charge for a reduced price afterschool snack must not exceed 15 cents;
(5) Claim reimbursement at the assigned rates only for afterschool snacks served in accordance with the agreement;
(6) Claim reimbursement for no more than one afterschool snack per child per day;
(7) Review each afterschool care program two times a year; the first review must be made during the first four weeks that the school is in operation each school year, except that an afterschool care program operating year round must be reviewed during the first four weeks of its initial year of operation, once more during its first year of operation, and twice each school year thereafter; and
(8) Comply with all requirements of this part, except that, claims for reimbursement need not be based on “point of service” afterschool snack counts (as required by § 210.9(b)(9)).
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 210.9, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 210.10
Meal requirements for lunches and requirements for afterschool snacks.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
General nutrition requirements.
Schools must offer nutritious, well-balanced, and age-appropriate meals to all the children they serve to improve their diets and safeguard their health.
(i)
Requirements for lunch.
School lunches offered to children age 5 or older must meet, at a minimum, the meal requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Schools must follow a food-based menu planning approach and produce enough food to offer each child the quantities specified in the meal pattern established in paragraph (c) of this section for each age/grade group served in the school. In addition, school lunches must meet the dietary specifications in paragraph (f) of this section. Schools offering lunches to children ages 1 through 4 and infants must meet the meal pattern requirements in paragraphs (p) and (q) of this section, as applicable. Schools must make plain potable water available and accessible without restriction to children at no charge in the place(s) where lunches are served during the meal service.
(ii)
Requirements for afterschool snacks.
Schools offering afterschool snacks in afterschool care programs must meet the meal pattern requirements in paragraph (o) of this section. Schools must plan and produce enough food to offer each child the minimum quantities
under the meal pattern in paragraph (o) of this section.
(2)
Unit pricing.
Schools must price each meal as a unit. Schools need to consider participation trends in an effort to provide one reimbursable lunch and, if applicable, one reimbursable afterschool snack for each child every school day. If there are leftover meals, schools may offer them to the students but cannot get Federal reimbursement for them. Schools must identify, near or at the beginning of the serving line(s), the food items that constitute the unit-priced reimbursable school meal(s). The price of a reimbursable lunch does not change if the student does not take a food item or requests smaller portions.
(3)
Production and menu records.
Schools or school food authorities, as applicable, must keep production and menu records for the meals they produce. These records must show how the meals offered contribute to the required meal components and food quantities for each age/grade group every day. Schools or school food authorities must maintain records of the latest nutritional analysis of the school menus conducted by the State agency. Information on maintaining production and menu records may be found in FNS guidance.
(b)
Meal requirements for school lunches.
School lunches for children ages 5 and older must reflect food and nutrition requirements specified by the Secretary. Compliance with these requirements is measured as follows:
(1) On a daily basis:
(i) Meals offered to each age/grade group must include the meal components and food quantities specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(ii) The meal selected by each student must have the number of meal components required for a reimbursable meal and include at least one fruit or vegetable.
(2) Over a 5-day school week:
(i) Average calorie content of meals offered to each age/grade group must be within the minimum and maximum calorie levels specified in paragraph (f) of this section;
(ii) Average saturated fat content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must be less than 10 percent of total calories;
(iii) By July 1, 2027, average added sugars content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must be less than 10 percent of total calories; and
(iv) Average sodium content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must not exceed the maximum level specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(c)
Meal pattern for school lunches.
Schools must offer the meal components and quantities required in the lunch meal pattern established in the following table:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
) Introductory Text—National School Lunch Program Meal Pattern
Meal components
Amount of food
1
per week (minimum per day)
Grades K-5
Grades 6-8
Grades 9-12
Fruits (cups)
2
2
1/2
(
1/2
)
2
1/2
(
1/2
)
5 (1)
Vegetables (cups)
2
3
3/4
(
3/4
)
3
3/4
(
3/4
)
5 (1)
Dark Green Subgroup
3
1/2
1/2
1/2
Red/Orange Subgroup
3
3/4
3/4
1
1/4
Beans, Peas, and Lentils Subgroup
3
1/2
1/2
1/2
Starchy Subgroup
3
1/2
1/2
1/2
Other Vegetables Subgroup
3
4
1/2
1/2
3/4
Additional Vegetables from Any Subgroup to Reach Total
1
1
1
1/2
Grains (oz. eq.)
5
8-9 (1)
8-10 (1)
10-12 (2)
Meats/Meat Alternates (oz. eq.)
6
8-10 (1)
9-10 (1)
10-12 (2)
Fluid Milk (cups)
7
5 (1)
5 (1)
5 (1)
Dietary Specifications: Daily Amount Based on the Average for a 5-Day Week
8
Minimum-Maximum Calories (kcal)
550-650
600-700
750-850
Saturated Fat (% of total calories)
10
10
10
Added Sugars (% of total calories)
10
10
10
Sodium Limit: In place through June 30, 2027
≤1,110 mg
≤1,225 mg
≤1,280 mg
Sodium Limit: Must be implemented by July 1, 2027
≤935 mg
≤1,035 mg
≤1,080 mg
1
Food items included in each group and subgroup and amount equivalents.
2
Minimum creditable serving is
1/8
cup. One quarter-cup of dried fruit counts as
1/2
cup of fruit; 1 cup of leafy greens counts as
1/2
cup of vegetables. No more than half of the fruit or vegetable offerings may be in the form of juice. All juice must be 100 percent full-strength.
3
Larger amounts of these vegetables may be served.
4
This subgroup consists of “Other vegetables” as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(E) of this section. For the purposes of the NSLP, the “Other vegetables” requirement may be met with any additional amounts from the dark green, red/orange, and bean, peas, and lentils vegetable subgroups as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
5
Minimum creditable serving is 0.25 oz. eq. At least 80 percent of grains offered weekly (by ounce equivalents) must be whole grain-rich as defined in § 210.2 and the remaining grains items offered must be enriched.
6
Minimum creditable serving is 0.25 oz. eq.
7
Minimum creditable serving is 8 fluid ounces. All fluid milk must be fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 percent fat or less) and must meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.
8
By July 1, 2027, schools must meet the dietary specification for added sugars. Schools must meet the sodium limits by the dates specified in this chart. Discretionary sources of calories may be added to the meal pattern if within the dietary specifications.
(1)
Age/grade groups.
Schools must plan menus for students using the following age/grade groups: Grades K-5 (ages 5-10), grades 6-8 (ages 11-13), and grades 9-12 (ages 14-18). If an unusual grade configuration in a school prevents the use of these established age/grade groups, students in grades K-5 and grades 6-8 may be offered the same food quantities at lunch provided that the calorie and sodium standards for each age/grade group are met. No customization of the established age/grade groups is allowed.
(2)
Meal components.
Schools must offer students in each age/grade group the meal components specified in this paragraph (c).
(i)
Fruits component.
Schools must offer fruits daily as part of the lunch menu. Fruits that are fresh, frozen, or dried, or canned in light syrup, water or fruit juice may be offered to meet the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(i). All fruits are credited based on their volume as served, except that
1/4
cup of dried fruit counts as
1/2
cup of fruit. Only pasteurized, full-strength fruit juice may be offered, and may be credited to meet no more than one-half of the fruits component.
(ii)
Vegetables component.
Schools must offer vegetables daily as part of the lunch menu. Fresh, frozen, or canned vegetables and dry beans, peas, and lentils may be offered to meet this requirement. All vegetables are credited based on their volume as served, except that 1 cup of leafy greens counts as
1/2
cup of vegetables and tomato paste and puree are credited based on calculated volume of the whole food equivalency. Pasteurized, full-strength vegetable juice may be offered to meet no more than one-half of the vegetables component. Vegetable offerings at lunch over the course of the week must include the following vegetable subgroups, as defined in this section in the quantities specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section:
(A)
Dark green vegetables subgroup.
This subgroup includes vegetables such as bok choy, broccoli, collard greens, dark green leafy lettuce, kale, mesclun, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, spinach, turnip greens, and watercress;
(B)
Red/orange vegetables subgroup.
This subgroup includes vegetables such as acorn squash, butternut squash, carrots, pumpkin, tomatoes, tomato juice, and sweet potatoes;
(C)
Beans, peas, and lentils vegetable subgroup.
This subgroup includes vegetables such as black beans, black-eyed peas (mature, dry), garbanzo beans (chickpeas), kidney beans, lentils, navy beans pinto beans, soybeans, split peas, and white beans. Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a vegetable or as a meat alternate but not as both in the same dish. When offered toward the protein sources component, beans, peas, and lentils may count toward the weekly beans, peas, and lentils vegetable subgroup requirement, but may not count toward
the daily or weekly vegetable component requirement;
(D)
Starchy vegetables subgroup.
This subgroup includes vegetables such as black-eyed peas (not dry), corn, cassava, green bananas, green peas, green lima beans, plantains, taro, water chestnuts, and white potatoes; and
(E)
Other vegetables subgroup.
This subgroup includes all other fresh, frozen, and canned vegetables, cooked or raw, such as artichokes, asparagus, avocados, bean sprouts, beets, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, cucumbers, eggplant, green beans, green peppers, iceberg lettuce, mushrooms, okra, onions, parsnips, turnips, wax beans, and zucchini.
(iii)
Grains component.
Schools must offer grains daily as part of the lunch menu.
(A)
Whole grain-rich requirement.
Whole grain-rich is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched. At least 80 percent of grains offered at lunch weekly must, based on ounce equivalents, meet the whole grain-rich criteria as defined in § 210.2, and the remaining grain items offered must be enriched.
(B)
Breakfast cereals.
By July 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
(C)
Desserts.
Schools may count up to two ounce equivalents of grain-based desserts per week toward meeting the grains requirement at lunch. Information on crediting grain-based desserts may be found in FNS guidance.
(D)
Daily and weekly servings.
The grains component is based on minimum daily servings plus total servings over a 5-day school week. Schools serving lunch 6 or 7 days per week must increase the weekly grains quantity by approximately 20 percent (
1/5
) for each additional day. When schools operate less than 5 days per week, they may decrease the weekly quantity by approximately 20 percent (
1/5
) for each day less than 5.
(iv)
Meats/meat alternates component.
Schools must offer meats/meat alternates daily as part of the lunch meal pattern. The quantity of the meat/meat alternate must be the edible portion as served. This component must be served in a main dish or in a main dish and only one other food item. Schools without daily choices in this component should not serve any one meat/meat alternate or form of meat/meat alternate (for example, ground, diced, pieces) more than three times in the same week. If a portion size of this component does not meet the daily requirement for a particular age/grade group, schools may supplement it with another meat/meat alternate to meet the full requirement. Schools may adjust the daily quantities of this component provided that a minimum of one ounce is offered daily to students in grades K-8 and a minimum of two ounces is offered daily to students in grades 9-12, and the total weekly requirement is met over a 5-day period. Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
(A)
Enriched macaroni.
Enriched macaroni with fortified protein as defined in appendix A to this part may be used to meet part of the meats/meat alternates requirement when used as specified in appendix A to this part. An enriched macaroni product with fortified protein as defined in appendix A to this part may be used to meet part of the meats/meat alternates component or the grains component but may not meet both food components in the same lunch.
(B)
Nuts and seeds.
Nuts and seeds and their butters are allowed as a meat alternate. Acorns, chestnuts, and coconuts do not credit as meat alternates because of their low protein and iron content. Nut and seed meals or flours may credit only if they meet the requirements for Alternate Protein Products established in appendix A to this part.
(C)
Yogurt.
Yogurt may be offered to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component. Yogurt may be plain or flavored, unsweetened or sweetened. By July 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Noncommercial and/or non-standardized yogurt products, such as frozen yogurt, drinkable yogurt products, homemade yogurt, yogurt flavored products, yogurt
bars, yogurt covered fruits and/or nuts or similar products are not creditable. Four ounces (weight) or
1/2
cup (volume) of yogurt is one ounce equivalent of meats/meat alternates.
(D)
Tofu and soy products.
Commercial tofu and soy products may be offered to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component. Noncommercial and/or non-standardized tofu and soy products are not creditable.
(E)
Beans, peas, and lentils.
Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be offered to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component. Beans, peas, and lentils are identified in this section and include foods such as black beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, kidney beans, mature lima beans, navy beans, pinto beans, and split peas. Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a vegetable or as a meat alternate but not as both in the same dish. When offered as a meat alternate, beans, peas, and lentils may count toward the weekly beans, peas, and lentils vegetable subgroup requirement, but may not count toward the daily or weekly vegetable component requirements.
(F)
Other meat alternates.
Other meat alternates, such as cheese and eggs, may be used to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component.
(v)
Fluid milk component.
Fluid milk must be offered daily in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Grain substitutions.
(i) Schools in American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands may serve any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, to meet the grains component.
(ii) School food authorities and schools that are tribally operated, operated by the Bureau of Indian Education, and that serve primarily American Indian or Alaska Native children, may serve any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, to meet the grains component.
(4)
Adjustments to school menus.
Schools must adjust future menu cycles to reflect production and how often food items are offered. Schools may need to change the foods offerings given students' selections and may need to modify recipes and other specifications to make sure that meal requirements are met.
(5)
Standardized recipes.
All schools must develop and follow standardized recipes. A standardized recipe is a recipe that was tested to provide an established yield and quantity using the same ingredients for both measurement and preparation methods. Standardized recipes developed by USDA/FNS are in the Child Nutrition Database. If a school has its own recipes, they may seek assistance from the State agency or school food authority to standardize the recipes. Schools must add any local recipes to their local databases. Additional information may be found in FNS guidance.
(6)
Processed foods.
The Child Nutrition Database includes a number of processed foods. Schools may use purchased processed foods that are not in the Child Nutrition Database. Schools or the State agency must add any locally purchased processed foods to their local database. The State agencies must obtain the levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium in the processed foods. Additional information may be found in FNS guidance.
(7)
Traditional Indigenous foods.
Traditional Indigenous foods may credit toward the required meal components. Information on food crediting may be found in FNS guidance. Schools are encouraged to serve traditional Indigenous foods as part of their lunch and afterschool snack service. Per the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2014, as amended (25 U.S.C. 1685(b)(5)) traditional foods means food that has traditionally been prepared and consumed by an American Indian tribe, including wild game meat; fish; seafood; marine mammals; plants; and berries.
(d)
Fluid milk requirements
—(1)
Types of fluid milk.
(i) Schools must offer students a variety (at least two different options) of fluid milk at lunch daily. All milk must be fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 percent fat or less). Milk with higher fat content is not creditable. Low-fat or fat-free lactose-free and reduced-lactose fluid milk may also be offered.
(ii) All fluid milk served in the Program must be pasteurized fluid milk which meets State and local standards for such milk. All fluid milk must have vitamins A and D at levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration and must be consistent with State and local standards for such milk.
(iii) Milk varieties may be unflavored or flavored, provided that unflavored milk is offered at each meal service. By July 1, 2025, flavored milk must contain no more than 10 grams of added sugars per 8 fluid ounces, or for flavored milk sold as competitive food for middle and high schools, 15 grams of added sugars per 12 fluid ounces.
(2)
Fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons.
School food authorities may offer fluid milk substitutes to students with dietary needs that are not disabilities. For disability-related meal modifications, see paragraph (m) of this section.
(i) Prior to providing a fluid milk substitute for a non-disability reason, a school food authority must obtain a written request from the student's parent or guardian, a State licensed healthcare professional, or a registered dietitian that identifies the reason for the substitute. A school food authority choosing to offer fluid milk substitutes for a non-disability reason is not required to offer the specific fluid milk substitutes requested but may offer the fluid milk substitutes of its choice, provided the fluid milk substitutes offered meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section. A school food authority must inform the State agency if any schools choose to offer fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons.
(ii) If a school food authority chooses to offer one or more fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons, the fluid milk substitutes must provide, at a minimum, the nutrients listed in the following table. Fluid milk substitutes must be fortified in accordance with fortification guidelines issued by the Food and Drug Administration.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
d
)(2)(
ii
)—Nutrient Requirements for Fluid Milk Substitutes
Nutrient
Per cup
(8 fl. oz.)
Calcium
276 mg.
Protein
8 g.
Vitamin A
150 mcg. retinol activity equivalents (RAE).
Vitamin D
2.5 mcg.
Magnesium
24 mg.
Phosphorus
222 mg.
Potassium
349 mg.
Riboflavin
0.44 mg.
Vitamin B-12
1.1 mcg.
(iii) Expenses incurred when providing fluid milk substitutes that exceed program reimbursements must be paid by the school food authority; costs may be paid from the nonprofit school food service account.
(iv) The fluid milk substitute approval must remain in effect until the student's parent or guardian, the State licensed healthcare professional, or the registered dietitian revokes the request in writing, or until the school food authority changes its fluid milk substitute policy.
(3)
Inadequate fluid milk supply.
If a school food authority cannot get a supply of fluid milk, it can still participate in the Program under the following conditions:
(i) If emergency conditions temporarily prevent a school food authority that normally has a supply of fluid milk from obtaining delivery of such milk, the State agency may allow the school food authority to serve meals during the emergency period with an alternate form of fluid milk or without fluid milk.
(ii) If a school food authority is unable to obtain a supply of any type of fluid milk on a continuing basis, the State agency may approve the service of meals without fluid milk if the school food authority uses an equivalent amount of canned milk or dry
milk in the preparation of the meals. In Alaska, American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, if a sufficient supply of fluid milk cannot be obtained, “fluid milk” includes reconstituted or recombined fluid milk, or as otherwise allowed by FNS through a written exception.
(4)
Restrictions on the sale of fluid milk.
A school food authority participating in the Program, or a person approved by a school food authority participating in the Program, must not directly or indirectly restrict the sale or marketing of fluid milk (as identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) at any time or in any place on school premises or at any school-sponsored event.
(e)
Offer versus serve for grades K through 12.
School lunches must offer daily the five meal components specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section. Under offer versus serve, students must be allowed to decline two components at lunch,
except that
the students must select at least 1/2 cup of either the fruit or vegetable component. Senior high schools (as defined by the State educational agency) must participate in offer versus serve. Schools below the senior high level may participate in offer versus serve at the discretion of the school food authority.
(f)
Dietary specifications
—(1)
Calories.
School lunches offered to each age/grade group must meet, on average over the school week, the minimum and maximum calorie levels specified in the following table:
Table 3 to Paragraph (
f
)(1)—National School Lunch Program Calorie Ranges
Grades K-5
Grades 6-8
Grades 9-12
Average Daily Minimum-Maximum Calories (kcal)
1
550-650
600-700
750-850
1
The average daily calories must fall within the minimum and maximum levels. Discretionary sources of calories may be added to the meal pattern if within the dietary specifications.
(2)
Saturated fat.
School lunches offered to all age/grade groups must, on average over the school week, provide less than 10 percent of total calories from saturated fat.
(3)
Added sugars.
By July 1, 2027, school lunches offered to all age/grade groups must, on average over the school week, provide less than 10 percent of total calories from added sugars.
(4)
Sodium.
School lunches offered to each age/grade group must meet, on average over the school week, the sodium limits specified in the following table within the established deadlines:
Table 4 to Paragraph (
f
)(4)—National School Lunch Program Sodium Limits
Age/grade group
Sodium limit: in place through June 30, 2027
(mg)
Sodium limit: must be implemented by July 1, 2027
(mg)
Grades K-5
≤1,110
≤935
Grades 6-8
≤1,225
≤1,035
Grades 9-12
≤1,280
≤1,080
(g)
Compliance assistance.
The State agency and school food authority must provide technical assistance and training to assist schools in planning lunches that meet the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section; the dietary specifications established in paragraph (f) of this section; and the meal pattern requirements in paragraphs (o) through (q) of this section, as applicable. Compliance assistance may be offered during trainings, onsite visits, and/or administrative reviews.
(h)
Monitoring dietary specifications.
When required by the Administrative Review process set forth in § 210.18, the State agency must conduct a weighted nutrient analysis to evaluate the average levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium of the lunches offered to students in grades K-12 during one week of the review period. The nutrient analysis must be conducted in accordance with the procedures established in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. If the results of the nutrient analysis indicate that school lunches do not meet the specifications for calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium specified in paragraph (f) of this section, the State agency or
school food authority must provide technical assistance and require the reviewed school to take corrective action to meet the requirements.
(i)
Nutrient analyses of school meals
—(1)
Conducting the nutrient analysis.
Any nutrient analysis, whether conducted by the State agency under § 210.18 or by the school food authority, must be performed in accordance with the procedures established in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. The purpose of the nutrient analysis is to determine the average levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium in the meals offered to each age grade group over a school week. The weighted nutrient analysis must be performed as required by FNS guidance.
(2)
Software elements
—(i)
The Child Nutrition Database.
The nutrient analysis is based on the USDA Child Nutrition Database. This database is part of the software used to do a nutrient analysis. Software companies or others developing systems for schools may contact FNS for more information about the database.
(ii)
Software evaluation.
FNS or an FNS designee evaluates any nutrient analysis software before it may be used in schools. FNS or its designee determines if the software, as submitted, meets the minimum requirements. The approval of software does not mean that FNS or USDA endorses it. The software must be able to perform a weighted average analysis after the basic data is entered. The combined analysis of the lunch and breakfast programs is not allowed.
(3)
Nutrient analysis procedures
—(i)
Weighted averages.
The nutrient analysis must include all foods offered as part of the reimbursable meals during one week within the review period. Foods items are included based on the portion sizes and serving amounts. They are also weighted based on their proportionate contribution to the meals offered. This means that food items offered more frequently are weighted more heavily than those not offered as frequently. The weighted nutrient analysis must be performed as required by FNS guidance.
(ii)
Analyzed nutrients.
The analysis determines the average levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium in the meals offered over a school week. It includes all food items offered by the reviewed school over a one-week period.
(4)
Comparing the results of the nutrient analysis.
Once the procedures in paragraph (i)(3) of this section are completed, State agencies must compare the results of the analysis to the calorie, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium levels established in § 210.10 or § 220.8 of this chapter, as appropriate, for each age/grade group to evaluate the school's compliance with the dietary specifications.
(j)
Responsibility for monitoring meal requirements.
Compliance with the meal requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, including the dietary specifications, and paragraphs (o) through (q) of this section, as applicable, will be monitored by the State agency through administrative reviews authorized in § 210.18.
(k)
Menu choices at lunch
—(1)
Availability of choices.
Schools may offer children a selection of nutritious foods within a reimbursable lunch to encourage the consumption of a variety of foods. Children who are eligible for free or reduced price lunches must be allowed to take any reimbursable lunch or any choices offered as part of a reimbursable lunch. Schools may establish different unit prices for each reimbursable lunch offered provided that the benefits made available to children eligible for free or reduced price lunches are not affected.
(2)
Opportunity to select.
Schools that choose to offer a variety of reimbursable lunches, or provide multiple serving lines, must make all required meal components available to all students, on every lunch line, in at least the minimum required amounts.
(l)
Requirements for lunch periods
—(1)
Timing.
Schools must offer lunches meeting the requirements of this section during the period the school has designated as the lunch period. Schools must offer lunches between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Schools may request an exemption from these times from the State agency. With State agency approval, schools may serve lunches to children under age 5 over two service periods. Schools may divide quantities and food
items offered each time any way they wish.
(2)
Adequate lunch periods.
FNS encourages schools to provide sufficient lunch periods that are long enough to give all students adequate time to be served and to eat their lunches.
(m)
Modifications and variations in reimbursable meals and afterschool snacks
—(1)
Modifications for disability reasons.
School food authorities must make meal modifications, including substitutions in lunches and afterschool snacks, for children with a disability and whose disability restricts their diet. The modification requested must be related to the disability or limitations caused by the disability and must be offered at no additional cost to the child or household.
(i) In order to receive Federal reimbursement when a modified meal does not meet the meal pattern requirements specified in this section, the school food authority must obtain from the household a written medical statement signed by a State licensed healthcare professional. By July 1, 2025, school food authorities must also accept a medical statement signed by a registered dietitian. The medical statement must provide sufficient information about the child's dietary restrictions, such as foods to be omitted and recommended alternatives, if appropriate. Modified meals that meet the meal pattern requirements in this section are reimbursable with or without a medical statement.
(ii) School food authorities must ensure that parents, guardians, and children have notice of the procedure for requesting meal modifications for disabilities and the process for procedural safeguards related to meal modifications for disabilities. See §§ 15b.6(b) and 15b.25 of this title.
(iii) Expenses incurred when making meal modifications that exceed program reimbursement rates must be paid by the school food authority; costs may be paid from the nonprofit food service account.
(2)
Variations for non-disability reasons.
School food authorities should consider children's dietary preferences when planning and preparing meals and afterschool snacks. Any variations must be consistent with the meal pattern requirements specified under this section. Expenses incurred from meal pattern variations that exceed program reimbursement rates must be paid by the school food authority; costs may be paid from the nonprofit food service account.
(3)
Exceptions for natural disasters.
If there is a natural disaster or other catastrophe, FNS may temporarily allow school food authorities to serve meals for reimbursement that do not meet the requirements in this section.
(n)
Nutrition disclosure.
To the extent that school food authorities identify foods in a menu, or on the serving line or through other communications with program participants, school food authorities must identify products or dishes containing more than 30 parts fully hydrated alternate protein products (as specified in appendix A of this part) to less than 70 parts beef, pork, poultry or seafood on an uncooked basis, in a manner which does not characterize the product or dish solely as beef, pork, poultry or seafood. Additionally, FNS encourages schools to inform the students, parents, and the public about efforts they are making to meet the meal requirements for school lunches.
(o)
Afterschool snacks.
Eligible schools operating afterschool care programs may be reimbursed for one afterschool snack served to a child (as defined in § 210.2) per day.
(1)
Eligible schools
means schools that:
(i) Operate the National School Lunch Program; and
(ii) Sponsor afterschool care programs as defined in § 210.2.
(2)
Afterschool snack requirements for K-12 children
—(i)
Afterschool snacks served to K through 12 children.
Schools serving afterschool snacks to K-12 children must serve the meal components and quantities required in the snack meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20 of this chapter. In addition, schools serving afterschool snacks to K-12 children must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3) and (4), (d)(2) through (4), (g), and (m) of this section, as applicable, and § 226.20(d) of this chapter.
(ii)
Afterschool snack meal pattern table for K through 12 children.
Through June
30, 2025, afterschool snacks must either follow the requirements outlined in the following table or must contain two different components from the following four: fluid milk, meats/meat alternates, vegetable or fruit, and/or grains. By July 1, 2025, the minimum amounts of meal components to be served at afterschool snack are as follows:
Table 5 to Paragraph (
o
)(2)(
ii
)—Afterschool Snack Meal Pattern for K-12 Children
[Ages 6-18]
[Select two of the five components for a reimbursable snack]
Meal components
1
Minimum quantities
2
Fluid milk
3
8 fluid ounces.
Meats/meat alternates
4
1 ounce equivalent.
Vegetables
5
3/4
cup.
Fruits
5
3/4
cup.
Grains
6
1 ounce equivalent.
1
Must serve two of the five components for a reimbursable afterschool snack. Only one of the two components may be a beverage.
2
May need to serve larger portions to children ages 13 through 18 to meet their nutritional needs.
3
Must be fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 percent fat or less). Milk may be unflavored or flavored.
4
Alternate protein products must meet the requirements in appendix A to part 226 of this chapter. Yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
5
Juice must be pasteurized, full-strength juice. No more than half of the weekly fruit or vegetable offerings may be in the form of juice.
6
At least 80 percent of grains offered weekly (by ounce equivalents) must be whole grain-rich, as defined in § 210.2, and the remaining grains items offered must be enriched. Grain-based desserts may not be used to meet the grains requirement. Breakfast cereal must have no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
(3)
Afterschool snack requirements for preschoolers
—(i)
Afterschool snacks served to preschoolers.
Schools serving afterschool snacks to preschoolers must serve the food components and quantities required in the snack meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20 of this chapter. In addition, schools serving afterschool snacks to preschoolers must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3) and (4), (d)(2) through (4), (g), and (m) of this section, as applicable, and § 226.20(d) of this chapter.
(ii)
Preschooler afterschool snack meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of food components to be served at afterschool snack are as follows:
Table 5 to Paragraph (
o
)(3)(
ii
)—Afterschool Snack Meal Pattern for Preschoolers
[Select two of the five components for a reimbursable snack]
Meal components
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Fluid milk
2
4 fluid ounces
4 fluid ounces.
Meats/meat alternates
3
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent.
Vegetables
4
1/2
cup
1/2
cup.
Fruits
4
1/2
cup
1/2
cup.
Grains
5
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent.
1
Must serve two of the five components for a reimbursable afterschool snack. Only one of the two components may be a beverage.
2
Must be unflavored whole milk for children age one. Must be unflavored low-fat (1 percent) or unflavored fat-free (skim) milk for children two through five years old.
3
Alternate protein products must meet the requirements in appendix A to part 226 of this chapter. Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Pasteurized full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal, including snack, per day.
5
At least one serving per day, across all eating occasions, must be whole grain-rich. Grain-based desserts do not count toward meeting the grains requirement. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
(4)
Afterschool snack requirements for infants
—(i)
Afterschool snacks served to infants.
Schools serving afterschool snacks to infants ages birth through 11 months must serve the meal components and quantities required in the snack meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20 of this chapter. In addition, schools serving afterschool snacks to infants must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3) and (4), (g), and (m) of this section, as applicable, and § 226.20(d) of this chapter.
(ii)
Infant afterschool snack meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at snack are as follows:
Table 6 to Paragraph (
o
)(4)(ii)—Infant Afterschool Snack Meal Pattern
Birth through 5 months
6 through 11 months
4-6 fluid ounces of breast milk
1
or formula
2
2-4 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula;
2
and
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent bread;
3 4
or
0-
1/4
ounce equivalent crackers;
3 4
or
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal;
2 4
or
0-
1/4
ounce equivalent ready-to-eat breakfast cereal;
3 4 5 6
and
0-2 tablespoons vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both.
6 7
1
Breast milk or formula, or portions of both, must be served; however, it is recommended that breast milk be served from birth through 11 months. For some breastfed infants who regularly consume less than the minimum amount of breast milk per feeding, a serving of less than the minimum amount of breast milk may be offered, with additional breast milk offered at a later time if the infant will consume more.
2
Infant formula and dry infant cereal must be iron-fortified.
3
A serving of grains must be whole grain-rich, enriched meal, enriched flour, bran, or germ.
4
Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
5
Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
6
A serving of this component is required when the infant is developmentally ready to accept it.
7
Fruit and vegetable juices must not be served.
(5)
Monitoring afterschool snacks.
Compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (o)(5) is monitored by the State agency as part of the Administrative Review conducted under § 210.18. If snacks offered do not meet the requirements of this paragraph, the State agency or school food authority must provide technical assistance and require corrective action and when applicable, must take fiscal action, as authorized in §§ 210.18(l) and 210.19(c).
(p)
Lunch requirements for preschoolers
—(1)
Lunches served to preschoolers.
Schools serving lunches to preschoolers under the National School Lunch Program must serve the meal components and quantities required in the lunch meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20(a), (c)(2), and (d) of this chapter. In addition, schools serving lunches to this age group must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3) and (4), (d)(2) through (4), (g), and (k) through (m) of this section.
(2)
Preschooler lunch meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at lunch are as follows:
Table 7 to Paragraph (
p
)(2)—Preschool Lunch Meal Pattern
[Select the appropriate components for a reimbursable meal]
Meal components and food items
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Fluid milk
4 fluid ounces
2
6 fluid ounces
3
.
Meats/meat alternates
4
1 ounce equivalent
1
1/2
ounce equivalents.
Vegetables
5
1/8
cup
1/4
cup.
Fruits
5
1/8
cup
1/4
cup.
Grains
6
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent.
1
Must serve all five components for a reimbursable meal.
2
Must serve unflavored whole milk to children age 1.
3
Must serve unflavored milk to children 2 through 5 years old. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
4
Alternate protein products must meet the requirements in appendix A to part 226 of this chapter. Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
5
Juice must be pasteurized. Full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal or snack, per day. Vegetables may be offered to meet the entire fruits requirement. When two vegetables are served at lunch or supper, two different kinds of vegetables must be served.
6
Must serve at least one whole grain-rich serving, across all eating occasions, per day. Grain-based desserts may not be offered to meet the grains requirement. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereal must have no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
(q)
Lunch requirements for infants
—(1)
Lunches served to infants.
Schools serving lunches to infants ages birth through 11 months under the National School Lunch Program must serve the meal components and quantities required in the lunch meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20(a), (b), and (d) of this chapter. In addition, schools serving lunches to infants must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3) and (4), (g), (l), and (m) of this section.
(2)
Infant lunch meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at lunch are as follows:
Table 8 to Paragraph (
q
)(2)—Infant Lunch Meal Pattern
Birth through 5 months
6 through 11 months
4-6 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula
2
6-8 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula;
2
and
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal;
2 3
or
0-4 tablespoons meat, fish, poultry, whole egg, cooked dry beans, peas, or lentils; or
0-2 ounces of cheese; or
0-4 ounces (volume) of cottage cheese; or
0-4 ounces or
1/2
cup of yogurt;
4
or a combination of the above;
5
and
0-2 tablespoons vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both.
5 6
1
Breast milk or formula, or portions of both, must be served; however, it is recommended that breast milk be served from birth through 11 months. For some breastfed infants who regularly consume less than the minimum amount of breast milk per feeding, a serving of less than the minimum amount of breast milk may be offered, with additional breast milk offered at a later time if the infant will consume more.
2
Infant formula and dry infant cereal must be iron-fortified.
3
Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce).
5
A serving of this component is required when the infant is developmentally ready to accept it.
6
Fruit and vegetable juices must not be served.
(r)
Severability.
If any provision of this section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstances, it shall be severable from this section and not affect the remainder thereof. In the event of such holding of invalidity or unenforceability of a provision, the meal pattern requirement covered by that provision reverts to the version that immediately preceded the invalidated provision.
[77 FR 4143, Jan. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 13448, Feb. 28, 2013; 78 FR 39090, June 28, 2013; 81 FR 24372, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 75671, Nov. 1, 2016; 82 FR 56713, Nov. 30, 2017; 83 FR 63789, Dec. 12, 2018; 84 FR 50289, Sept. 25, 2019; 85 FR 7853, Feb. 12, 2020; 85 FR 74847, Nov. 24, 2020; 86 FR 57544, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 4126, Jan. 27, 2022; 87 FR 7005, Feb. 7, 2022; 87 FR 47331, Aug. 3, 2022; 87 FR 52329, Aug. 25, 2022; 89 FR 32065, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.11
Competitive food service and standards.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1)
Combination foods
means products that contain two or more components representing two or more of the recommended food groups: fruit, vegetable, dairy, protein or grains.
(2)
Competitive food
means all food and beverages other than meals reimbursed under programs authorized by the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 available for sale to students on the
School campus
during the
School day.
(3)
Entrée item
means an item that is intended as the main dish in a reimbursable meal and is either:
(i) A combination food of a meat/meat alternate and a grain;
(ii) A combination food of a vegetable or fruit and a meat/meat alternate;
(iii) A meat/meat alternate alone with the exception of yogurt, low-fat or reduced fat cheese, nuts, seeds and nut or seed butters, and meat snacks (such as dried beef jerky); or
(iv) A grain only entrée that is served as the main dish in a school breakfast.
(4)
School campus
means, for the purpose of competitive food standards implementation, all areas of the property under the jurisdiction of the school that are accessible to students during the school day.
(5)
School day
means, for the purpose of competitive food standards implementation, the period from the midnight before, to 30 minutes after the end of the official school day.
(6)
Paired exempt foods
mean food items that have been designated as exempt from one or more of the nutrient requirements individually which are packaged together without any additional ingredients. Such “paired exempt foods” retain their individually designated exemption for total fat, saturated fat, and/or sugar when packaged together and sold but are required to meet the designated calorie and sodium standards specified in §§ 210.11(i) and (j) at all times.
(7)
Bean dip
means, for the purpose of competitive food standards, a spread made from ground pulses (beans, peas, and/or lentils), along with one or more of the following optional ingredients:
(i) Ground nut/seed butter (such as tahini [ground sesame] or peanut butter).
(ii) Vegetable oil (such as olive oil, canola oil, soybean oil).
(iii) Seasoning (such as salt, citric acid).
(iv) Vegetables and juice for flavor (such as olives, roasted pepper, garlic, lemon juice).
(v) For manufactured bean dip, contains ingredients necessary as preservatives and/or to maintain freshness.
(b)
General requirements for competitive food.
(1)
State and local educational agency policies.
State agencies and/or local educational agencies must establish such policies and procedures as are necessary to ensure compliance with this section. State agencies and/or local educational agencies may impose additional restrictions on competitive foods, provided that they are not inconsistent with the requirements of this part.
(2)
Recordkeeping.
The local educational agency is responsible for the maintenance of records that document compliance with the nutrition standards for all competitive food available for sale to students in areas under its jurisdiction that are outside of the control of the school food authority responsible for the service of reimbursable school meals. In addition, the local educational agency is responsible for ensuring that organizations designated as responsible for food service at the various venues in the schools maintain records in order to ensure and document compliance with the nutrition requirements for the foods and beverages sold to students at these venues during the school day as required by this section. The school food authority is responsible for maintaining records documenting compliance with these for foods sold under the auspices of the nonprofit school food service. At a minimum, records must include receipts, nutrition labels and/or product specifications for the competitive food available for sale to students.
(3)
Applicability.
The nutrition standards for the sale of competitive food outlined in this section apply to competitive food for all programs authorized by the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 operating on the school campus during the school day.
(4)
Fundraiser restrictions.
Competitive food and beverage items sold during the school day must meet the nutrition standards for competitive food as required in this section. A special exemption is allowed for the sale of food and/or beverages that do not meet the competitive food standards as required in this section for the purpose of conducting an infrequent school-sponsored fundraiser. Such specially exempted fundraisers must not take place more than the frequency specified by the State agency during such periods that schools are in session. No specially exempted fundraiser foods or beverages may be sold in competition with school meals in the food service area during the meal service.
(c)
General nutrition standards for competitive food.
(1)
General requirement.
At a minimum, all competitive food sold to students on the school campus during the school day must meet the nutrition standards specified in this section. These standards apply to items as packaged and served to students.
(2)
General nutrition standards.
To be allowable, a competitive food item must:
(i) Meet all of the competitive food nutrient standards as outlined in this section; and
(ii) Be a grain product that contains 50 percent or more whole grains by weight or have as the first ingredient a whole grain; or
(iii) Have as the first ingredient one of the non-grain major food groups: fruits, vegetables, dairy or protein foods (meat, beans, poultry, seafood, eggs, nuts, seeds, etc.); or
(iv) Be a combination food that contains
1/4
cup of fruit and/or vegetable; or
(v) If water is the first ingredient, the second ingredient must be one of the food items in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section.
(3)
Exemptions.
(i)
Entrée items offered as part of the lunch or breakfast program.
Any entrée item offered as part of the lunch program or the breakfast program under 7 CFR Part 220 is exempt from all competitive food standards if it is offered as a competitive food on the day of, or the school day after, it is offered in the lunch or breakfast program. Exempt entrée items offered as a
competitive food must be offered in the same or smaller portion sizes as in the lunch or breakfast program. Side dishes offered as part of the lunch or breakfast program and served à la carte must meet the nutrition standards in this section.
(ii)
Sugar-free chewing gum.
Sugar-free chewing gum is exempt from all of the competitive food standards in this section and may be sold to students on the school campus during the school day, at the discretion of the local educational agency.
(d)
Fruits and vegetables.
(1) Fresh, frozen and canned fruits with no added ingredients except water or packed in 100 percent fruit juice or light syrup or extra light syrup are exempt from the nutrient standards included in this section.
(2) Fresh and frozen vegetables with no added ingredients except water and canned vegetables that are low sodium or no salt added that contain no added fat are exempt from the nutrient standards included in this section.
(e)
Grain products.
Grain products acceptable as a competitive food must include 50 percent or more whole grains by weight or have whole grain as the first ingredient. Grain products must meet all of the other nutrient standards included in this section.
(f)
Total fat and saturated fat.
(1)
General requirements.
(i) The total fat content of a competitive food must be not more than 35 percent of total calories from fat per item as packaged or served, except as specified in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section.
(ii) The saturated fat content of a competitive food must be less than 10 percent of total calories per item as packaged or served, except as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(2)
Exemptions to the total fat requirement.
(i) Seafood with no added fat is exempt from the total fat requirement, but subject to the saturated fat, sugar, calorie, and sodium standards.
(ii) Bean dip (as defined in paragraph (a)(7) of this section), is exempt from the total fat standard, but subject to the saturated fat, sugar, calorie, and sodium standards. This exemption does not apply to combination products that contain bean dip with other ingredients such as crackers, pretzels, pita, manufactured, snack-type vegetable and/or fruit sticks.
(3)
Exemptions to the total fat and saturated fat requirements.
(i) Reduced fat cheese and part skim mozzarella cheese are exempt from the total fat and saturated fat standards, but subject to the sugar, calorie, and sodium standards. This exemption does not apply to combination foods.
(ii) Nuts and seeds and nut/seed butters are exempt from the total fat and saturated fat standards, but subject to the sugar, calorie, and sodium standards. This exemption does not apply to combination products that contain nuts, seeds, or nut/seed butters with other ingredients, such as peanut butter and crackers, trail mix, or chocolate covered peanuts.
(iii) Products that consist of only dried fruit with nuts and/or seeds with no added nutritive sweeteners or fat are exempt from the total fat, saturated fat, and sugar standards, but subject to the calorie and sodium standards.
(iv) Whole eggs with no added fat are exempt from the total fat and saturated fat standards, but subject to the calorie and sodium standards.
(g)
Total sugars.
(1)
General requirement.
The total sugar content of a competitive food must be not more than 35 percent of
weight
per item as packaged or served, except as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exemptions to the total sugar requirement.
(i) Dried whole fruits or vegetables; dried whole fruit or vegetable pieces; and dehydrated fruits or vegetables with no added nutritive sweeteners are exempt from the sugar standard, but subject to the total fat, saturated fat, calorie, and sodium standards. There is also an exemption from the sugar standard for dried fruits with nutritive sweeteners that are required for processing and/or palatability purposes.
(ii) Products that consist of only dried fruit with nuts and/or seeds with no added nutritive sweeteners or fat are exempt from the total fat, saturated fat, and sugar standards, but subject to the calorie and sodium standards.
(h)
Calorie and sodium content for snack items and side dishes sold as competitive foods.
Snack items and side dishes sold as competitive foods must have not more than 200 calories and 200 mg of sodium per item as packaged or served, including the calories and sodium contained in any added accompaniments such as butter, cream cheese, salad dressing, etc., and must meet all of the other nutrient standards in this section. These snack items and side dishes must have not more than 200 calories and 200 mg of sodium per item as packaged or served.
(i)
Calorie and sodium content for entrée items sold as competitive foods.
Entrée items sold as competitive foods, other than those exempt from the competitive food nutrition standards in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, must have not more than 350 calories and 480 mg of sodium per item as packaged or served, including the calories and sodium contained in any added accompaniments such as butter, cream cheese, salad dressing, etc., and must meet all of the other nutrient standards in this section.
(j)
Caffeine.
Foods and beverages available to elementary and middle school-aged students must be caffeine-free, with the exception of trace amounts of naturally occurring caffeine substances. Foods and beverages available to high school-aged students may contain caffeine.
(k)
Accompaniments.
The use of accompaniments is limited when competitive food is sold to students in school. The accompaniments to a competitive food item must be included in the nutrient profile as a part of the food item served in determining if an item meets all of the nutrition standards for competitive food as required in this section. The contribution of the accompaniments may be based on the average amount of the accompaniment used per item at the site.
(l)
Beverages
—(1)
Elementary schools.
Allowable beverages for elementary school-aged students are limited to:
(i) Plain water or plain carbonated water (no size limit);
(ii) Milk and fluid milk substitutes that meet the requirements outlined in § 210.10(d)(1) and (2) (no more than 8 fluid ounces); and
(iii) One hundred (100) percent fruit/vegetable juice, and 100 percent fruit/vegetable juice diluted with water, with or without carbonation and with no added sweeteners (no more than 8 fluid ounces).
(2)
Middle schools.
Allowable beverages for middle school-aged students are limited to:
(i) Plain water or plain carbonated water (no size limit);
(ii) Milk and fluid milk substitutes that meet the requirements outlined in § 210.10(d)(1) and (2) (no more than 12 fluid ounces); and
(iii) One hundred (100) percent fruit/vegetable juice, and 100 percent fruit/vegetable juice diluted with water, with or without carbonation and with no added sweeteners (no more than 12 fluid ounces).
(3)
High schools.
Allowable beverages for high school-aged students are limited to:
(i) Plain water or plain carbonated water (no size limit);
(ii) Milk and fluid milk substitutes that meet the requirements outlined in § 210.10(d)(1) and (2) (no more than 12 fluid ounces);
(iii) One hundred (100) percent fruit/vegetable juice, and 100 percent fruit/vegetable juice diluted with water, with or without carbonation and with no added sweeteners (no more than 12 fluid ounces);
(iv) Calorie-free, flavored water, with or without carbonation (no more than 20 fluid ounces);
(v) Other beverages that are labeled to contain less than 5 calories per 8 fluid ounces, or less than or equal to 10 calories per 20 fluid ounces (no more than 20 fluid ounces); and
(vi) Other beverages that are labeled to contain no more than 40 calories per 8 fluid ounces or 60 calories per 12 fluid ounces (no more than 12 fluid ounces).
[78 FR 39091, June 28, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 50151, July 29, 2016; 82 FR 56714, Nov. 30, 2017; 83 FR 63790, Dec. 12, 2018; 85 FR 74848, Nov. 24, 2020; 87 FR 7006, Feb. 7, 2022; 89 FR 32072, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.12
Student, parent, and community involvement.
(a)
General.
School food authorities shall promote activities to involve students and parents in the Program.
Such activities may include menu planning, enhancement of the eating environment, Program promotion, and related student-community support activities. School food authorities are encouraged to use the school food service program to teach students about good nutrition practices and to involve the school faculty and the general community in activities to enhance the Program.
(b)
Food service management companies.
School food authorities contracting with a food service management company shall comply with the provisions of § 210.16(a) regarding the establishment of an advisory board of parents, teachers and students.
(c)
Residential child care institutions.
Residential child care institutions shall comply with the provisions of this section, to the extent possible.
(d)
Outreach activities.
(1) To the maximum extent practicable, school food authorities must inform families about the availability breakfasts for students. Information about the School Breakfast Program must be distributed just prior to or at the beginning of the school year. In addition, schools are encouraged to send reminders regarding the availability of the School Breakfast Program multiple times throughout the school year.
(2) School food authorities must cooperate with Summer Food Service Program sponsors to distribute materials to inform families of the availability and location of free Summer Food Service Program meals for students when school is not in session.
(e)
Local school wellness policies.
Local educational agencies must comply with the provisions of § 210.31(d) regarding student, parent, and community involvement in the development, implementation, and periodic review and update of the local school wellness policy.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 78 FR 13448, Feb. 28, 2013; 81 FR 50168, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32073, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.13
Facilities management.
(a)
Health standards.
The school food authority shall ensure that food storage, preparation and service is in accordance with the sanitation and health standards established under State and local law and regulations.
(b)
Food safety inspections.
Schools shall obtain a minimum of two food safety inspections during each school year conducted by a State or local governmental agency responsible for food safety inspections. They shall post in a publicly visible location a report of the most recent inspection conducted, and provide a copy of the inspection report to a member of the public upon request. Sites participating in more than one child nutrition program shall only be required to obtain two food safety inspections per school year if the nutrition programs offered use the same facilities for the production and service of meals.
(c)
Food safety program.
The school food authority must develop a written food safety program that covers any facility or part of a facility where food is stored, prepared, or served. The food safety program must meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and the requirements in § 210.15(b)(5).
(1) A school food authority with a food safety program based on traditional hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) principles must:
(i) Perform a hazard analysis;
(ii) Decide on critical control points;
(iii) Determine the critical limits;
(iv) Establish procedures to monitor critical control points;
(v) Establish corrective actions;
(vi) Establish verification procedures; and
(vii) Establish a recordkeeping system.
(2) A school food authority with a food safety program based on the process approach to HACCP must ensure that its program includes:
(i) Standard operating procedures to provide a food safety foundation;
(ii) Menu items grouped according to process categories;
(iii) Critical control points and critical limits;
(iv) Monitoring procedures;
(v) Corrective action procedures;
(vi) Recordkeeping procedures; and
(vii) Periodic program review and revision.
(d)
Storage.
The school food authority shall ensure that the necessary facilities for storage, preparation and service of food are maintained. Facilities
for the handling, storage, and distribution of purchased and donated foods shall be such as to properly safeguard against theft, spoilage and other loss.
[54 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 50740, Sept. 20, 1999; 70 FR 34630, June 15, 2005; 74 FR 66216, Dec. 15, 2009; 78 FR 13448, Feb. 28, 2013]
§ 210.14
Resource management.
(a)
Nonprofit school food service.
School food authorities shall maintain a nonprofit school food service. Revenues received by the nonprofit school food service are to be used only for the operation or improvement of such food service,
except that,
such revenues shall not be used to purchase land or buildings, unless otherwise approved by FNS, or to construct buildings. Expenditures of nonprofit school food service revenues shall be in accordance with the financial management system established by the State agency under § 210.19(a) of this part. School food authorities may use facilities, equipment, and personnel supported with nonprofit school food revenues to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
).
(b)
Net cash resources.
The school food authority shall limit its net cash resources to an amount that does not exceed 3 months average expenditures for its nonprofit school food service or such other amount as may be approved by the State agency in accordance with § 210.19(a).
(c)
Financial assurances.
The school food authority shall meet the requirements of the State agency for compliance with § 210.19(a) including any separation of records of nonprofit school food service from records of any other food service which may be operated by the school food authority as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Use of donated foods.
The school food authority shall enter into an agreement with the distributing agency to receive donated foods as required by part 250 of this chapter. In addition, the school food authority shall accept and use, in as large quantities as may be efficiently utilized in its nonprofit school food service, such foods as may be offered as a donation by the Department. The school food authority's policies, procedures, and records must account for the receipt, full value, proper storage and use of donated foods.
(e)
Pricing paid lunches.
For each school year, school food authorities must establish prices for paid lunches in accordance with this paragraph (e).
(1)
Calculation procedures.
Each school food authority shall:
(i) Determine the average price of paid lunches. The average shall be determined based on the total number of paid lunches claimed for the month of October in the previous school year, at each different price charged by the school food authority.
(ii) Calculate the difference between the per meal Federal reimbursement for paid and free lunches received by the school food authority in the previous school year (
i.e.,
the reimbursement difference);
(iii) Compare the average price of a paid lunch under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to the difference between reimbursement rates under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2)
Average paid lunch price is equal to/greater than the reimbursement difference.
When the average paid lunch price from the prior school year is equal to or greater than the difference in reimbursement rates as determined in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the school food authority shall establish an average paid lunch price for the current school year that is not less than the difference identified in (e)(1)(iii) of this section; except that, the school food authority may use the procedure in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section when establishing prices of paid lunches.
(3)
Average lunch price is lower than the reimbursement difference.
When the average price from the prior school year is lower than the difference in reimbursement rates as determined in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the school food authority shall establish an average price for the current school year that is not less than the average price charged in the previous school year as adjusted by a percentage equal to the sum obtained by adding:
(i) 2 percent; and
(ii) The percentage change in the Consumers Price Index for All Urban
Consumers used to increase the Federal reimbursement rate under section 11 of the Act for the most recent school year for which data are available. The percentage to be used is found in the annual notice published in the
Federal Register
announcing the national average payment rates, from the prior year.
(4)
Price Adjustments.
(i)
Maximum required price increase.
The maximum annual average price increase required under this paragraph shall not exceed ten cents.
(ii)
Rounding of paid lunch prices.
Any school food authority may round the adjusted price of the paid lunches down to the nearest five cents.
(iii)
Optional price increases.
A school food authority may increase the average price by more than ten cents.
(5)
Reduction in average price for paid lunches.
(i) Any school food authority may reduce the average price of paid lunches as established under this paragraph if the State agency ensures that funds are added to the nonprofit school food service account in accordance with this paragraph.
The minimum that must be added is the product of:
(A) The number of paid lunches claimed by the school food authority in the previous school year multiplied by
(B) The amount required under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, as adjusted under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, minus the average price charged.
(ii)
Prohibitions.
The following shall not be used to reduce the average price charged for paid lunches:
(A) Federal sources of revenue;
(B) Revenue from foods sold in competition with lunches or with breakfasts offered under the School Breakfast Program authorized in 7 CFR part 220. Requirements concerning foods sold in competition with lunches or breakfasts are found in § 210.11 and § 220.12 of this chapter, respectively;
(C) In-kind contributions;
(D) Any in-kind contributions converted to direct cash expenditures; and
(E) Per-meal reimbursements (non-Federal) specifically provided for support of programs other than the school lunch program.
(iii)
Allowable non-Federal revenue sources.
Any contribution that is for the direct support of paid lunches that is not prohibited under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section may be used as revenue for this purpose. Such contributions include, but are not limited to:
(A) Per-lunch reimbursements for paid lunches provided by State or local governments;
(B) Funds provided by organizations, such as school-related or community groups, to support paid lunches;
(C) Any portion of State revenue matching funds that exceeds the minimum requirement, as provided in § 210.17, and is provided for paid lunches; and
(D) A proportion attributable to paid lunches from direct payments made from school district funds to support the lunch service.
(6)
Additional considerations.
(i) In any given year, if a school food authority with an average price lower than the reimbursement difference is not required by paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section to increase its average price for paid lunches, the school food authority shall use the unrounded average price as the basis for calculations to meet paragraph (e)(3) of this section for the next school year.
(ii) If a school food authority has an average price lower than the reimbursement difference and chooses to increase its average price for paid lunches in any school year more than is required by this section, the amount attributable to the additional voluntary increase may be carried forward to the next school year(s) to meet the requirements of this section.
(7)
Reporting lunch prices.
In accordance with guidelines provided by FNS:
(i) School food authorities shall report prices charged for paid lunches to the State agency; and
(ii) State agencies shall report these prices to FNS.
(f)
Revenue from nonprogram foods.
School food authorities must ensure that the revenue generated from the sale of nonprogram foods complies with the requirements in this paragraph (f).
(1)
Definition of nonprogram foods.
For the purposes of this paragraph, nonprogram foods are those foods and beverages:
(i) Sold in a participating school other than reimbursable meals and meal supplements; and
(ii) Purchased using funds from the nonprofit school food service account.
(2)
Revenue from nonprogram foods.
The proportion of total revenue from the sale of nonprogram foods to total revenue of the school food service account shall be equal to or greater than:
(i) The proportion of total food costs associated with obtaining nonprogram foods to
(ii) The total costs associated with obtaining program and nonprogram foods from the account.
(3) All revenue from the sale of nonprogram foods shall accrue to the nonprofit school food service account of a participating school food authority.
(g)
Indirect costs.
School food authorities must follow fair and consistent methodologies to identify and allocate allowable indirect costs to the nonprofit school food service account, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as implemented by 2 CFR part 400.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 31215, June 13, 1995; 76 FR 35316, June 17, 2011; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32073, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.15
Reporting and recordkeeping.
(a)
Reporting summary.
Participating school food authorities are required to submit forms and reports to the State agency or the distributing agency, as appropriate, to demonstrate compliance with Program requirements. These reports include, but are not limited to:
(1) A Claim for Reimbursement and, for the month of October and as otherwise specified by the State agency, supporting data as specified in accordance with § 210.8 of this part;
(2) An application and agreement for Program operations between the school food authority and the State agency, and a Free and Reduced Price Policy Statement as required under § 210.9;
(3) A written response to reviews pertaining to corrective action taken for Program deficiencies;
(4) A commodity school's preference whether to receive part of its donated food allocation in cash for processing and handling of donated foods as required under § 210.19(b);
(5) A written response to audit findings pertaining to the school food authority's operation as required under § 210.22;
(6) Information on civil rights complaints, if any, and their resolution as required under § 210.23;
(7) The number of food safety inspections obtained per school year by each school under its jurisdiction;
(8) The prices of paid lunches charged by the school food authority; and
(9) For any local educational agency required to conduct a second review of free and reduced price applications as required under § 245.11 of this chapter, the number of free and reduced price applications subject to a second review, the number and percentage of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed, and a summary of the types of changes made.
(b)
Recordkeeping summary.
In order to participate in the Program, a school food authority or a school, as applicable, must maintain records to demonstrate compliance with Program requirements. These records include but are not limited to:
(1) Documentation of participation data by school in support of the Claim for Reimbursement and data used in the claims review process, as required under § 210.8(a), (b), and (c) of this part;
(2) Production and menu records as required under § 210.10 and documentation to support performance-based cash assistance, as required under § 210.7(d)(2).
(3) Participation records to demonstrate positive action toward providing one lunch per child per day as required under § 210.10(a)(2), whichever is applicable;
(4) Currently approved and denied certification documentation for free and reduced price lunches and a description of the verification activities, including verified applications, and any accompanying source documentation in accordance with 7 CFR 245.6a of this Title; and
(5) Records from the food safety program for a period of six months following a month's temperature records to demonstrate compliance with § 210.13(c), and records from the most recent food safety inspection to demonstrate compliance with § 210.13(b);
(6) Records to document compliance with the requirements in § 210.14(e);
(7) Records to document compliance with the requirements in § 210.14(f); and
(8) Records for a three year period to demonstrate the school food authority's compliance with the professional standards for school nutrition program directors, managers and personnel established in § 210.30.
(9) Records to document compliance with the local school wellness policy requirements as set forth in § 210.31(f).
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 12582, Mar. 28, 1989; 56 FR 32941, July 17, 1991; 60 FR 31215, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26912, 26922, May 9, 2000; 70 FR 34630, June 15, 2005; 74 FR 66216, Dec. 15, 2009; 76 FR 35317, June 17, 2011; 77 FR 25035, Apr. 27, 2012; 79 FR 7053, Feb. 6, 2014; 80 FR 11092, Mar. 2, 2015; 81 FR 50169, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32073, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.16
Food service management companies.
(a)
General.
Any school food authority (including a State agency acting in the capacity of a school food authority) may contract with a food service management company to manage its food service operation in one or more of its schools. However, no school or school food authority may contract with a food service management company to operate an a la carte food service unless the company agrees to offer free, reduced price and paid reimbursable lunches to all eligible children. Any school food authority that employs a food service management company in the operation of its nonprofit school food service shall:
(1) Adhere to the procurement standards specified in § 210.21 when contracting with the food service management company;
(2) Ensure that the food service operation is in conformance with the school food authority's agreement under the Program;
(3) Monitor the food service operation through periodic on-site visits;
(4) Retain control of the quality, extent, and general nature of its food service, and the prices to be charged the children for meals;
(5) Retain signature authority on the State agency-school food authority agreement, free and reduced price policy statement and claims;
(6) Ensure that all federally donated foods received by the school food authority and made available to the food service management company accrue only to the benefit of the school food authority's nonprofit school food service and are fully utilized therein;
(7) Maintain applicable health certification and assure that all State and local regulations are being met by a food service management company preparing or serving meals at a school food authority facility;
(8) Establish an advisory board composed of parents, teachers, and students to assist in menu planning;
(9) Obtain written approval of invitations for bids and requests for proposals before their issuance when required by the State agency. The school food authority must incorporate all State agency required changes to its solicitation documents before issuing those documents; and
(10) Ensure that the State agency has reviewed and approved the contract terms and that the school food authority has incorporated all State agency required changes into the contract or amendment before any contract or amendment to an existing food service management company contract is executed. Any changes made by the school food authority or a food service management company to a State agency pre-approved prototype contract or State agency approved contract term must be approved in writing by the State agency before the contract is executed. When requested, the school food authority must submit all procurement documents, including responses submitted by potential contractors, to the State agency, by the due date established by the State agency.
(b)
Invitation to bid.
In addition to adhering to the procurement standards under § 210.21, school food authorities contracting with food service management companies shall ensure that:
(1) The invitation to bid or request for proposal contains a 21-day cycle menu developed in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10, to be used as a standard for the purpose of basing bids or estimating average cost per meal. A school food authority with no capability to prepare a cycle menu may,
with State agency approval, require that each food service management company include a 21-day cycle menu, developed in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10, with its bid or proposal. The food service management company must adhere to the cycle for the first 21 days of meal service. Changes thereafter may be made with the approval of the school food authority.
(2) Any invitation to bid or request for proposal indicate that nonperformance subjects the food service management company to specified sanctions in instances where the food service management company violates or breaches contract terms. The school food authority shall indicate these sanctions in accordance with the procurement provisions stated in § 210.21.
(c)
Contracts.
Contracts that permit all income and expenses to accrue to the food service management company and “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost” and “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-income” contracts are prohibited. Contracts that provide for fixed fees such as those that provide for management fees established on a per meal basis are allowed. Contractual agreements with food service management companies shall include provisions which ensure that the requirements of this section are met. Such agreements shall also include the following:
(1) The food service management company shall maintain such records as the school food authority will need to support its Claim for Reimbursement under this part, and shall, at a minimum, report claim information to the school food authority promptly at the end of each month. Such records shall be made available to the school food authority, upon request, and shall be retained in accordance with § 210.23(c).
(2) The food service management company shall have State or local health certification for any facility outside the school in which it proposes to prepare meals and the food service management company shall maintain this health certification for the duration of the contract.
(3) No payment is to be made for meals that are spoiled or unwholesome at time of delivery, do not meet detailed specifications as developed by the school food authority for each food component specified in § 210.10, or do not otherwise meet the requirements of the contract. Specifications shall cover items such a grade, purchase units, style, condition, weight, ingredients, formulations, and delivery time.
(4) Provisions in part 250, subpart D of this chapter must be included to ensure the value of donated foods,
i.e.,
USDA Foods, are fully used in the nonprofit food service and credited to the nonprofit school food service account.
(d)
Duration of contract.
The contract between a school food authority and food service management company shall be of a duration of no longer than 1 year; and options for the yearly renewal of a contract signed after February 16, 1988, may not exceed 4 additional years. All contracts shall include a termination clause whereby either party may cancel for cause with 60-day notification.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 31215, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26912, May 9, 2000; 72 FR 61491, Oct. 31, 2007; 88 FR 57845, Aug. 23, 2023]

# Subpart D—Requirements for State Agency Participation
§ 210.17
Matching Federal funds.
(a)
State revenue matching.
For each school year, the amount of State revenues appropriated or used specifically by the State for program purposes shall not be less than 30 percent of the funds received by such State under section 4 of the National School Lunch Act during the school year beginning July 1, 1980;
provided that,
the State revenues derived from the operation of such programs and State revenues expended for salaries and administrative expenses of such programs at the State level are not considered in this computation. However, if the per capita income of any State is less than the per capita income of the United States, the matching requirements so computed shall be decreased by the percentage by which the State per capita income is below the per capita income of the United States.
(b)
Private school exemption.
No State in which the State agency is prohibited
by law from disbursing State appropriated funds to nonpublic schools shall be required to match general cash assistance funds expended for meals served in such schools, or to disburse to such schools any of the State revenues required to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Furthermore, the requirements of this section do not apply to schools in which the Program is administered by a FNSRO.
(c)
Territorial waiver.
American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be exempted from the matching requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if their respective matching requirements are under $100,000.
(d)
Applicable revenues.
The following State revenues, appropriated or used specifically for program purposes which are expended for any school year shall be eligible for meeting the applicable percentage of the matching requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section for that school year:
(1) State revenues disbursed by the State agency to school food authorities for program purposes, including revenue disbursed to nonprofit private schools where the State administers the program in such schools;
(2) State revenues made available to school food authorities and transferred by the school food authorities to the nonprofit school food service accounts or otherwise expended by the school food authorities in connection with the nonprofit school food service program; and
(3) State revenues used to finance the costs (other than State salaries or other State level administrative costs) of the nonprofit school food service program, i.e.:
(i) Local program supervision;
(ii) Operating the program in participating schools; and
(iii) The intrastate distribution of foods donated under part 250 of this chapter to schools participating in the program.
(e)
Distribution of matching revenues.
All State revenues made available under paragraph (a) of this section are to be disbursed to school food authorities participating in the Program,
except as
provided for under paragraph (b) of this section. Distribution of matching revenues may be made with respect to a class of school food authorities as well as with respect to individual school food authorities.
(f)
Failure to match.
If, in any school year, a State fails to meet the State revenue matching requirement, as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, the general cash assistance funds utilized by the State during that school year shall be subject to recall by and repayment to FNS.
(g)
Reports.
Within 120 days after the end of each school year, each State agency shall submit an Annual Report of Revenues (FNS-13) to FNS. This report identifies the State revenues to be counted toward the State revenue matching requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(h)
Accounting system.
The State agency shall establish or cause to be established a system whereby all expended State revenues counted in meeting the matching requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section are properly documented and accounted for.
§ 210.18
Administrative reviews.
(a)
Programs covered and methodology.
Each State agency must follow the requirements of this section to conduct administrative reviews of school food authorities participating in the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program (part 220 of this chapter). These procedures must also be followed, as applicable, to conduct administrative reviews of the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and Seamless Summer Option, the Special Milk Program (part 215 of this chapter), and the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. To conduct a program review, the State agency must gather and assess information off-site and/or on-site, observe the school food service operation, and use a risk-based approach to evaluate compliance with specific program requirements.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions are provided in alphabetical order in order to clarify State agency administrative review requirements:
Administrative reviews
means the comprehensive evaluation of all school food
authorities participating in the programs specified in paragraph (a) of this section. It includes a review of both critical and general areas in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, as applicable for each reviewed program. With FNS approval, the administrative review may include other areas of program operations determined by the State agency.
Critical areas
means the following two performance standards described in detail in paragraph (g) of this section:
General areas
means the areas of review specified in paragraph (h) of this section. These areas include free and reduced-price process, civil rights, school food authority on-site monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping, food safety, competitive food services, water, program outreach, resource management, Buy American, and other areas identified by FNS.
(i)
Performance Standard 1
—All free, reduced price and paid school meals claimed for reimbursement are served only to children eligible for free, reduced price and paid school meals, respectively; and are counted, recorded, consolidated and reported through a system which consistently yields correct claims.
(ii)
Performance Standard 2
—Reimbursable lunches meet the meal requirements in § 210.10, as applicable to the age/grade group reviewed. Reimbursable breakfasts meet the meal requirements in § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable to the age/grade group reviewed.
Day of Review
means the day(s) on which the on-site review of the individual sites selected for review occurs.
Documented corrective action
means written notification required of the school food authority to certify that the corrective action required for each violation has been completed and to notify the State agency of the dates of completion. Documented corrective action may be provided at the time of the review or may be submitted to the State agency within specified timeframes.
General areas
means the areas of review specified in paragraph (h) of this section. These areas include free and reduced price process, civil rights, school food authority on-site monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping, food safety, competitive food services, water, program outreach, resource management, and other areas identified by FNS.
Participation factor
means the percentages of children approved by the school for free meals, reduced price meals, and paid meals, respectively, who are participating in the Program. The free participation factor is derived by dividing the number of free lunches claimed for any given period by the product of the number of children approved for free lunches for the same period times the operating days in that period. A similar computation is used to determine the reduced price and paid participation factors. The number of children approved for paid meals is derived by subtracting the number of children approved for free and reduced price meals for any given period from the total number of children enrolled in the reviewed school for the same period of time, if available. If such enrollment figures are not available, the most recent total number of children enrolled must be used. If school food authority participation factors are unavailable or unreliable, State-wide data must be employed.
Review period
means the most recent month for which a Claim for Reimbursement was submitted, provided that it covers at least ten (10) operating days.
(c)
Review cycle.
State agencies must conduct administrative reviews of all school food authorities participating in the National School Lunch Program (including Afterschool Snacks and the Seamless Summer Option) and the School Breakfast Program at least once during a 5-year review cycle, provided that each school food authority is reviewed at least once every 6 years, depending on review cycle observed. At a minimum, the on-site portion of the administrative review must be completed during the school year in which the review began.
(1)
Targeted follow-up reviews.
A State agency that reviews school food authorities on a cycle longer than 3 years must identify school food authorities that are high-risk to receive a targeted follow-up review. A State agency must develop and receive FNS approval of a
plan to identify school food authorities that meet the high-risk criteria.
(2)
High-risk criteria for targeted follow-up reviews.
At a minimum, a State plan should identify as high-risk those school food authorities that during the most recent administrative review conducted in accordance with this § 210.18 had one or more of the following risk factors as determined by the State Agency: a 10 percent or greater certification and benefit issuance error rate; incomplete verification for the review year; or one or more significant or systemic errors in Performance Standard 1 as defined at (g)(1) of this section, Performance Standard 2 as defined at paragraph (g)(2) of this section, or allowable costs.
(3)
Timing and scope of targeted follow-up reviews.
Within two years of the review, high-risk school food authorities must receive a targeted follow-up review. Targeted follow-up reviews must include the areas of significant or systemic error identified in the previous review, and may include other areas at the discretion of the State agency. The State agency may conduct targeted follow-up reviews in the same school year as the administrative review, and may conduct any additional reviews at its discretion.
(d)
Scheduling school food authorities.
The State agency must use its own criteria to schedule school food authorities for administrative reviews; provided that the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section are met. State agencies may take into consideration the findings of the claims review process required under § 210.8(b)(2) in the selection of school food authorities.
(1)
Schedule of reviews.
To ensure no unintended overlap occurs, the State agency must inform FNS of the anticipated schedule of school food authority reviews upon request.
(2)
Exceptions.
In any school year in which FNS or the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) conducts a review or investigation of a school food authority in accordance with § 210.19(a)(4), the State agency must, unless otherwise authorized by FNS, delay conduct of a scheduled administrative review until the following school year. The State agency must document any exception authorized under this paragraph.
(e)
Number of schools to review.
At a minimum, the State agency must review the number of schools specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and must select the schools to be reviewed on the basis of the school selection criteria specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The State agency may review all schools meeting the school selection criteria specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(1)
Minimum number of schools.
State agencies must review at least one school from each local education agency. Except for residential child care institutions, the State agency must review all schools with a free average daily participation of 100 or more and a free participation factor of 100 percent or more. In no event must the State agency review less than the minimum number of schools illustrated in Table A for the National School Lunch Program.
Table A
Number of schools in the school food authority
Minimum
number
of schools to
review
1 to 5
1
6 to 10
2
11 to 20
3
21 to 40
4
41 to 60
6
61 to 80
8
81 to 100
10
101 or more
*12
* Twelve plus 5 percent of the number of schools over 100. Fractions must be rounded up (
0.5) or down (
0.5) to the nearest whole number.
(2)
School selection criteria.
(i) Selection of additional schools to meet the minimum number of schools required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, must be based on the following criteria:
(A) Elementary schools with a free average daily participation of 100 or more and a free participation factor of 97 percent or more;
(B) Secondary schools with a free average daily participation of 100 or more and a free participation factor of 77 percent or more; and
(C) Combination schools with a free average daily participation of 100 or more and a free participation factor of 87 percent or more. A combination school means a school with a mixture of elementary and secondary grades.
(ii) When the number of schools selected on the basis of the criteria established in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section is not sufficient to meet the minimum number of schools required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the additional schools selected for review must be identified using State agency criteria which may include low participation schools; recommendations from a food service director based on findings from the on-site visits or the claims review process required under § 210.8(a); or any school in which the daily meal counts appear questionable (
e.g.,
identical or very similar claiming patterns, or large changes in free meal counts).
(iii) In selecting schools for an administrative review of the School Breakfast Program, State agencies must follow the selection criteria set forth in this paragraph and FNS'
Administrative Review Manual.
At a minimum:
(A) In school food authorities operating only the breakfast program, State agencies must review the number of schools set forth in Table A in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(B) In school food authorities operating both the lunch and breakfast programs, State agencies must review the breakfast program in 50 percent of the schools selected for an administrative review under paragraph (e)(1) of this section that operate the breakfast program.
(C) If none of the schools selected for an administrative review under paragraph (e)(1) of this section operates the breakfast program, but the school food authority operates the program elsewhere, the State agency must follow procedures in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual
to select at least one other site for a school breakfast review.
(3)
Site selection for other federal program reviews
—(i)
National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks.
If a school selected for an administrative review under this section operates Afterschool Snacks, the State agency must review snack documentation for compliance with program requirements, according to the FNS
Administrative Review Manual.
Otherwise, the State agency is not required to review the Afterschool Snacks.
(ii)
National School Lunch Program's Seamless Summer Option.
The State agency must review Seamless Summer Option at a minimum of one site if the school food authority selected for review under this section operates the Seamless Summer Option and only operates congregate meal service. If the school food authority operates congregate and non-congregate meal service, a minimum of two sites must be reviewed, one congregate site and one non-congregate site. If the school food authority has one site that operates both congregate and non-congregate meal services, the State agency may review a minimum of one site and must observe both a congregate and non-congregate meal service at that one site. This review can take place at any site within the reviewed school food authority the summer before or after the school year in which the administrative review is scheduled. The State agency must review the Seamless Summer Option for compliance with program requirements, according to the FNS
Administrative Review Manual.
(iii)
Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program.
The State agency must review the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program at one or more of the schools selected for an administrative review, as specified in Table B. If none of the schools selected for the administrative review operates the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program but the school food authority operates the Program elsewhere, the State agency must follow procedures in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual
to select one or more sites for the program review.
Table B
Number of schools
selected for an NSLP administrative review that operate the FFVP
Minimum
number
of FFVP schools
to be reviewed
0 to 5
1
6 to 10
2
11 to 20
3
21 to 40
4
41 to 60
6
61 to 80
8
81 to 100
10
101 or more
12*
* Twelve plus 5 percent of the number of schools over 100. Fractions must be rounded up (
0.5) or down (
0.5) to the nearest whole number.
(iv)
Special Milk Program.
If a school selected for review under this section operates the Special Milk Program, the State agency must review the school's program documentation off-site or on-site, as prescribed in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual.
On-site review is only required if the State agency has identified documentation problems or if the State agency has identified meal counting or claiming errors in the reviews conducted under the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program.
(4)
Pervasive problems.
If the State agency review finds pervasive problems in a school food authority, FNS may authorize the State agency to cease review activities prior to reviewing the required number of schools under paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section. Where FNS authorizes the State agency to cease review activity, FNS may either conduct the review activity itself or refer the school food authority to OIG.
(5)
Noncompliance with meal pattern requirements.
If the State agency determines there is significant noncompliance with the meal pattern and nutrition requirements set forth in § 210.10 and § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable, the State agency must select the school food authority for administrative review earlier in the review cycle.
(f)
Scope of review.
During the course of an administrative review for the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, the State agency must monitor compliance with the critical and general areas in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively. Selected critical and general areas must be monitored when reviewing the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and the Seamless Summer Option, the Special Milk Program, and the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, as applicable and as specified in the FNS Administrative Review Manual. State agencies may add additional review areas with FNS approval.
(1)
Review forms.
State agencies must use the administrative review forms, tools and workbooks prescribed by FNS.
(2)
Timeframes covered by the review.
(i) The timeframes covered by the administrative review include the review period and the day of review, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Subject to FNS approval, the State agency may conduct a review early in the school year, prior to the submission of a Claim for Reimbursement. In such cases, the review period must be the prior month of operation in the current school year, provided that such month includes at least 10 operating days.
(3)
Audit results.
The State agency may use any recent and currently applicable results from Federal, State, or local audit activity to meet FNS monitoring requirements. Such results may be used only when they pertain to the reviewed school(s) or the overall operation of the school food authority, when they are relevant to the review period, and when they adhere to audit standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The State agency must document the source and the date of the audit. The content of local level audits activity requires the approval of FNS to ensure that these audits align with Federal audit standards.
(4)
Completion of review requirements outside the administrative review.
State agencies may, with FNS approval, omit specific, redundant areas of the administrative review, when sufficient oversight is conducted outside of the administrative review.
(5)
Error reduction strategies.
State agencies may omit designated areas of review, in part or entirely, where a school food authority or State agency has implemented FNS-approved error reduction strategies or utilized FNS-approved monitoring efficiencies.
(g)
Critical areas of review.
The performance standards listed in this paragraph are directly linked to meal access and reimbursement, and to the meal pattern and nutritional quality of the reimbursable meals offered. These critical areas must be monitored by the State agency when conducting administrative reviews of the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. Selected aspects of these critical areas must also be monitored, as applicable, when conducting administrative reviews of the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool
Snacks and the Seamless Summer Option, and of the Special Milk Program. State agencies may omit designated critical areas of review, in part or entirely, where school food authority or State agency has implemented FNS-specified error reduction strategies or utilized FNS-specified monitoring efficiencies.
(1)
Performance Standard 1 (All free, reduced price and paid school meals claimed for reimbursement are served only to children eligible for free, reduced price and paid school meals, respectively; and are counted, recorded, consolidated and reported through a system which consistently yields correct claims.)
The State agency must follow review procedures stated in this section and as specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual
to ensure that the school food authority's certification and benefit issuance processes for school meals offered under the National School Lunch Program, and School Breakfast Program are conducted as required in part 245 of this chapter, as applicable. In addition, the State agency must ensure that benefit counting, consolidation, recording and claiming are conducted as required in this part and part 220 of this chapter for the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, respectively. The State agency must also follow procedures consistent with this section, and as specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual,
to review applicable areas of Performance Standard 1 in the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and Seamless Summer Option, and in the Special Milk Program.
(i)
Certification and benefit issuance.
The State agency must gather information and monitor the school food authority's compliance with program requirements regarding benefit application, direct certification, and categorical eligibility, as well as the transfer of benefits to the point-of-service benefit issuance document. To review this area, the State agency must obtain the benefit issuance document for each participating school under the jurisdiction of the school food authority for the day of review or a day in the review period, review all or a statistically valid sample of student certifications, and validate that the eligibility certification for free and reduced price meals was properly transferred to the benefit issuance document and reflects changes due to verification findings, transfers, or a household's decision to decline benefits. If the State agency chooses to review a statistically valid sample of student certifications, the State agency must use a sample size with a 99 percent confidence level of accuracy. However, a sample size with a 95 percent confidence level of accuracy may be used if a school food authority uses an electronic benefit issuance and certification system with no manual data entry and the State agency has not identified any potential systemic noncompliance. Any sample size must be large enough so that there is a 99 or 95 percent, as applicable, chance that the actual accuracy rate for all certifications is not less than 2 percentage points less than the accuracy rate found in the sample (
i.e.,
the lower bound of the one-sided 99/95 percent confidence interval is no more than 2 percentage points less than the point estimate).
(ii)
Meal counting and claiming.
The State agency must gather information and conduct an on-site visit to ensure that the processes used by the school food authority and reviewed school(s) to count, record, consolidate, and report the number of reimbursable meals/snacks served to eligible students by category (
i.e.,
free, reduced price or paid meal) are in compliance with program requirements and yield correct claims. The State agency must determine whether:
(A) The daily meal counts, by type, for the review period are more than the product of the number of children determined by the school/school food authority to be eligible for free, reduced price, and paid meals for the review period times an attendance factor. If the meal count, for any type, appears questionable or significantly exceeds the product of the number of eligibles, for that type, times an attendance factor, documentation showing good cause must be available for review by the State agency.
(B) For each school selected for review, each type of food service line provides accurate point of service meal counts, by type, and those meal counts are correctly counted and recorded. If an alternative counting system is employed (in accordance with § 210.7(c)(2)), the State agency shall ensure that it provides accurate counts of reimbursable meals, by type, and is correctly implemented as approved by the State agency.
(C) For each school selected for review, all meals are correctly counted, recorded, consolidated and reported for the day they are served.
(2)
Performance Standard 2 (Lunches claimed for reimbursement by the school food authority meet the meal requirements in § 210.10, as applicable to the age/grade group reviewed. Breakfasts claimed for reimbursement by the school food authority meet the meal requirements in § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable to the age/grade group reviewed.
) The State agency must follow review procedures, as stated in this section and detailed in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual,
to ensure that meals offered by the school food authority meet the food component and quantity requirements and the dietary specifications for each program, as applicable. Review of these critical areas may occur off-site or on-site. The State agency must also follow procedures consistent with this section, as specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual,
to review applicable areas of Performance Standard 2 in the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and Seamless Summer Option, and in the Special Milk Program.
(i)
Meal components and quantities.
For each school selected for review, the State agency must complete a USDA-approved menu tool, review documentation, and observe the meal service to ensure that meals offered by the reviewed schools meet the meal patterns for each program. To review this area, the State agency must:
(A) Review menu and production records for the reviewed schools for a minimum of one school week (
i.e.,
a minimum number of three consecutive school days and a maximum of seven consecutive school days) from the review period. Documentation, including food crediting documentation, such as food labels, product formulation statements, CN labels and bid documentation, must be reviewed to ensure compliance with the lunch and breakfast meal patterns. If the documentation review reveals problems with food components or quantities, the State agency must expand the review to, at a minimum, the entire review period. The State agency should consider a school food authority compliant with the school meal pattern if:
(
1
) When evaluating the daily and weekly range requirements for grains and meat/meat alternates, the documentation shows compliance with the daily and weekly minimums for these components, regardless of whether the school food authority has exceeded the recommended weekly maximums for the same components.
(
2
) When evaluating the service of frozen fruit, the State agency determines that the school food authority serves frozen fruit with or without added sugar.
(B) On the day of review, the State agency must:
(
1
) Observe a significant number of program meals, as described in the FNS Administrative Review Manual, at each serving line and review the corresponding documentation to determine whether all reimbursable meal service lines offer all of the required meal components/items and quantities for the age/grade groups being served, as required under § 210.10, as applicable, and § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable. Observe meals at the beginning, middle and end of the meal service line, and confirm that signage or other methods are used to assist students in identifying the reimbursable meal. If the State agency identifies missing components or inadequate quantities prior to the beginning of the meal service, it must inform the school food authority and provide an opportunity to make corrections. Additionally, if visual observation suggests that quantities offered are insufficient or excessive, the State agency must require the reviewed schools to provide documentation demonstrating that the required amounts of each component were available for service for each day of the review period.
(
2
) Observe a significant number of the program meals counted at the point of service for each type of serving line to determine whether the meals selected by the students contain the meal components and food quantities required for a reimbursable meal under § 210.10, as applicable, and § 220.8 of this chapter, as applicable.
(
3
) If Offer versus Serve is in place, observe whether students select at least three meal components at lunch and at least three food items at breakfasts, and that the lunches and breakfasts include at least
1/2
cup of fruits or vegetables.
(ii)
Dietary specifications.
The State agency must conduct a meal compliance risk assessment for each school selected for review to determine which school is at highest risk for nutrition-related violations. The State agency must conduct a targeted menu review for the school at highest risk for noncompliance using one of the options specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual.
Under the targeted menu review options, the State agency may conduct or validate an SFA-conducted nutrient analysis for both lunch and breakfast, or further evaluate risk for noncompliance and, at a minimum, conduct a nutrient analysis if further examination shows the school is at high risk for noncompliance with the dietary specifications in § 210.10 and § 220.8 of this chapter. The State agency is not required to assess compliance with the dietary specifications when reviewing meals for preschoolers, and the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and the Seamless Summer Option.
(iii)
Performance-based cash assistance.
If the school food authority is receiving performance-based cash assistance under § 210.7(d), the State agency must assess the school food authority's meal service and documentation of lunches served and determine its continued eligibility for the performance-based cash assistance.
(h)
General areas of review.
The general areas listed in this paragraph reflect requirements that must be monitored by the State agency when conducting administrative reviews of the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. Selected aspects of these general areas must also be monitored, as applicable and as specified in the FNS Administrative Review Manual, when conducting administrative reviews of the National School Lunch Program's Afterschool Snacks and Seamless Summer Option, the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, and the Special Milk Program. State agencies may omit designated general areas of review, in part or entirely, where the school food authority or State agency has implemented FNS-specified error reduction strategies or utilized FNS-specified monitoring efficiencies. State agencies may omit designated general areas of review, in part or entirely, where the school food authority or State agency has implemented FNS-specified error reduction strategies or utilized FNS-specified monitoring efficiencies. The general areas of review must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Resource management.
The State agency must conduct an assessment of the school food authority's nonprofit school food service account to evaluate the risk of noncompliance with resource management requirements. If risk indicators show that the school food authority is at high risk for noncompliance with resource management requirements, the State agency must conduct a comprehensive review including, but not limited to, the following areas using procedures specified in the FNS Administrative Review Manual.
(i)
Maintenance of the nonprofit school food service account.
The State agency must confirm the school food authority's resource management is consistent with the maintenance of the nonprofit school food service account requirements in §§ 210.2, 210.14, 210.19(a), and 210.21.
(ii)
Paid lunch equity.
The State agency must review compliance with the requirements for pricing paid lunches in § 210.14(e).
(iii)
Revenue from nonprogram foods.
The State agency must ensure that all non-reimbursable foods sold by the school food service, including, but not limited to, a la carte food items, adult meals, and vended meals, generate at least the same proportion of school
food authority revenues as they contribute to school food authority food costs, as required in § 210.14(f).
(iv)
Indirect costs.
The State agency must ensure that the school food authority follows fair and consistent methodologies to identify and allocate allowable indirect costs to school food service accounts, as required in 2 CFR part 200 and § 210.14(g).
(2)
General Program Compliance
—(i)
Free and reduced price process.
In the course of the review of each school food authority, the State agency must:
(A) Confirm the free and reduced price policy statement, as required in § 245.10 of this chapter, is implemented as approved.
(B) Ensure that the process used to verify children's eligibility for free and reduced price meals in a sample of household applications is consistent with the verification requirements, procedures, and deadlines established in § 245.6a of this chapter.
(C) Determine that, for each reviewed school, the meal count system does not overtly identify children eligible for free and reduced price meals, as required under § 245.8 of this chapter.
(D) Review at least 10 denied applications to evaluate whether the determining official correctly denied applicants for free and reduced price meals, and whether denied households were provided notification in accordance with § 245.6(c)(7)of this chapter.
(E) Confirm that a second review of applications has been conducted and that information has been correctly reported to the State agency as required in § 245.11, if applicable.
(ii)
Civil rights.
The State agency must examine the school food authority's compliance with the civil rights provisions specified in § 210.23(b) to ensure that no child is denied benefits or otherwise discriminated against in any of the programs reviewed under this section because of race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.
(iii)
School food authority on-site monitoring.
The State agency must ensure that the school food authority conducts on-site reviews of each school under its jurisdiction, as required by §§ 210.8(a)(1) and 220.11(d) of this chapter, and monitors claims and readily observable general areas of review in accordance with §§ 210.8(a)(2) and (a)(3), and 220.11(d) of this chapter.
(iv)
Competitive food standards.
The State agency must ensure that the local educational agency and school food authority comply with the nutrition standards for competitive foods in §§ 210.11 and 220.12 of this chapter, and retain documentation demonstrating compliance with the competitive food service and standards.
(v)
Water.
The State agency must ensure that plain potable water is available and accessible to children at no charge as specified in § 210.10(a)(1)(i) and § 220.8(a)(1) of this chapter.
(vi)
Food safety.
The State agency must examine records to confirm that each school food authority under its jurisdiction meets the food safety requirements of § 210.13.
(vii)
Reporting and recordkeeping.
The State agency must determine that the school food authority submits reports and maintains records in accordance with program requirements in this part, and parts 220 and 245 of this chapter, and as specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual.
(viii)
Program outreach.
The State agency must ensure the school food authority is conducting outreach activities to increase participation in the School Breakfast Program and the Summer Food Service Program, as required in § 210.12(d). If the State agency administering the Summer Food Service Program is not the same State agency that administers the National School Lunch Program, then the two State agencies must work together to implement outreach measures.
(ix)
Professional standards.
The State agency shall ensure the local educational agency and school food authority complies with the professional standards for school nutrition program directors, managers, and personnel established in § 210.30.
(x)
Local school wellness.
The State agency must ensure the local educational agency complies with the local school wellness requirements set forth in § 210.31.
(xi)
Buy American.
The State agency must ensure that the school food authority complies with the Buy American requirements set forth in
§ 210.21(d) and 7 CFR 220.16(d), as specified in the FNS Administrative Review Manual.
(i)
Entrance and exit conferences and notification
—(1)
Entrance conference.
The State agency may hold an entrance conference with the appropriate school food authority staff at the beginning of the on-site administrative review to discuss the results of any off-site assessments, the scope of the on-site review, and the number of schools to be reviewed.
(2)
Exit conference.
The State agency must hold an exit conference at the close of the administrative review and of any subsequent follow-up review to discuss the violations observed, the extent of the violations and a preliminary assessment of the actions needed to correct the violations. The State agency must discuss an appropriate deadline(s) for completion of corrective action, provided that the deadline(s) results in the completion of corrective action on a timely basis.
(3)
Notification.
The State agency must provide written notification of the review findings to the school food authority's Superintendent (or equivalent in a non-public school food authority) or authorized representative, preferably no later than 30 days after the exit conference for each review. The written notification must include the date(s) of review, date of the exit conference, review findings, the needed corrective actions, the deadlines for completion of the corrective action, and the potential fiscal action. As a part of the denial of all or a part of a Claim for Reimbursement or withholding payment in accordance with the provisions of this section, the State agency must provide the school food authority a written notice which details the grounds on which the denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement or withholding payment is based. This notice, must be provided by certified mail, or its equivalent, or sent electronically by email or facsimile. This notice shall also include a statement indicating that the school food authority may appeal the denial of all or a part of a Claim for Reimbursement or withholding payment and the entity (
i.e.,
FNS or State agency) to which the appeal should be directed. The notice is considered to be received by the school food authority when it is delivered by certified mail, return receipt (or the equivalent private delivery service), by facsimile, or by email. If the notice is undeliverable, it is considered to be received by the school food authority five days after being sent to the addressee's last known mailing address, facsimile number, or email address. The State agency shall notify the school food authority, in writing, of the appeal procedures as specified in paragraph (p) of this section for appeals of State agency findings, and for appeals of FNS findings, provide a copy of § 210.29(d)(3).
(j)
Corrective action.
Corrective action is required for any violation under either the critical or general areas of the review. Corrective action must be applied to all schools in the school food authority, as appropriate, to ensure that deficient practices and procedures are revised system-wide. Corrective actions may include training, technical assistance, recalculation of data to ensure the accuracy of any claim that the school food authority is preparing at the time of the review, or other actions. Fiscal action must be taken in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.
(1)
Extensions of the timeframes.
If the State agency determines that extraordinary circumstances make a school food authority unable to complete the required corrective action within the timeframes specified by the State agency, the State agency may extend the timeframes upon written request of the school food authority.
(2)
Documented corrective action.
Documented corrective action is required for any degree of violation of general or critical areas identified in an administrative review. Documented corrective action may be provided at the time of the review; however, it must be postmarked or submitted to the State agency electronically by email or facsimile, no later than 30 days from the deadline for completion of each required corrective action, as specified under paragraph (i)(2) of this section or as otherwise extended by the State agency under paragraph (j)(1) of this
section. The State agency must maintain any documented corrective action on file for review by FNS.
(k)
Withholding payment.
At a minimum, the State agency must withhold all program payments to a school food authority as follows:
(1)
Cause for withholding.
(i) The State agency must withhold all Program payments to a school food authority if documented corrective action for critical area violations is not provided with the deadlines specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section;
(ii) The State agency must withhold all Program payments to a school food authority if the State agency finds that corrective action for critical area violation was not completed;
(iii) The State agency may withhold Program payments to a school food authority at its discretion, if the State agency found a critical area violation on a previous review and the school food authority continues to have the same error for the same cause; and
(iv) For general area violations, the State agency may withhold Program payments to a school food authority at its discretion, if the State agency finds that documented corrective action is not provided within the deadlines specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, corrective action is not complete, or corrective action was not taken as specified in the documented corrective action.
(2)
Duration of withholding.
In all cases, Program payments must be withheld until such time as corrective action is completed, documented corrective action is received and deemed acceptable by the State agency, or the State agency completes a follow-up review and confirms that the problem has been corrected. Subsequent to the State agency's acceptance of the corrective actions, payments will be released for all meals served in accordance with the provisions of this part during the period the payments were withheld. In very serious cases, the State agency will evaluate whether the degree of non-compliance warrants termination in accordance with § 210.25.
(3)
Exceptions.
The State agency may, at its discretion, reduce the amount required to be withheld from a school food authority pursuant to paragraph (k)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section by as much as 60 percent of the total Program payments when it is determined to be in the best interest of the Program. FNS may authorize a State agency to limit withholding of funds to an amount less than 40 percent of the total Program payments, if FNS determines such action to be in the best interest of the Program.
(4)
Failure to withhold payments.
FNS may suspend or withhold Program payments, in whole or in part, to those State agencies failing to withhold Program payments in accordance with paragraph (k)(1) of this section and may withhold administrative funds in accordance with § 235.11(b) of this chapter. The withholding of Program payments will remain in effect until such time as the State agency documents compliance with paragraph (k)(1) of this section to FNS. Subsequent to the documentation of compliance, any withheld administrative funds will be released and payment will be released for any meals served in accordance with the provisions of this part during the period the payments were withheld.
(l)
Fiscal action.
The State agency must take fiscal action for all Performance Standard 1 violations and specific Performance Standard 2 violations identified during an administrative review, including targeted follow-up review or other reviews, as specified in this section. Fiscal action must be taken in accordance with the principles in § 210.19(c) and the procedures established in the FNS Administrative Review Manual. The State agency must follow the fiscal action formula prescribed by FNS to calculate the correct entitlement for a school food authority or a school. While there is no fiscal action required for general area violations, the State agency has the ability to withhold funds for repeat or egregious violations occurring in the majority of the general areas as described in paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.
(1)
Performance Standard 1 violations.
A State agency is required to take fiscal action for Performance Standard 1 violations, in accordance with this paragraph and paragraph (l)(3).
(i) For certification and benefit issuance errors cited under paragraph
(g)(1)(i) of this section, the total number of free and reduced price meals claimed must be adjusted to according to procedures established by FNS.
(ii) For meal counting and claiming errors cited under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency must apply fiscal action to the incorrect meal counts at the school food authority level, or only to the reviewed schools where violations were identified, as applicable.
(2)
Performance Standard 2 violations.
Fiscal action for Performance Standard 2 violations applies as follows:
(i) For missing meal components or missing production records cited under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the State agency must apply fiscal action.
(ii) For repeated violations involving food quantities, whole grain-rich foods, milk type, and vegetable subgroups cited under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the State agency has discretion to apply fiscal action as follows:
(A) If the meals contain insufficient quantities of the required meal components, the deficient meals may be disallowed and reclaimed.
(B) If no whole grain-rich foods are offered during the week of review, meals for up to the entire week of review may be disallowed and reclaimed.
(C) If insufficient whole grain-rich foods are offered during the week of review, meals for up to the entire week of review may be disallowed and/or reclaimed.
(D) If an unallowable milk type is offered, or no milk variety is offered, the deficient meals may be disallowed and reclaimed.
(E) If one vegetable subgroup is not offered over the course of the week of review, meals for up to the entire week of review may be disallowed and reclaimed.
(F) If a weekly vegetable subgroup is offered in insufficient quantity to meet the weekly vegetable subgroup requirement, meals for one day of the week of review may be disallowed and reclaimed.
(G) If the amount of juice offered exceeds the weekly limitation, meals for up to the entire week of review may be disallowed and/or reclaimed.
(iii) For repeated violations of the dietary specifications cited under paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, the State agency has discretion to apply fiscal action to the reviewed school as follows:
(A) If the average meal offered over the course of the week of review does not meet one of the dietary specifications, meals for the entire week of review may be disallowed and reclaimed; and
(B) Fiscal action is limited to the school selected for the targeted menu review and must be supported by a nutrient analysis of the meals at issue using USDA-approved software.
(iv) The following conditions must be met prior to applying fiscal action as described in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section:
(A) Technical assistance has been given by the State agency;
(B) Corrective action has been previously required and monitored by the State agency; and
(C) The school food authority remains noncompliant with the meal requirements established in part 210 and part 220 of this chapter.
(3)
Duration of fiscal action.
Fiscal action must be extended back to the beginning of the school year or that point in time during the current school year when the infraction first occurred for all violations of Performance Standard 1 and specific violations of Performance Standard 2. Based on the severity and longevity of the problem, the State agency may extend fiscal action back to previous school years. If corrective action occurs, the State agency may limit the duration of fiscal action for Performance Standard 1 and Performance Standard 2 violations as follows:
(i)
Performance Standard 1 certification and benefit issuance violations.
The total number of free and reduced price meals claimed for the review period and the month of the on-site review must be adjusted to reflect the State calculated certification and benefit issuance adjustment factors.
(ii)
Other Performance Standard 1 and Performance Standard 2 violations.
With the exception of violations described in paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, a State agency may limit fiscal action from the point corrective action occurs back through the beginning of the review period for errors.
(A) If corrective action occurs during the on-site review month or after, the State agency would be required to apply fiscal action from the point corrective action occurs back through the beginning of the on-site review month,
and
for the review period;
(B) If corrective action occurs during the review period, the State agency would be required to apply fiscal action from the point corrective action occurs back through the beginning of the review period;
(C) If corrective action occurs prior to the review period, no fiscal action would be required; and
(D) If corrective action occurs in a claim month between the review period and the on-site review month, the State agency would apply fiscal action only to the review period.
(4)
Performance-based cash assistance.
In addition to fiscal action described in paragraphs (l)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, school food authorities found to be out of compliance with the meal patterns or nutrition standards set forth in § 210.10 may not earn performance-based cash assistance authorized under § 210.4(b)(1) unless immediate corrective action occurs. School food authorities will not be eligible for the performance-based reimbursement beginning the month immediately following the administrative review and, at State discretion, for the month of review. Performance-based cash assistance may resume beginning in the first full month the school food authority demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State agency that corrective action has taken place.
(m)
Transparency requirement.
The most recent administrative review final results must be easily available to the public.
(1) The State agency must post a summary of the most recent results for each school food authority on the State agency's public Web site, and make a copy of the final administrative review report available to the public upon request. A State agency may also strongly encourage each school food authority to post a summary of the most recent results on its public Web site, and make a copy of the final administrative review report available to the public upon request.
(2) The summary must cover meal access and reimbursement, meal patterns and nutritional quality of school meals, school nutrition environment (including food safety, local school wellness policy, and competitive foods), civil rights, and program participation.
(3) The summary must be posted no later than 30 days after the State agency provides the results of administrative review to the school food authority.
(n)
Reporting requirement.
Each State agency must report to FNS the results of the administrative reviews by March 1 of each school year on a form designated by FNS. In such annual reports, the State agency must include the results of all administrative reviews conducted in the preceding school year.
(o)
Recordkeeping.
Each State agency must keep records which document the details of all reviews and demonstrate the degree of compliance with the critical and general areas of review. Records must be retained as specified in § 210.23(c) and include documented corrective action, and documentation of withholding of payments and fiscal action, including recoveries made. Additionally, the State agency must have on file:
(1) Criteria for selecting schools for administrative reviews in accordance with paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section.
(2) Documentation demonstrating compliance with the statistical sampling requirements in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, if applicable.
(p)
School food authority appeal of State agency findings.
Except for FNS-conducted reviews authorized under § 210.29(d)(2), each State agency must establish an appeal procedure to be followed by a school food authority requesting a review of a denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement, withholding payment arising from administrative or follow-up review activity conducted by the State agency under this § 210.18, or fines established under § 210.26, or § 215.15 or § 220.18 of this chapter. State agencies may use their own appeal procedures provided the same procedures are applied to all
appellants in the State and the procedures meet the following requirements: Appellants are assured of a fair and impartial hearing before an independent official at which they may be represented by legal counsel; decisions are rendered in a timely manner not to exceed 120 days from the date of the receipt of the request for review; appellants are afforded the right to either a review of the record with the right to file written information, or a hearing which they may attend in person; and adequate notice is given of the time, date, place and procedures of the hearing. If the State agency has not established its own appeal procedures or the procedures do not meet the above listed criteria, the State agency shall observe the following procedures at a minimum:
(1) The written request for a review must be postmarked within 15 calendar days of the date the appellant received the notice of the denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement, withholding of payment, or fines established under § 210.26, or § 215.15 or § 220.18 of this chapter, and the State agency must acknowledge the receipt of the request for appeal within 10 calendar days;
(2) The appellant may refute the action specified in the notice in person and by written documentation to the review official. In order to be considered, written documentation must be filed with the review official not later than 30 calendar days after the appellant received the notice. The appellant may retain legal counsel, or may be represented by another person. A hearing shall be held by the review official in addition to, or in lieu of, a review of written information submitted by the appellant only if the appellant so specifies in the letter of request for review. Failure of the appellant school food authority's representative to appear at a scheduled hearing shall constitute the appellant school food authority's waiver of the right to a personal appearance before the review official, unless the review official agrees to reschedule the hearing. A representative of the State agency shall be allowed to attend the hearing to respond to the appellant's testimony and to answer questions posed by the review official;
(3) If the appellant has requested a hearing, the appellant and the State agency shall be provided with at least 10 calendar days advance written notice, sent by certified mail, or its equivalent, or sent electronically by email or facsimile, of the time, date and place of the hearing;
(4) Any information on which the State agency's action was based shall be available to the appellant for inspection from the date of receipt of the request for review;
(5) The review official shall be an independent and impartial official other than, and not accountable to, any person authorized to make decisions that are subject to appeal under the provisions of this section;
(6) The review official shall make a determination based on information provided by the State agency and the appellant, and on program regulations;
(7) Within 60 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request for review, by written notice, sent by certified mail, or its equivalent, or electronically by email or facsimile, the review official shall inform the State agency and the appellant of the determination of the review official. The final determination shall take effect upon receipt of the written notice of the final decision by the school food authority;
(8) The State agency's action shall remain in effect during the appeal process; and
(9) The determination by the State review official is the final administrative determination to be afforded to the appellant.
(q)
FNS review activity.
The term “State agency” and all the provisions specified in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section refer to FNS when FNS conducts administrative reviews in accordance with § 210.29(d)(2). FNS will notify the State agency of the review findings and the need for corrective action and fiscal action. The State agency shall pursue any needed follow-up activity.
[81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 25357, June 1, 2018; 88 FR 57845, Aug. 23, 2023; 88 FR 90347, Dec. 29, 2023; 89 FR 32073, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.19
Additional responsibilities.
(a)
General Program management.
Each State agency shall provide an adequate number of consultative, technical and managerial personnel to administer programs and monitor performance in complying with all Program requirements.
(1)
Assurance of compliance for finances.
Each State agency shall ensure that school food authorities comply with the requirements to account for all revenues and expenditures of their nonprofit school food service. School food authorities shall meet the requirements for the allowability of nonprofit school food service expenditures in accordance with this part and, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable. All costs resulting from contracts that do not meet the requirements of this part are unallowable nonprofit school food service account expenses. When the school food authority fails to incorporate State agency required changes to solicitation or contract documents, all costs resulting from the subsequent contract award are unallowable charges to the nonprofit school food service account. The State agency shall ensure compliance with the requirements to limit net cash resources and shall provide for approval of net cash resources in excess of three months' average expenditures. Each State agency shall monitor, through review or audit or by other means, the net cash resources of the nonprofit school food service in each school food authority participating in the Program. In the event that net cash resources exceed 3 months' average expenditures for the school food authority's nonprofit school food service or such other amount as may be approved in accordance with this paragraph, the State agency may require the school food authority to reduce the price children are charged for lunches, in a manner that is consistent with the paid lunch equity provision in § 210.14(e) and corresponding FNS guidance, improve food quality or take other action designed to improve the nonprofit school food service. In the absence of any such action, the State agency shall make adjustments in the rate of reimbursement under the Program. Each State agency shall ensure that school food authorities comply with the requirements for pricing paid lunches and nonprogram foods as required in § 210.14(e) and § 210.14(f).
(2)
Improved management practices.
The State agency must work with the school food authority toward improving the school food authority's management practices where the State agency has found poor food service management practices leading to decreasing or low child participation, menu acceptance, or program efficiency. The State agency should provide training and technical assistance to the school food authority or direct the school food authority to places to obtain such resources, such as the Institute of Child Nutrition.
(3)
Program compliance.
Each State agency shall require that school food authorities comply with the applicable provisions of this part. The State agency shall ensure compliance through audits, administrative reviews, technical assistance, training guidance materials or by other means.
(4)
Investigations.
Each State agency shall promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of the Program, and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. State agencies shall maintain on file, evidence of such investigations and actions. FNS and OIG may make reviews or investigations at the request of the State agency or where FNS or OIG determines reviews or investigations are appropriate.
(5)
Food service management companies.
(i) The State agency must annually review and approve each contract and contract amendment, including all supporting documentation, between any school food authority and food service management company before implementation of the contract by either party to ensure compliance with all the provisions and standards set forth in this part.
(A) When the State agency develops a prototype contract for use by the school food authority that meets the provisions and standards set forth in this part, this annual review may be limited to changes made to that contract.
(B) The State agency may establish due dates for submission of the contract or contract amendment documents.
(ii) The State agency must perform a review of each school food authority that contracts with a food service management company, at least once during each 5-year period. The reviews must examine the school food authority's compliance with § 210.16 of this part.
(iii) The State agency may require all food service management companies to register with the State agency prior to contracting for food service with any school food authority in the State.
(iv) State agencies must provide assistance to school food authorities upon request to assure compliance with the requirements for contracting with a food service management company.
(b)
Donated food distribution information.
Information on schools eligible to receive donated foods available under section 6 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755) shall be prepared each year by the State agency with accompanying information on the average daily number of lunches to be served in such schools. This information shall be prepared as early as practicable each school year and forwarded no later than September 1 to the Distributing agency. The State agency shall be responsible for promptly revising the information to reflect additions or deletions of eligible schools, and for providing such adjustments in participation as are determined necessary by the State agency. Schools shall be consulted by the Distributing agency with respect to the needs of such schools relating to the manner of selection and distribution of commodity assistance.
(c)
Fiscal action.
State agencies are responsible for ensuring Program integrity at the school food authority level. State agencies must take fiscal action against school food authorities for Claims for Reimbursement that are not properly payable, including, if warranted, the disallowance of funds for failure to take corrective action to comply with requirements in parts 210, 215, and 220 of this chapter. In taking fiscal action, State agencies must use their own procedures within the constraints of this part and must maintain all records pertaining to action taken under this section. The State agency may refer to FNS for assistance in making a claim determination under this part.
(1)
Definition.
Fiscal action includes, but is not limited to, the recovery of overpayment through direct assessment or offset of future claims, disallowance of overclaims as reflected in unpaid Claims for Reimbursement, submission of a revised Claim for Reimbursement, and correction of records to ensure that unfiled Claims for Reimbursement are corrected when filed. Fiscal action also includes disallowance of funds for failure to take corrective action to meet the meal requirements in parts 210, 215, and 220 of this chapter, including the disallowance of performance-based cash assistance described in § 210.4(b)(1).
(2)
General principles.
When taking fiscal action, State agencies shall consider the following:
(i) The State agency shall identify the school food authority's correct entitlement and take fiscal action when any school food authority claims or receives more Federal funds than earned under § 210.7 of this part. In order to take fiscal action, the State agency shall identify accurate counts of reimbursable meals through available data, if possible. In the absence of reliable data, the State agency shall reconstruct the meal accounts in accordance with procedures established by FNS.
(ii) Unless otherwise specified under § 210.18(l) of this part, fiscal action shall be extended back to the beginning of the school year or that point in time during the current school year when the infraction first occurred, as applicable. Based on the severity and longevity of the problem, the State agency may extend fiscal action back to previous school years, as applicable. The State agency shall ensure that any Claim for Reimbursement, filed subsequent to the reviews conducted under § 210.18 and prior to the implementation of corrective action, is limited to meals eligible for reimbursement under this part.
(iii) In taking fiscal action, State agencies shall assume that children determined by the reviewer to be incorrectly approved for free and reduced
price meals participated at the same rate as correctly approved children in the corresponding meal category.
(3)
Failure to collect.
If a State agency fails to disallow a claim or recover an overpayment from a school food authority, as described in this section, FNS will notify the State agency that a claim may be assessed against the State agency. In all such cases, the State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence concerning overpayment. If after considering all available information, FNS determines that a claim is warranted, FNS will assess a claim in the amount of such overpayment against the State agency. If the State agency fails to pay any such demand for funds promptly, FNS will reduce the State agency's Letter of Credit by the sum due in accordance with FNS' existing offset procedures for Letter of Credit. In such event, the State agency shall provide the funds necessary to maintain Program operations at the level of earnings from a source other than the Program.
(4)
Interest charge.
If an agreement cannot be reached with the State agency for payment of its debts or for offset of debts on its current Letter of Credit, interest will be charged against the State agency from the date the demand letter was sent, at the rate established by the Secretary of Treasury.
(5)
Use of recovered payment.
The amounts recovered by the State agency from school food authorities may be utilized during the fiscal year for which the funds were initially available, first, to make payments to school food authorities for the purposes of the Program; and second, to repay any State funds expended in the reimbursement of claims under the Program and not otherwise repaid. Any amounts recovered which are not so utilized shall be returned to FNS in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(6)
Exceptions.
The State agency need not disallow payment or collect an overpayment when any review or audit reveals that a school food authority is approving applications which indicate that the households' incomes are within the Income Eligibility Guidelines issued by the Department or the applications contain Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or TANF case numbers or FDPIR case numbers or other FDPIR identifiers but the applications are missing the information specified in paragraph (1)(ii) of the definition of
Documentation
in § 245.2 of this chapter.
(7)
Claims adjustment.
FNS will have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claim arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. FNS will also have the authority to waive such claims if FNS determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the Program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.
(d)
Management evaluations.
Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations of all State agency Program operations and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits of all State agency Program operations. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and disbursement of funds under the Program and records of any claim compromised in accordance with this paragraph, upon a reasonable request by FNS, OIG, or the Comptroller General of the United States. FNS and OIG retain the right to visit schools and OIG also has the right to make audits of the records and operations of any school. In conducting management evaluations, reviews, or audits in a fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard an overpayment if the overpayment does not exceed $600. A State agency may establish, through State law, regulation or procedure, an alternate disregard threshold that does not exceed $600. This disregard may be made once per each management evaluation, review, or audit per Program within a fiscal year. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
(e)
Additional requirements.
Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional requirements for participation in the
Program which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part.
(f)
Cooperation with the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
On an annual basis, the State agency must provide the State agency which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program with a list of all schools in the State participating in the National School Lunch Program in which 50 percent or more of enrolled children have been determined eligible for free or reduced price meals as of the last operating day of the previous October, or other month specified by the State agency. The lists must be provided by February 1 of each year or, if data is based on a month other than October, within 90 calendar days following the end of the month designated by the State agency. The State agency may provide updated free and reduced price enrollment data on individual schools to the State agency which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program only when unusual circumstances render the initial data obsolete. In addition, the State agency must provide the current list, upon request, to sponsoring organizations of day care homes participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 210.19, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 210.20
Reporting and recordkeeping.
(a)
Reporting summary.
Participating State agencies shall submit forms and reports to FNS to demonstrate compliance with Program requirements. The reports include but are not limited to:
(1) Requests for cash to make reimbursement payments to school food authorities as required under § 210.5(a);
(2) Information on the amounts of Federal Program funds expended and obligated to date (FNS-777) as required under § 210.5(d);
(3) Statewide totals on Program participation (FNS-10) as required under § 210.5(d);
(4) Information on State funds provided by the State to meet the State matching requirements (FNS-13) specified under § 210.17(g);
(5) Results of reviews and audits;
(6) The prices of paid lunches charged by each school food authority; and
(7) For each local educational agency required to conduct a second review of applications under § 245.11 of this chapter, the number of free and reduced price applications subject to a second review, the results of the reviews including the number and percentage of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed, and a summary of the types of changes made.
(b)
Recordkeeping summary.
Participating State agencies are required to maintain records to demonstrate compliance with Program requirements. The records include but are not limited to:
(1) Accounting records and source documents to control the receipt, custody and disbursement of Federal Program funds as required under § 210.5(a);
(2) Documentation supporting all school food authority claims paid by the State agency as required under § 210.5(d);
(3) Documentation to support the amount the State agency reported having used for State revenue matching as required under § 210.17(h);
(4) Records supporting the State agency's review of net cash resources as required under § 210.19(a);
(5) Reports on the results of investigations of complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with Program operations as required under § 210.19(a)
(6) Records of all reviews and audits, including records of action taken to correct Program violations; and records of fiscal action taken, including documentation of recoveries made;
(7) Documentation of action taken to disallow improper claims submitted by school food authorities, as required by § 210.19(c) and as determined through claims processing, resulting from actions such as reviews, audits and USDA audits;
(8) Records of USDA audit findings, State agency's and school food authorities' responses to them and of corrective action taken as required by § 210.22(a);
(9) Records pertaining to civil rights responsibilities as defined under § 210.23(b);
(10) Records supplied by the school food authorities showing the number of food safety inspections obtained by schools for the current and three most recent school years.
(11) Records showing compliance with the requirements in § 210.14(e)(5) and records supplied annually by school food authorities showing paid meal prices charged as required by § 210.14(e)(6);
(12) Records to document compliance with the requirements in § 210.14(f); and
(13) Records for a three year period to demonstrate compliance with the professional standards for State directors of school nutrition programs established in § 235.11(h) of this chapter.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 32948, July 17, 1991; 56 FR 55527, Oct. 28, 1991; 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999; 70 FR 34630, June 15, 2005; 76 FR 35318, June 17, 2011; 78 FR 13449, Feb. 28, 2013; 79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014; 80 FR 11092, Mar. 2, 2015; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016; 88 FR 57847, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 32074, Apr. 25, 2024]

# Subpart E—State Agency and School Food Authority Responsibilities
§ 210.21
Procurement.
(a)
General.
State agencies and school food authorities shall comply with the requirements of this part and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, which implement the applicable requirements, concerning the procurement of all goods and services with nonprofit school food service account funds.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in this part and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, do not relieve the State agency or school food authority of any contractual responsibilities under its contracts. The State agency or school food authority is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes, but is not limited to source evaluation, protests, disputes, claims, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the local, State, or Federal authority that has proper jurisdiction.
(c)
Procedures.
The State agency may elect to follow either the State laws, policies and procedures as authorized by 2 CFR 200.317, or the procurement standards for other governmental grantees and all governmental subgrantees in accordance with 2 CFR 200.318 through 2 CFR 200.326. Regardless of the option selected, States must ensure that all contracts include any clauses required by Federal statutes and executive orders and that the requirements 2 CFR 200.236 and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Award are followed. A school food authority may use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and local laws and regulations, provided that procurements made with nonprofit school food service account funds adhere to the standards set forth in this part and in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, as applicable. School food authority procedures must include a written code of standards of conduct meeting the minimum standards of 2 CFR 200.318, as applicable.
(1)
Pre-issuance review requirement.
The State agency may impose a pre-issuance review requirement on a school food authority's proposed procurement. The school food authority must make available, upon request by the State agency, its procurement documents, including but not limited to solicitation documents, specifications, evaluation criteria, procurement procedures, proposed contracts and contract terms. School food authorities shall comply with State agency requests for changes to procurement procedures and solicitation and contract documents to ensure that, to the State agency's satisfaction, such procedures and documents reflect applicable procurement and contract requirements and the requirements of this part.
(2)
Prototype solicitation documents and contracts.
The school food authority must obtain the State agency's prior
written approval for any change made to prototype solicitation or contract documents before issuing the revised solicitation documents or execution of the revised contract.
(3)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a procurement failing to meet the requirements of this part.
(d)
Buy American
—(1)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this paragraph (d):
(i)
Domestic commodity or product
means:
(A) An agricultural commodity that is produced in the United States; and
(B) A food product that is processed in the United States substantially using agricultural commodities that are produced in the United States.
(ii)
Substantially using agriculture commodities that are produced in the United States
means over 51 percent of a food product must consist of agricultural commodities that were grown domestically.
(2)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a school food authority must purchase, to the maximum extent practicable, domestic commodities or products.
(3)
Required language.
School food authorities must include language requiring the purchase of foods that meet the Buy American requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section in all procurement procedures, solicitations, and contracts.
(4)
Limitations.
Paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section apply only to:
(i) A school food authority located in the contiguous United States; and
(ii) A purchase of domestic commodity or product for the school lunch program under this part.
(5)
Exceptions.
The purchase of foods not meeting the definition in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is only permissible when the following criteria are met:
(i) The school food authority determines that one of the following limited exceptions is met:
(A) The product is listed in the Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) at 48 CFR 25.104 and/or is not produced or manufactured in the U.S. in sufficient and reasonably available quantities of a satisfactory quality; or
(B) Competitive bids reveal the cost of a United States product is significantly higher than the non-domestic product.
(ii) Non-domestic food purchases (those that do not meet the definition of domestic commodity or product, as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) must not exceed the following caps by the established deadlines:
(A) By July 1, 2025, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 10 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(B) By July 1, 2028, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 8 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(C) By July 1, 2031, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 5 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(iii) School food authorities must maintain documentation, except when the item purchased is found on the FAR at 48 CFR 25.104 when using an exception under paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.
(iv) School food authorities must maintain documentation, to demonstrate that when using an exception under paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section their non-domestic food purchases do not exceed the annual threshold specified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section.
(6)
Harvested fish.
To meet the definition of a domestic commodity or product, harvested fish must meet the following requirements:
(i) Farmed fish must be harvested within the United States or any territory or possession of the United States; and
(ii) Wild caught fish must be harvested within the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States or by a United States flagged vessel.
(7)
Applicability to Hawaii.
Paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies to school food authorities in Hawaii with respect to domestic commodities or products that are produced in Hawaii in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of
meals provided under the school lunch program under this part.
(8)
Temporary accommodation.
For school food authorities that demonstrate they cannot meet the threshold, State agencies may provide an accommodation for temporary relief from the requirement as the State agency works with the school food authority to increase domestic purchases.
(e)
Restrictions on the sale of milk.
A school food authority participating in the Program, or a person approved by a school participating in the Program, must not directly or indirectly restrict the sale or marketing of fluid milk (as described in § 210.10(d)(4) of this chapter) at any time or in any place on school premises or at any school-sponsored event.
(f)
Cost reimbursable contracts
—(1)
Required provisions.
The school food authority must include the following provisions in all cost reimbursable contracts, including contracts with cost reimbursable provisions, and in solicitation documents prepared to obtain offers for such contracts:
(i) Allowable costs will be paid from the nonprofit school food service account to the contractor net of all discounts, rebates and other applicable credits accruing to or received by the contractor or any assignee under the contract, to the extent those credits are allocable to the allowable portion of the costs billed to the school food authority;
(ii)(A) The contractor must separately identify for each cost submitted for payment to the school food authority the amount of that cost that is allowable (can be paid from the nonprofit school food service account) and the amount that is unallowable (cannot be paid from the nonprofit school food service account); or
(B) The contractor must exclude all unallowable costs from its billing documents and certify that only allowable costs are submitted for payment and records have been established that maintain the visibility of unallowable costs, including directly associated costs in a manner suitable for contract cost determination and verification;
(iii) The contractor's determination of its allowable costs must be made in compliance with the applicable Departmental and Program regulations and Office of Management and Budget cost circulars;
(iv) The contractor must identify the amount of each discount, rebate and other applicable credit on bills and invoices presented to the school food authority for payment and individually identify the amount as a discount, rebate, or in the case of other applicable credits, the nature of the credit. If approved by the State agency, the school food authority may permit the contractor to report this information on a less frequent basis than monthly, but no less frequently than annually;
(v) The contractor must identify the method by which it will report discounts, rebates and other applicable credits allocable to the contract that are not reported prior to conclusion of the contract; and
(vi) The contractor must maintain documentation of costs and discounts, rebates and other applicable credits, and must furnish such documentation upon request to the school food authority, the State agency, or the Department.
(2)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a cost reimbursable contract that fails to include the requirements of this section, nor may any expenditure be made from the nonprofit school food service account that permits or results in the contractor receiving payments in excess of the contractor's actual, net allowable costs.
(g)
Geographic preference.
(1) A school food authority participating in the Program, as well as State agencies making purchases on behalf of such school food authorities, may apply a geographic preference when procuring unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products, including the use of “locally grown”, “locally raised”, or “locally caught” as procurement specifications or selection criteria for unprocessed or minimally processed food items. When utilizing the geographic preference to procure such products, the school food authority making the purchase or the State agency making purchases on behalf of such school food authorities have the discretion to determine the local area
to which the geographic preference option will be applied, so long as there are an appropriate number of qualified firms able to compete;
(2) For the purpose of applying the optional geographic procurement preference in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, “unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products” means only those agricultural products that retain their inherent character. The effects of the following food handling and preservation techniques shall not be considered as changing an agricultural product into a product of a different kind or character: Cooling; refrigerating; freezing; size adjustment made by peeling, slicing, dicing, cutting, chopping, shucking, and grinding; forming ground products into patties without any additives or fillers; drying/dehydration; washing; packaging (such as placing eggs in cartons), vacuum packing and bagging (such as placing vegetables in bags or combining two or more types of vegetables or fruits in a single package); the addition of ascorbic acid or other preservatives to prevent oxidation of produce; butchering livestock and poultry; cleaning fish; and the pasteurization of milk.
(h)
Procurement training.
(1) State directors of school nutrition programs, State directors of distributing agencies, and school nutrition program directors, management, and staff tasked with National School Lunch Program procurement responsibilities must complete annual training on Federal procurement standards annually.
(2) Procurement training may count towards the professional standards training standards at § 210.30(g) of this part and § 235.11(h) of this chapter.
(3) State agencies and school food authorities must retain records to document compliance with the requirement in this section.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999; 70 FR 70033, Nov. 21, 2005; 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 61491, Oct. 31, 2007; 76 FR 22607, Apr. 22, 2011; 77 FR 4153, Jan. 26, 2012; 81 FR 66489, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57847, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 32074, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.22
Audits.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and school food authority levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI (Compliance Supplement) and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b)
Audit procedure.
These requirements call for organization-wide financial and compliance audits to ascertain whether financial operations are conducted properly; financial statements are presented fairly; recipients and subrecipients comply with the laws and regulations that affect the expenditures of Federal funds; recipients and subrecipients have established procedures to meet the objectives of federally assisted programs; and recipients and subrecipients are providing accurate and reliable information concerning grant funds. States and school food authorities shall use their own procedures to arrange for and prescribe the scope of independent audits, provided that such audits comply with the requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66488, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 210.23
Other responsibilities.
(a)
Free and reduced price lunches and afterschool snacks.
State agencies and school food authorities must ensure that lunches and afterschool snacks are made available free or at a reduced price to all children who are determined by the school food authority to be eligible for such benefits. The determination of a child's eligibility for free or reduced price lunches and afterschool snacks must made in accordance with part 245 of this chapter.
(b)
Civil rights.
In the operation of the Program, no child shall be denied benefits or be otherwise discriminated against because of race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability. State agencies and school food authorities shall comply with the requirements of: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; title IX of the Education Amendments
of 1972; section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; the Age Discrimination Act of 1975; Department of Agriculture regulations on nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b); and FNS Instruction 113-1.
(c)
Retention of records.
State agencies and school food authorities may retain necessary records in their original form or on microfilm. State agency records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the date of submission of the final Financial Status Report for the fiscal year. School food authority records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after submission of the final Claim for Reimbursement for the fiscal year. In either case, if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the 3-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(d)
Program evaluations.
States, State agencies, local educational agencies, school food authorities, schools and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 42489, Aug. 10, 1993; 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999; 72 FR 24183, May 2, 2007; 76 FR 22797, Apr. 25, 2011; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32075, Apr. 25, 2024]

# Subpart F—Additional Provisions
§ 210.24
Withholding payments.
In accordance with Departmental regulations at 2 CFR 200.338 through 200.342, the State agency shall withhold Program payments, in whole or in part, to any school food authority which has failed to comply with the provisions of this part. Program payments shall be withheld until the school food authority takes corrective action satisfactory to the State agency, or gives evidence that such corrective action will be taken, or until the State agency terminates the grant in accordance with § 210.25 of this part. Subsequent to the State agency's acceptance of the corrective actions, payments will be released for any lunches served in accordance with the provisions of this part during the period the payments were withheld.
[56 FR 32948, July 17, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 61492, Oct. 31, 2007; 81 FR 66488, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 210.25
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
Whenever it is determined that a State agency has materially failed to comply with the provisions of this part, or with FNS guidelines and instructions, FNS may suspend or terminate the Program in whole, or in part, or take any other action as may be available and appropriate. A State agency may also terminate the Program by mutual agreement with FNS. FNS and the State agency shall comply with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 concerning grant suspension, termination and closeout procedures. Furthermore, the State agency shall apply these provisions, as applicable, to suspension or termination of the Program in school food authorities.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988. Redesignated at 56 FR 32948, July 17, 1991, and amended at 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66488, 66490, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 210.26
Penalties and fines.
(a)
Penalties.
Whomever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part whether received directly or indirectly from the Department will, if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined no more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both; or if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 1 year or both. Whomever receives, conceals, or retains for personal use or gain, funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, will be subject to the same penalties.
(b)
Fines.
(1) The State agency may establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that
the school food authority or a school under its agreement has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of this Program or a Child Nutrition Program under parts 225 or 226 of this chapter;
(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the school food authority or school had been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements under this part or under parts 225 or 226 of this chapter.
(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that the school food authority or school meets the criteria set forth under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Funds used to pay fines established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. The State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the school food authority or school for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data is available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year.
(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing the fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the school food authority written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:
(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;
(ii) Inform the school food authority that it may appeal the fine and advise the school food authority of the appeal procedures established under § 210.18(p);
(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the school food authority not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.
(5) Any school food authority subject to a fine under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the school food authority must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any school food authority seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.
(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.
(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against a school food authority and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.
[88 FR 57847, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 210.27
Educational prohibitions.
In carrying out the provisions of the Act, the Department shall not impose any requirements with respect to teaching personnel, curriculum, instructions, methods of instruction, or materials of instruction in any school as a condition for participation in the Program.
[53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988. Redesignated at 56 FR 32948, July 17, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 210.28
Pilot project exemptions.
Those State agencies or school food authorities selected for the pilot projects mandated under section 18(d) of the Act may be exempted by the Department from some or all of the counting and free and reduced price application requirements of this part and 7 CFR part 245, as necessary, to conduct an approved pilot project. Additionally, those schools selected for pilot projects that also operate the School Breakfast Program (7 CFR part 220) and/or the Special Milk Program for Children (7 CFR part 215), may be exempted from the counting and free and reduced price application requirements mandated under these Programs. The Department shall notify the appropriate State agencies and
school food authorities of its determination of which requirements are exempted after the Department's selection of pilot projects.
[55 FR 41504, Oct. 12, 1990. Redesignated at 56 FR 32948, July 17, 1991, And further redesignated at 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 210.29
Management evaluations.
(a)
Management evaluations.
FNS will conduct a comprehensive management evaluation of each State agency's administration of the National School Lunch Program.
(b)
Basis for evaluations.
FNS will evaluate all aspects of State agency management of the Program using tools such as State agency reviews as required under § 210.18 of this part; reviews conducted by FNS in accordance with § 210.18 of this part; FNS reviews of school food authorities and schools authorized under § 210.19(a)(4) of this part; follow-up actions taken by the State agency to correct violations found during reviews; FNS observations of State agency reviews; and audit reports.
(c)
Scope of management evaluations.
The management evaluation will determine whether the State agency has taken steps to ensure school food authority compliance with Program regulations, and whether the State agency is administering the Program in accordance with Program requirements and good management practices.
(1)
Local compliance.
FNS will evaluate whether the State agency has actively taken steps to ensure that school food authorities comply with the provisions of this part.
(2)
State agency compliance.
FNS will evaluate whether the State agency has fulfilled its State level responsibilities, including, but not limited to the following areas: use of Federal funds; reporting and recordkeeping; agreements with school food authorities; review of food service management company contracts; review of the claims payment process; implementation of the State agency's monitoring responsibilities; initiation and completion of corrective action; recovery of overpayments; disallowance of claims that are not properly payable; withholding of Program payments; oversight of school food authority procurement activities; training and guidance activities; civil rights; and compliance with the State Administrative Expense Funds requirements as specified in 7 CFR part 235.
(d)
School food authority reviews.
FNS will examine State agency administration of the Program by reviewing local Program operations. When conducting these reviews under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, FNS will follow all the administrative review requirements specified in § 210.18(a)-(h) of this part. When FNS conducts reviews, the findings will be sent to the State agency to ensure all the needed follow-up activity occurs. The State agency will, in all cases, be invited to accompany FNS reviewers.
(1)
Observation of State agency reviews.
FNS may observe the State agency conduct of any review as required under this part. At State agency request, FNS may assist in the conduct of the review.
(2)
Section 210.18 reviews.
FNS will conduct administrative reviews in accordance with § 210.18(a)-(h) of this part which will count toward meeting the State agency responsibilities identified under § 210.18 of this part.
(3)
School food authority appeal of FNS findings.
When administrative or follow-up review activity conducted by FNS in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section results in the denial of all or part of a Claim for Reimbursement or withholding of payment, a school food authority may appeal the FNS findings by filing a written request with the Food and Nutrition Service in accordance with the appeal procedures specified in this paragraph (d)(3):
(i) The written request for a review of the record shall be postmarked within 15 calendar days of the date the appellant received the notice of the denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement or withholding payment and the envelope containing the request shall be prominently marked “REQUEST FOR REVIEW”. FNS will acknowledge the receipt of the request for appeal within 10 calendar days. The acknowledgement will include the name and address of the FNS Administrative Review Officer (ARO) reviewing the case. FNS will also notify the State agency of the request for appeal.
(ii) The appellant may refute the action specified in the notice in person and by written documentation to the ARO. In order to be considered, written documentation must be filed with the ARO not later than 30 calendar days after the appellant received the notice. The appellant may retain legal counsel, or may be represented by another person. A hearing shall be held by the ARO in addition to, or in lieu of, a review of written information submitted by the appellant only if the appellant so specifies in the letter of request for review. Failure of the appellant school food authority's representative to appear at a scheduled hearing shall constitute the appellant school food authority's waiver of the right to a personal appearance before the ARO, unless the ARO agrees to reschedule the hearing. A representative of FNS shall be allowed to attend the hearing to respond to the appellant's testimony and to answer questions posed by the ARO;
(iii) If the appellant has requested a hearing, the appellant shall be provided with a least 10 calendar days advance written notice, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the time, date, and place of the hearing;
(iv) Any information on which FNS's action was based shall be available to the appellant for inspection from the date of receipt of the request for review;
(v) The ARO shall be an independent and impartial official other than, and not accountable to, any person authorized to make decisions that are subject to appeal under the provisions of this section;
(vi) The ARO shall make a determination based on information provided by FNS and the appellant, and on Program regulations;
(vii) Within 60 calendar days of the receipt of the request for review, by written notice, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, the ARO shall inform FNS, the State agency and the appellant of the determination of the ARO. The final determination shall take effect upon receipt of the written notice of the final decision by the school food authority;
(viii) The action being appealed shall remain in effect during the appeal process;
(ix) The determination by the ARO is the final administrative determination to be afforded to the appellant.
(4)
Coordination with State agency.
FNS will coordinate school food authority selection with the State agency to ensure that no unintended overlap exists and to ensure reviews are conducted in a consistent manner.
(e)
Management evaluation findings.
FNS will consider the results of all its review activity within each State, including school food authority reviews, in performing management evaluations and issuing management evaluation reports. FNS will communicate the findings of the management evaluation to appropriate State agency personnel in an exit conference. Subsequent to the exit conference, the State agency will be notified in writing of the management evaluation findings and any needed corrective actions or fiscal sanctions in accordance with the provisions § 210.25 of this part and/or 7 CFR part 235.
[56 FR 32949, July 17, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 38586, Aug. 26, 1992. Redesignated at 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32075, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.30
School nutrition program professional standards.
(a)
General.
School food authorities that operate the National School Lunch Program, or the School Breakfast Program (part 220 of this chapter), must establish and implement professional standards for school nutrition program directors, managers, and staff, as defined in § 210.2.
(b)
Minimum standards for all school nutrition program directors.
Each school food authority must ensure that all newly hired school nutrition program directors meet minimum hiring standards and ensure that all new and existing directors have completed the minimum annual training/education requirements for school nutrition program directors, as set forth below:
(1)
Hiring standards.
All school nutrition program directors hired on or after July 1, 2015, must meet the following minimum educational requirements, as applicable:
(i)
School nutrition program directors with local educational agency enrollment of 2,499 students or fewer.
Directors must meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section. However, a State agency may approve a school food authority to use the nonprofit school food service account to pay the salary of a school nutrition program director who does not meet the hiring standards herein so long as the school food authority is complying with a State agency-approved plan to ensure the director will meet the requirements.
(A) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with an academic major or concentration in food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field;
(B) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with any academic major or area of concentration, and either a State-recognized certificate for school nutrition directors, or at least one year of relevant food service experience. At the discretion of the State agency, and on an individual basis, documented relevant food service experience may be unpaid;
(C) An associate's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with an academic major or area of concentration in food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field and at least one year of relevant food service experience. At the discretion of the State agency, and on an individual basis, documented relevant food service experience may be unpaid; or
(D) A high school diploma or equivalency (such as the general educational development diploma), and at least three years of relevant food service experience. At the discretion of the State agency, and on an individual basis, documented relevant food service experience may be unpaid. Directors hired under this criterion are strongly encouraged to work toward attaining an associate's degree in an academic major in at least one of the fields listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
School nutrition program directors with local educational agency enrollment of 2,500 to 9,999 students.
Directors must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.
(A) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with an academic major or concentration in food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field;
(B) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with any academic major or area of concentration, and a State-recognized certificate for school nutrition directors;
(C) A bachelor's degree in any academic major and at least two years of relevant experience in school nutrition programs; or
(D) An associate's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with an academic major or area of concentration in food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field and at least two years of relevant school nutrition program experience. Directors hired with an associate's degree are strongly encouraged to work toward attaining a bachelor's degree in an academic major in the fields listed in this paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D).
(iii)
School nutrition program directors with local educational agency enrollment of 10,000 or more students.
Directors must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(A) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with an academic major or area of concentration in food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field;
(B) A bachelor's degree, or equivalent educational experience, as determined by the State agency, with any academic major or area of concentration,
and a State-recognized certificate for school nutrition directors; or
(C) A bachelor's degree in any major and at least five years of experience in management of school nutrition programs.
(D) School food authorities are strongly encouraged to seek out individuals who possess a master's degree or are willing to work toward a master's degree in the fields listed in this paragraph. At least one year of management experience, preferably in school nutrition, is strongly recommended. It is also strongly recommended that directors have at least three credit hours at the university level in food service management and at least three credit hours in nutritional sciences at the time of hire.
(iv)
Exceptions to the hiring standards.
(A) For a local educational agency with less than 500 students, the State agency may approve the hire of a director who meets one of the educational criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(B) through (D) of this section but has less than the required years of relevant food service experience.
(B) For a local educational agency with 2,500 or more students, the State agency may approve the hire of a director who does not meet the educational criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) or paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable, but who has at least 10 years of school nutrition program experience.
(C) Acting school nutrition program directors are not required to meet the hiring standards established in this paragraph (b)(1) of this section; however, the State agency may require acting school nutrition program directors expected to serve for more than 30 business days to meet the hiring standards established in established in this paragraph (b)(1).
(v)
School nutrition program directors for all local educational agency sizes.
All school nutrition program directors, for all local educational agency sizes, must have completed at least eight hours of food safety training within five years prior to their starting date or complete eight hours of food safety training within 30 calendar days of their starting date. At the discretion of the State agency, all school nutrition program directors, regardless of their starting date, may be required to complete eight hours of food safety training every five years.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Continuing education/training standards for all school nutrition program directors.
Each school year, the school food authority must ensure that all school nutrition program directors (including acting directors, at the discretion of the State agency), complete 12 hours of annual continuing education/training. The annual training must include, but is not limited to, administrative practices (including training in application, certification, verification, meal counting, and meal claiming procedures), as applicable, and any other specific topics identified by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues. Continuing education/training required under this paragraph (c) is in addition to the food safety training required in the first year of employment under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.
(d)
Continuing education/training standards for all school nutrition program managers.
Each school year, the school food authority must ensure that all school nutrition program managers have completed 10 hours of annual continuing education/training. The annual training must include, but is not limited to, the following topics, as applicable:
(1) Administrative practices (including training in application, certification, verification, meal counting, and meal claiming procedures);
(2) The identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service;
(3) Nutrition;
(4) Health and safety standards; and
(5) Any specific topics identified by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues.
(e)
Continuing education/training standards for all staff with responsibility for school nutrition programs.
Each school year, the school food authority must ensure that all staff with responsibility for school nutrition programs that work an average of at least 20 hours per week, other than school nutrition program directors and managers, completes 6 hours of annual training in areas applicable to their
jobs. Part-time staff working an average of less than 20 hours per week must complete 4 hours of annual training. The annual training must include, but is not limited to, the following topics, as applicable to their positions and responsibilities:
(1) Free and reduced price eligibility;
(2) Application, certification, and verification procedures;
(3) The identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service;
(4) Nutrition;
(5) Health and safety standards; and
(6) Any specific topics identified by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues.
(f)
Summary of required minimum continued education/training standards.
The annual training requirements for school nutrition program directors, managers, and staff are summarized in the following table.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
f
)—Summary of Required Annual Training
1 2
School Nutrition Program Directors
Each year, at least 12 hours of annual education/training.
Includes topics such as:
• Administrative practices (including training in application, certification, verification, meal counting, and meal claiming procedures).
• Any specific topics required by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity and other critical issues.
This required continuing education/training is in addition to the food safety training required in the first year of employment, or for all school nutrition program directors if determined by the State agency.
School Nutrition Program Managers
Each year, at least 10 hours of annual education/training.
Includes topics such as:
• Administrative practices (including training in application, certification, verification, meal counting, and meal claiming procedures).
• The identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service.
• Nutrition, health, and safety standards.
• Any specific topics required by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues.
School Nutrition Program Staff
Each year, at least 6 hours of annual education/training.
Includes topics such as:
• Free and reduced price eligibility.
• Application, certification, and verification procedures.
• The identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service.
• Nutrition, health, and safety standards.
• Any specific topics required by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues.
This requirement applies to staff, other than directors and managers, who work at least 20 hours per week.
Acting and Temporary Staff, Substitutes, and Volunteers
At the discretion of the State agency, acting and temporary staff, substitutes, and volunteers must complete training in one or more of the following topics within 30 calendar days of their start date:
• Free and reduced price eligibility.
• Application, certification, and verification procedures.
• The identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service.
• Nutrition, health, and safety standards.
• Any specific topics required by FNS, as needed, to address Program integrity or other critical issues.
1
School nutrition program directors, managers, and staff may carry over excess annual training hours to an immediately previous or subsequent school year and demonstrate compliance with the training requirements over a period of two school years, provided that some training hours are completed each school year.
2
Program directors, managers, and staff hired on or after January 1 of each school year must complete half of their required annual training hours by June 30 of the school year in which they were hired.
(g)
Use of food service funds for training costs.
Costs associated with annual continuing education/training required under paragraphs (b)(3), (c) and (d) of this section are allowed provided they are reasonable, allocable, and necessary in accordance with the cost principles set forth in 2 CFR part 225, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments (OMB Circular A-87). However, food service funds must not be used to pay for the cost of college credits incurred by an individual to meet the hiring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) and (b)(2) of this section.
(h)
School food authority oversight.
Each school year, the school food authority director must document compliance with the requirements of this section for all staff with responsibility for school nutrition programs, including directors, managers, and staff. Documentation must be adequate to establish, to the State's satisfaction during administrative reviews, that employees are meeting the minimum professional standards. The school food authority must certify that:
(1) The school nutrition program director meets the hiring standards and training requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Each employee has completed the applicable training requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section no later than the end of each school year.
(3) Each employee tasked with Program procurement has completed annual procurement training, as required under § 210.21(h), by the end of each school year.
[80 FR 11092, Mar. 2, 2015; 80 FR 26181, May 7, 2015. Redesignated at 81 FR 50169, July 29, 2016 and further redesignated and amended at 81 FR 93792, Dec. 22, 2016; 84 FR 6959, Mar. 1, 2019; 84 FR 8247, Mar. 7, 2019; 88 FR 57848, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 32075, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 210.31
Local school wellness policy.
(a)
General.
Each local educational agency must establish a local school wellness policy for all schools participating in the National School Lunch Program and/or School Breakfast Program under the jurisdiction of the local educational agency. The local school wellness policy is a written plan that includes methods to promote student wellness, prevent and reduce childhood obesity, and provide assurance that school meals and other food and beverages sold and otherwise made available on the school campus during the school day are consistent with applicable minimum Federal standards.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
School campus
means the term as defined in § 210.11(a)(4).
(2)
School day
means the term as defined in § 210.11(a)(5).
(c)
Content of the plan.
At a minimum, local school wellness policies must contain:
(1) Specific goals for nutrition promotion and education, physical activity, and other school-based activities that promote student wellness. In developing these goals, local educational agencies must review and consider evidence-based strategies and techniques;
(2) Standards for all foods and beverages provided, but not sold, to students during the school day on each participating school campus under the jurisdiction of the local educational agency;
(3) Standards and nutrition guidelines for all foods and beverages sold to students during the school day on each participating school campus under the jurisdiction of the local educational agency that;
(i) Are consistent with applicable requirements set forth under §§ 210.10 and 220.8 of this chapter;
(ii) Are consistent with the nutrition standards set forth under § 210.11;
(iii) Permit marketing on the school campus during the school day of only those foods and beverages that meet the nutrition standards under § 210.11; and
(iv) Promote student health and reduce childhood obesity.
(4) Identification of the position of the LEA or school official(s) or school official(s) responsible for the implementation and oversight of the local school wellness policy to ensure each school's compliance with the policy;
(5) A description of the manner in which parents, students, representatives of the school food authority, teachers of physical education, school health professionals, the school board, school administrators, and the general public are provided an opportunity to participate in the development, implementation, and periodic review and update of the local school wellness policy; and
(6) A description of the plan for measuring the implementation of the local school wellness policy, and for reporting local school wellness policy content and implementation issues to the public, as required in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(d)
Public involvement and public notification.
Each local educational agency must:
(1) Permit parents, students, representatives of the school food authority, teachers of physical education, school health professionals, the school board, school administrators, and the general public to participate in the development, implementation, and periodic review and update of the local school wellness policy;
(2) Inform the public about the content and implementation of the local school wellness policy, and make the policy and any updates to the policy available to the public on an annual basis;
(3) Inform the public about progress toward meeting the goals of the local school wellness policy and compliance with the local school wellness policy by making the triennial assessment, as required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, available to the public in an accessible and easily understood manner.
(e)
Implementation assessments and updates.
Each local educational agency must:
(1) Designate one or more local educational agency officials or school officials to ensure that each participating school complies with the local school wellness policy;
(2) At least once every three years, assess schools' compliance with the local school wellness policy, and make assessment results available to the public. The assessment must measure the implementation of the local school wellness policy, and include:
(i) The extent to which schools under the jurisdiction of the local educational agency are in compliance with the local school wellness policy;
(ii) The extent to which the local educational agency's local school wellness policy compares to model local school wellness policies; and
(iii) A description of the progress made in attaining the goals of the local school wellness policy.
(3) Make appropriate updates or modifications to the local school wellness policy, based on the triennial assessment.
(f)
Recordkeeping requirement.
Each local educational agency must retain records to document compliance with the requirements of this section. These records include but are not limited to:
(1) The written local school wellness policy;
(2) Documentation demonstrating compliance with community involvement requirements, including requirements to make the local school wellness policy and triennial assessments available to the public as required in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(3) Documentation of the triennial assessment of the local school wellness policy for each school under its jurisdiction.
[81 FR 51069, July 29, 2016. Redesignated at 81 FR 93792, Dec. 22, 2016]
§ 210.32
Program information.
Persons seeking information about this Program should contact their State administering agency or the appropriate FNSRO. The FNS website has contact information for State agencies at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/contacts
and FNSROs at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-regional-offices.
[88 FR 57848, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 210.33
OMB control numbers.
The following control numbers have been assigned to the information collection requirements in 7 CFR part 210 by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96-511.
7 CFR section where
requirements
are described
Current OMB control No.
210.3(b)
0584-0067
210.4(b)
0584-0002
210.5(d)
0584-0006; 0584-0002; 0584-0067; 0584-0567 (to be merged with 0584-0006)
210.7
0584-0567 (to be merged with 0584-0006)
210.8
0584-0284; 0584-0006
210.9
0584-0006
210.10
0584-0006; 0584-0494
210.11
0584-0576 (to be merged with 0584-0006)
210.13
0584-0006
210.14
0584-0006
210.15
0584-0006
210.17
0584-0075
210.18
0584-0006
210.19
0584-0006
210.20
0584-0006; 0584-0002; 0584-0067
210.23
0584-0006
[80 FR 11092, Mar. 2, 2015. Redesignated at 81 FR 50169, July 29, 2016]
§ 210.34
Seamless Summer Option non-congregate meal service.
A school food authority operating the Seamless Summer Option in a rural area may be approved to offer a non-congregate meal service consistent with that established in part 225 of this chapter. Such school food authorities must comply with the non-congregate meal service provisions set forth at § 225.16(b)(5)(i) and (iv) of this chapter and may use the non-congregate meal service options contained in § 225.16(i) of this chapter.
[88 FR 90347, Dec. 29, 2023]
Pt. 210, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 210—Alternate Foods for Meals

# I. Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein
1. Schools may utilize the enriched macaroni products with fortified protein defined in paragraph 3 as a food item in meeting the meal requirements of this part under the following terms and conditions:
(a) One ounce (28.35 grams) of a dry enriched macaroni product with fortified protein may be used to meet not more than one-half of the meat or meat alternate requirements specified in § 210.10, when served in combination with 1 or more ounces (28.35 grams) of cooked meat, poultry, fish, or cheese. The size of servings of the cooked combination may be adjusted for various age groups.
(b) Only enriched macaroni products with fortified protein that bear a label containing substantially the following legend shall be so utilized: “One ounce (28.35 grams) dry weight of this product meets one-half of the meat or meat alternate requirements of lunch or supper of the USDA child nutrition programs when served in combination with 1 or more ounces (28.35 grams) of cooked meat, poultry, fish, or cheese. In those States where State or local law prohibits the wording specified, a legend acceptable to both the State or local authorities and FNS shall be substituted.”
(c) Enriched macaroni product may not be used for infants under 1 year of age.
2. Only enriched macaroni products with fortified protein that have been accepted by FNS for use in the USDA Child Nutrition Programs may be labeled as provided in paragraph 1(b) of this appendix. Manufacturers seeking acceptance of their product shall furnish FNS a chemical analysis, the Protein Digestibility-Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS), and such other pertinent data as may be requested by FNS, except that prior to November 7, 1994, manufacturers may submit protein efficiency ratio analysis in lieu of the PDCAAS. This information is to be forwarded to: Director, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, Food and Nutrition Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 3101 Park Center Drive, room 607, Alexandria, VA 22302. All laboratory analyses are to be performed by independent or other laboratories acceptable to FNS. (FNS prefers an independent laboratory.) All laboratories shall retain the “raw” laboratory data for a period of 1 year. Such information shall be made available to FNS upon request. Manufacturers must notify FNS if there is a change in the protein portion of their product after the original testing. Manufacturers who report such a change in protein in a previously approved product must submit protein data in accordance with the method specified in this paragraph.
3. The product should not be designed in such a manner that would require it to be
classified as a Dietary Supplement as described by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 21 CFR part 105. To be accepted by FNS, enriched macaroni products with fortified protein must conform to the following requirements:
(a)(1) Each of these foods is produced by drying formed units of dough made with one or more of the milled wheat ingredients designated in 21 CFR 139.110(a) and 139.138(a), and other ingredients to enable the finished food to meet the protein requirements set out in paragraph 3.(a)(2)(i) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix. Edible protein sources, including food grade flours or meals made from nonwheat cereals or from oilseeds, may be used. Vitamin and mineral enrichment nutrients are added to bring the food into conformity with the requirements of paragraph (b) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix. Safe and suitable ingredients, as provided for in paragraph (c) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix, may be added. The proportion of the milled wheat ingredient is larger than the proportion of any other ingredient used.
(2) Each such finished food, when tested by the methods described in the pertinent sections of “Official Methods of Analysis of the AOAC International,” (formerly the Association of Official Analytical Chemists), 15th Ed. (1990) meets the following specifications. This publication is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC International, 2200 Wilson Blvd., suite 400, Arlington, VA 22201-3301. This publication may be examined at the Food and Nutrition Service, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, room 607, Alexandria, Virginia 22302 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(i) The protein content (N × 6.25) is not less than 20 percent by weight (on a 13 percent moisture basis) as determined by the appropriate method of analysis in the AOAC manual cited in (a)(2) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix. The protein quality is not less than 95 percent that of casein as determined on a dry basis by the PDCAAS method as described below:
(A) The PDCAAS shall be determined by the methods given in sections 5.4.1, 7.2.1. and 8.0 as described in “Protein Quality Evaluation, Report of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Quality Evaluation,” Rome, 1990, as published by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations/World Health Organization (WHO). This report is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this report may be obtained from the Nutrition and Technical Services Division, Food and Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center Drive, room 607, Alexandria, Virginia 22302. This report may also be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(B) The standard used for assessing protein quality in the PDCAAS method is the amino acid scoring pattern established by FAO/WHO and United Nations University (UNU) in 1985 for preschool children 2 to 5 years of age which has been adopted by the National Academy of Sciences, Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA), 1989.
(C) To calculate the PDCAAS for an individual food, the test food must be analyzed for proximate analysis and amino acid composition according to AOAC methods.
(D) The PDCAAS may be calculated using FDA's limited data base of published true digestibility values (determined using humans and rats). The true digestibility values contained in the WHO/FAO report referenced in paragraph 3.(a)(2)(i)(A) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix may also be used. If the digestibility of the protein is not available from these sources it must be determined by a laboratory according to methods in the FAO/WHO report (sections 7.2.1 and 8.0).
(E) The most limiting essential amino acid (that is, the amino acid that is present at the lowest level in the test food compared to the standard) is identified in the test food by comparing the levels of individual amino acids in the test food with the 1985 FAO/WHO/UNU pattern of essential amino acids established as a standard for children 2 to 5 years of age.
(F) The value of the most limiting amino acid (the ratio of the amino acid in the test food over the amino acid value from the pattern) is multiplied by the percent of digestibility of the protein. The resulting number is the PDCAAS.
(G) The PDCAAS of food mixtures must be calculated from data for the amino acid composition and digestibility of the individual components by means of a weighted average procedure. An example for calculating a PDCAAS for a food mixture of varying protein sources is shown in section 8.0 of the FAO/WHO report cited in paragraph 3.(a)(2)(i)(A) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix.
(H) For the purpose of this regulation, each 100 grams of the product (on a 13 percent moisture basis) must contain protein in amounts which is equivalent to that provided by 20 grams of protein with a quality
of not less than 95 percent casein. The equivalent grams of protein required per 100 grams of product (on a 13 percent moisture basis) would be determined by the following equation:
ER07OC94.022
X = grams of protein required per 100 grams of product
a = 20 grams (amount of protein if casein)
b = .95 [95% × 1 (PDCAAS of casein)
c = PDCAAS for protein used in formulation
(ii) The total solids content is not less than 87 percent by weight as determined by the methods described in the “Official Methods of Analysis of the AOAC International” cited in paragraph (a)(2) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix.
(b)(1) Each pound of food covered by this section shall contain 5 milligrams of thiamine, 2.2 milligrams of riboflavin, 34 milligrams of niacin or niacinamide, and 16.5 milligrams of iron.
(2) Each pound of such food may also contain 625 milligrams of calcium.
(3) Only harmless and assimilable forms of iron and calcium may be added. The enrichment nutrients may be added in a harmless carrier used only in a quantity necessary to effect a uniform distribution of the nutrients in the finished food. Reasonable overages, within the limits of good manufacturing practice, may be used to assure that the prescribed levels of the vitamins and mineral(s) in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix are maintained throughout the expected shelf life of the food under customary conditions of distribution.
(c) Ingredients that serve a useful purpose such as to fortify the protein or facilitate production of the food are the safe and suitable ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix. This does not include color additives, artificial flavorings, artificial sweeteners, chemical preservatives, or starches. Ingredients deemed suitable for use by this paragraph are added in amounts that are not in excess of those reasonably required to achieve their intended purposes. Ingredients are deemed to be safe if they are not food additives within the meaning of section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or in case they are food additives if they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act.
(d)(1) The name of any food covered by this section is “Enriched Wheat ________ Macaroni Product with Fortified Protein”, the blank being filled in with appropriate word(s) such as “Soy” to show the source of any flours or meals used that were made from non-wheat cereals or from oilseeds. In lieu of the words “Macaroni Product” the words “Macaroni”, “Spaghetti”, or “Vermicelli” as appropriate, may be used if the units conform in shape and size to the requirements of 21 CFR 139.110 (b), (c), or (d).
(2) When any ingredient not designated in the part of the name prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix, is added in such proportion as to contribute 10 percent or more of the quantity of protein contained in the finished food, the name shall include the statement “Made with ________”, the blank being filled in with the name of each such ingredient, e.g. “Made with nonfat milk”.
(3) When, in conformity with paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this appendix, two or more ingredients are listed in the name, their designations shall be arranged in descending order of predominance by weight.
(4) If a food is made to comply with a section of 21 CFR part 139, but also meets the compositional requirements of the Enriched Macaroni with Fortified Protein Appendix, it may alternatively bear the name set out in the other section.
(e) Each ingredient used shall declare its common name as required by the applicable section of 21 CFR part 101. In addition, the ingredients statement shall appear in letters not less than one half the size of that required by 21 CFR 101.105 for the declaration of net quantity of contents, and in no case less than one-sixteenth of an inch in height.

# II. Alternate Protein Products

# A. What Are the Criteria for Alternate Protein Products Used in the National School Lunch Program?
1. An alternate protein product used in meals planned under the food-based menu planning approaches in § 210.10(k), must meet all of the criteria in this section.
2. An alternate protein product whether used alone or in combination with meat or other meat alternates must meet the following criteria:
a. The alternate protein product must be processed so that some portion of the non-protein constituents of the food is removed. These alternate protein products must be safe and suitable edible products produced from plant or animal sources.
b. The biological quality of the protein in the alternate protein product must be at least 80 percent that of casein, determined by performing a Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS).
c. The alternate protein product must contain at least 18 percent protein by weight when fully hydrated or formulated. (“When
hydrated or formulated” refers to a dry alternate protein product and the amount of water, fat, oil, colors, flavors or any other substances which have been added).
d. Manufacturers supplying an alternate protein product to participating schools or institutions must provide documentation that the product meets the criteria in paragraphs A2. a through c of this appendix.
e. Manufacturers should provide information on the percent protein contained in the dry alternate protein product and on an as prepared basis.
f. For an alternate protein product mix, manufacturers should provide information on:
(1) the amount by weight of dry alternate protein product in the package;
(2) hydration instructions; and
(3) instructions on how to combine the mix with meat or other meat alternates.

# B. How Are Alternate Protein Products Used in the National School Lunch Program?
1. Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use alternate protein products to fulfill all or part of the meat/meat alternate component discussed in § 210.10.
2. The following terms and conditions apply:
a. The alternate protein product may be used alone or in combination with other food ingredients. Examples of combination items are beef patties, beef crumbles, pizza topping, meat loaf, meat sauce, taco filling, burritos, and tuna salad.
b. Alternate protein products may be used in the dry form (nonhydrated), partially hydrated or fully hydrated form. The moisture content of the fully hydrated alternate protein product (if prepared from a dry concentrated form) must be such that the mixture will have a minimum of 18 percent protein by weight or equivalent amount for the dry or partially hydrated form (based on the level that would be provided if the product were fully hydrated).

# C. How Are Commercially Prepared Products Used in the National School Lunch Program?
Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use a commercially prepared meat or meat alternate product combined with alternate protein products or use a commercially prepared product that contains only alternate protein products.
[51 FR 34874, Sept. 30, 1986; 51 FR 41295, Nov. 14, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 29164, Aug. 2, 1988; 59 FR 51086, Oct. 7, 1994; 60 FR 31216; June 13, 1995; 61 FR 37671, July 19, 1996; 65 FR 12434, Mar. 9, 2000; 65 FR 26912, May 9, 2000; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
Appendix B to Part 210 [Reserved]
Pt. 210, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 210—Child Nutrition Labeling Program
1. The Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program is a voluntary technical assistance program administered by the Food and Nutrition Service in conjunction with the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce (USDC) for the Child Nutrition Programs. This program essentially involves the review of a manufacturer's recipe or product formulation to determine the contribution a serving of a commercially prepared product makes toward meal pattern requirements and a review of the CN label statement to ensure its accuracy. CN labeled products must be produced in accordance with all requirements set forth in this rule.
2. Products eligible for CN labels are as follows:
(a) Commercially prepared food products that contribute significantly to the meat/meat alternate component of meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 225.20, and 226.20 and are served in the main dish.
(b) Juice drinks and juice drink products that contain a minimum of 50 percent full-strength juice by volume.
3. For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions apply:
(a) “CN label” is a food product label that contains a CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) below.
(b) The “CN logo” (as shown below) is a distinct border which is used around the edges of a “CN label statement” as defined in paragraph 3(c).
EC17SE91.000
(c) The “CN label statement” includes the following:
(1) The product identification number (assigned by FNS),
(2) The statement of the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, § 220.8 or § 220.8a, whichever is applicable, §§ 225.20, and 226.20. The statement shall identify the contribution of a specific portion of a meat/meat alternate product toward the meat/meat alternate, bread/bread alternate, and/or vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements. For juice drinks and juice drink products the statement shall identify their contribution toward the vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements,
(3) Statement specifying that the use of the CN logo and CN statement was authorized by FNS, and
(4) The approval date.
For example:
EC17SE91.001
(d)
Federal inspection
means inspection of food products by FSIS, AMS or USDC.
4. Food processors or manufacturers may use the CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) under the following terms and conditions:
(a) The CN label must be reviewed and approved at the national level by FNS and appropriate USDA or USDC Federal agency responsible for the inspection of the product.
(b) The CN labeled product must be produced under Federal inspection by USDA or USDC. The Federal inspection must be performed in accordance with an approved partial or total quality control program or standards established by the appropriate Federal inspection service.
(c) The CN label statement must be printed as an integral part of the product label along with the product name, ingredient listing, the inspection shield or mark for the appropriate inspection program, the establishment number where appropriate, and the manufacturer's or distributor's name and address. The inspection marking for CN labeled non-meat, non-poultry, and non-seafood products with the exception of juice drinks and juice drink products is established as follows:
EC17SE91.002
(d) Yields for determining the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements must be calculated using the
Food Buying Guide for Child Nutrition Programs
(Program AID Number 1331).
5. In the event a company uses the CN logo and CN label statement inappropriately, the company will be directed to discontinue the use of the logo and statement and the matter will be referred to the appropriate agency for action to be taken against the company.
6. Products that bear a CN label statement as set forth in paragraph 3(c) carry a warranty. This means that if a food service authority participating in the Child Nutrition Programs purchases a CN labeled product and uses it in accordance with the manufacturer's directions, the school or institution will not have an audit claim filed against it for the CN labeled product for noncompliance with the meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, § 220.8 or § 220.8a, whichever is
applicable, §§ 225.20, and 226.20. If a State or Federal auditor finds that a product that is CN labeled does not actually meet the meal pattern requirements claimed on the label, the auditor will report this finding to FNS. FNS will prepare a report of the findings and send it to the appropriate divisions of FSIS and AMS of the USDA, National Marine Fisheries Services of the USDC, Food and Drug Administration, or the Department of Justice for action against the company. Any or all of the following courses of action may be taken:
(a) The company's CN label may be revoked for a specific period of time;
(b) The appropriate agency may pursue a misbranding or mislabeling action against the company producing the product;
(c) The company's name will be circulated to regional FNS offices;
(d) FNS will require the food service program involved to notify the State agency of the labeling violation.
7. FNS is authorized to issue operational policies, procedures, and instructions for the CN Labeling Program. To apply for a CN label and to obtain additional information on CN label application procedures write to: CN Labels, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302.
[51 FR 34874, Sept. 30, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 29164, Aug. 2, 1988; 60 FR 31216, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26912, May 9, 2000]
Pt. 215

# PART 215—SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN
Sec.
215.1
General purpose and scope.
215.2
Definitions.
215.3
Administration.
215.4
Payments of funds to States and FNSROs.
215.5
Method of payment to States.
215.6
Use of funds.
215.7
Requirements for participation.
215.7a
Fluid milk and non-dairy milk substitute requirements.
215.8
Reimbursement payments.
215.9
Effective date for reimbursement.
215.10
Reimbursement procedures.
215.11
Special responsibilities of State agencies.
215.12
Claims against schools or child-care institutions.
215.13
Management evaluations and audits.
215.13a
Determining eligibility for free milk in child-care institutions.
215.14
Nondiscrimination.
215.14a
Procurement standards.
215.15
Withholding payments and establishing fines.
215.16
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
215.17
Program information.
215.18
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1772 and 1779.
§ 215.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces the policies and prescribes the general regulations with respect to the Special Milk Program for Children, under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and sets forth the general requirements for participation in the program. The Act reads in pertinent part as follows:
Section 3(a)(1) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1970, and for each succeeding fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to enable the Secretary of Agriculture, under such rules and regulations as he may deem in the public interest, to encourage consumption of fluid milk by children in the United States in (A) nonprofit schools of high school grade and under, except as provided in paragraph (2), which do not participate in a meal service program authorized under this Act or the National School Lunch Act, and (B) nonprofit nursery schools, child care centers, settlement houses, summer camps, and similar nonprofit institutions devoted to the care and training of children, which do not participate in a meal service program authorized under this Act or the National School Lunch Act.
(2) The limitation imposed under paragraph (1)(A) for participation of nonprofit schools in the special milk program shall not apply to split-session kindergarten programs conducted in schools in which children do not have access to the meal service program operating in schools the children attend as authorized under this Act or the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
).
(3) For the purposes of this section “United States” means the fifty States, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the District of Columbia.
(4) The Secretary shall administer the special milk program provided for by this section to the maximum extent practicable in the same manner as he administered the special milk program provided for by Pub. L. 89-642, as amended, during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1969.
(5) Any school or nonprofit child care institution which does not participate in a meal service program authorized under this Act or the National School Lunch Act shall receive the special milk program upon their request.
(6) Children who qualify for free lunches under guidelines established by the Secretary shall, at the option of the school involved (or of the local educational agency involved in the case of a public school) be eligible for free milk upon their request.
(7) For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, and for subsequent school years, the minimum rate of reimbursement for a half-pint of milk served in schools and other eligible institutions shall not be less than 5 cents per half-pint served to eligible children, and such minimum rate of reimbursement shall be adjusted on an annual basis each school year to reflect changes in the Producer Price Index for Fresh Processed Milk published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.
(8) Such adjustment shall be computed to the nearest one-fourth cent.
(9) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in no event shall the minimum rate of reimbursement exceed the cost to the school or institution of milk served to children.
[52 FR 7562, Mar. 12, 1987]
§ 215.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the term:
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
Adults
means those persons not included under the definition of children.
Applicable credits
shall have the meaning established in 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
Child and Adult Care Food Program
means the program authorized by section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Child care institution
means any nonprofit nursery school, child care center, settlement house, summer camp, service institution participating in the Summer Food Program for Children pursuant to part 225 of this chapter, institution participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program pursuant to part 226 of this chapter, or similar nonprofit institution devoted to the care and training of children. The term “child care institution” also includes a nonprofit agency to which such institution has delegated authority for the operation of a milk program in the institution. It does not include any institution falling within the definition of “School” of this section.
Child
means
(1) A person under 19 chronological years of age in a Child care institution as defined in this section;
(2) A person under 21 chronological years of age attending a school as defined in paragraphs (3) and (4) of the definition of
School
in this section;
(3) A student of high school grade or under attending school as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of
School
in this section; or
(4) A student who is mentally or physically disabled as determined by the State and who is participating in a school program established for the mentally or physically disabled, of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of
School
in this section.
CND
means the Child Nutrition Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
Contractor
means a commercial enterprise, public or nonprofit private organization or individual that enters into a contract with a school food authority.
Cost of milk
means the net purchase price paid by the school or child care institution to the milk supplier for milk delivered to the school or child care institution. This shall not include any amount paid to the milk supplier for servicing, rental of or installment purchase of milk service equipment.
Cost reimbursable contract
means a contract that provides for payment of incurred costs to the extent prescribed in the contract, with or without a fixed fee.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disclosure
means reveal or use individual children's program eligibility information obtained through the free
milk eligibility process for a purpose other than for the purpose for which the information was obtained. The term refers to access, release, or transfer of personal data about children by means of print, tape, microfilm, microfiche, electronic communication or any other means.
Family
means a group of related or nonrelated individuals, who are not residents of an institution or boarding house, but who are living as one economic unit.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1, 1977, and each October 1 of any calendar year thereafter and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
Fixed fee
means an agreed upon amount that is fixed at the inception of the contract. In a cost reimbursable contract, the fixed fee includes the contractor's direct and indirect administrative costs and profit allocable to the contract.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
FNSRO
means Food and Nutrition Services Regional Offices, of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Free milk
means milk for which neither the child nor any member of his family pays or is required to work in the school or child-care institution or in its food service.
Local educational agency
means a public board of education or other public or private nonprofit authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or for a combination of school districts or counties that is recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools. The term also includes any other public or private nonprofit institution or agency having administrative control and direction of a public or private nonprofit elementary school or secondary school, including residential child care institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, and educational service agencies and consortia of those agencies, as well as the State educational agency in a State or territory in which the State educational agency is the sole educational agency for all public or private nonprofit schools.
Medicaid
means the State medical assistance program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
).
Milk
means pasteurized fluid types of unflavored or flavored whole milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, or cultured buttermilk which meet State and local standards for such milk. In Alaska, Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin Islands, if a sufficient supply of such types of fluid milk cannot be obtained,
milk
shall include reconstituted or recombined milk. All milk should contain vitamins A and D at levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration and consistent with State and local standards for such milk.
National School Lunch Program
means the program under which general cash-for-food assistance and special cash assistance are made available to schools pursuant to part 210 of this chapter.
Needy children
means:
(1) Children who attend schools participating in the Program and who meet the School Food Authority's eligibility standards for free milk approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, under part 245 of this chapter; and
(2) Children who attend child-care institutions participating in the Program and who meet the eligibility standards for free milk approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, under § 215.13a of this part.
Nonpricing program
means a program which does not sell milk to children. This shall include any such program in which children are normally provided milk, along with food and other services, in a school or child-care institution financed by a tuition, boarding, camping or other fee, or by private donations or endowments.
Nonprofit
means, when applied to schools or institutions eligible for the Program, exempt from income tax
under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Nonprofit milk service
means milk service maintained by or on behalf of the school or child-care institution for the benefit of the children, all of the income from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such milk service.
Nonprofit school food service account
means the restricted account in which all of the revenue from the nonprofit milk service maintained for the benefit of children is retained and used only for the operation or improvement of the nonprofit milk service.
OA
means the Office of Audit of the United States Department of Agriculture.
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
Pricing program
means a program which sells milk to children. This shall include any such program in which maximum use is made of Program reimbursement payments in lowering, or reducing to “zero,” wherever possible, the price per half pint which children would normally pay for milk.
Program
means the Special Milk Program for Children.
Reimbursement
means financial assistance paid or payable to participating schools and child care institutions for milk served to eligible children.
School
means: (1) An educational unit of high school grade or under, recognized as part of the educational system in the State and operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings; (2) any public or nonprofit private classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in the aforementioned schools; or (3) any public or nonprofit private residential child care institution, or distinct part of such institution, which operates principally for the care of children, and, if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government,
except for
residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children, Job Corps centers funded by the Department of Labor, and private foster homes. The term
residential child care institutions
includes, but is not limited to: Homes for the mentally, emotionally or physically impaired, and unmarried mothers and their infants; group homes; halfway houses; orphanages; temporary shelters for abused children and for runaway children; long-term care facilities for chronically ill children; and juvenile detention centers. A long-term care facility is a hospital, skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility, or distinct part thereof, which is intended for the care of children confined for 30 days or more.
School Breakfast Program
means the program authorized by section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
School Food Authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools and which has the legal authority to operate a milk program therein. The term “School Food Authority” also includes a nonprofit agency to which such governing body has delegated authority for the operation of a milk program in a school.
School year
means the period of 12 calendar months beginning July 1, 1977, and each July 1 of any calendar year thereafter and ending June 30 of the following calendar year.
Split-session
means an educational program operating for approximately one-half of the normal school day.
State
means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
State agency
means the State educational agency or any other State agency that has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program.
State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)
means the State medical assistance program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
).
Summer Food Service Program for Children
means the program authorized by section 13 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766; sec. 10(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1760; sec. 10(d)), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3624 (42 U.S.C. 1757); sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3625-3626; sec. 205, Pub. L. 96-499, The Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 2599; secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760))
[32 FR 12587, Aug. 31, 1967]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 215.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 215.3
Administration.
(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program. Within FNS, CND shall be responsible for Program administration.
(b) Within the States, to the extent practicable and permissible under State law, responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools and child care institutions shall be in the educational agency of the State:
Provided, however,
That another State agency, upon request by the Governor or other appropriate State executive or legislative authority, may be approved to administer the Program in schools as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of
School
in § 215.2 or in child care institutions.
(c) FNSRO shall administer the Program in any
School
or any
Child care institution
as defined in § 215.2 wherein the State agency is not permitted by law to disburse Federal funds paid to it under the Program;
Provided, however,
That FNSRO shall also administer the Program in all other schools and child-care institutions which have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980 unless the administration of such schools and institutions is assumed by a State agency. References in this part to “FNSRO where applicable” are to FNSRO as the agency administering the Program to schools or child-care institutions within certain States.
(d) Each State agency desiring to take part in the Program shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in the State in accordance with the provisions of this part, 7 CFR parts 235, 245, 15, 15a, 15b and, as applicable, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and FNS Instructions. Such agreement shall cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended at the option of the Department.
(e)
Authority to waive statute and regulations.
(1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.
(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.
(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request
submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.
(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:
(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,
(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.
(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.
(Secs. 804, 816 and 817, Pub. L. 97-35; 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771 and 1785))
[Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31174, July 27, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 24, 47 FR 14133 Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 36, 54 FR 2989, Jan. 23, 1989; 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 63791, Nov. 13, 2007; 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016; 87 FR 57354, Sept. 19, 2022]
§ 215.4
Payments of funds to States and FNSROs.
(a) For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall make payments to each State agency at such times as he may determine from the funds appropriated for Program reimbursement. Subject to § 215.11(c)(2), the total of these payments for each State for any fiscal year shall be limited to the amount of reimbursement payable to School Food Authorities and child care institutions under § 215.8 of this part for the total number of half-pints of milk served under the Program to eligible children from October 1 to September 30.
(b) Each State agency shall be responsible for controlling Program reimbursement payments so as to keep within the funds made available to it, and for the timely reporting to FNS of the number of half pints of milk actually served. The Secretary shall increase or decrease the available level of funding by adjusting the State agency's Letter of Credit when appropriate.
(Pub. L. 97-370, 96 Stat. 1806)
[Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31174, July 27, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 30, 49 FR 18986, May 4, 1984]
§ 215.5
Method of payment to States.
(a) Funds to be paid to any State shall be made available by means of Letters of Credit issued by FNS in favor of the State agency. The State agency shall:
(1) Obtain funds needed to reimburse School Food Authorities and child-care institutions through presentation by designated State officials of a Payment Voucher on Letter of Credit (Treasury Form GFO 7578) in accordance with procedures prescribed by FNS and approved by the U.S. Treasury Department;
(2) Submit requests for funds only at such times and in such amounts as will permit prompt payment of claims;
(3) Use the funds received from such requests without delay for the purpose for which drawn. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if funds are made available by Congress for the operation of the Program under a continuing resolution, Letters of Credit shall reflect only the amount available for the effective period of the resolution.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The State agency shall release to FNS any Federal funds made available to it under the Program which are unobligated at the end of each fiscal year. Release of funds by the State agency shall be made as soon as practicable but in no event later than 30 days following demand by FNSRO, and shall be reflected by a related adjustment in the State agency's Letter of Credit.
[Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28416, Aug. 7, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31174, July 27, 1976]
§ 215.6
Use of funds.
(a) Federal funds made available under the Program shall be used to encourage the consumption of milk through reimbursement payments to
schools and child-care institutions in connection with the purchase and service of milk to children in accordance with the provisions of this part:
Provided, however,
That, with the approval of FNS, any State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may reserve for use in carrying out special developmental projects an amount equal to not more than 1 per centum of the Federal funds so made available for any fiscal year.
(b) Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, shall: (1) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both; or (2) if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both.
(c) Whoever receives, conceals, or retains to his use or gain funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject to the same penalties provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(Sec. 10(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1760; sec. 10(d)(3), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3624 (42 U.S.C. 1757); sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3625-3626; 44 U.S.C. 3506))
[Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31174, July 27, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 18, 44 FR 37898, June 29, 1979; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 64 FR 50741, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 215.7
Requirements for participation.
(a) Any school or nonprofit child care institution shall receive the Special Milk Program upon request provided it does not participate in a meal service program authorized under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 or the National School Lunch Act; except that schools with such meal service may receive the Special Milk Program upon request only for the children attending split-session kindergarten programs who do not have access to the meal service. Each School Food Authority or child-care institution shall make written application to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for any school or child-care institution in which it desires to operate the Program, if such school or child-care institution did not participate in the Program in the prior fiscal year.
(b) Any School Food Authority or child care institution participating in the Program may elect to serve free milk to children eligible for free meals. Upon application for the Program, each School Food Authority or child care institution:
(1) Shall be required by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, to state whether or not it wishes to provide free milk in the schools or institutions participating under its jurisdiction and
(2) If it so wishes to provide free milk, shall also submit for approval a free milk policy statement which, if for a school, shall be in accordance with part 245 of this chapter or, if for a child care institution, shall be in accordance with § 215.13a of this part.
(c) The application shall include information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, to determine whether the School Food Authority or child-care institution is eligible to participate in the Program and extent of the need for Program payments.
(d) Each school food authority or child care institution approved to participate in the program shall enter into a written agreement with the State agency or FNSRO, as applicable, that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the State agency to suspend or terminate the agreement in accordance with § 215.15. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, that State agency shall provide each SFA with a single agreement with respect to the operation of those programs. Such agreement shall provide that the School Food Authority or child-care institution shall, with respect to participating schools and child-care institutions under its jurisdiction:
(1) Operate a nonprofit milk service. However, school food authorities may use facilities, equipment, and personnel supported with funds provided
to a school food authority under this part to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
).
(2) If electing to provide free milk (i) serve milk free to all eligible children, at times that milk is made available to nonneedy children under the Program; and (ii) make no discrimination against any needy child because of his inability to pay for the milk.
(3) Comply with the requirements of the Department's regulations respecting nondiscrimination (7 CFR part 15);
(4) Claim reimbursement only for milk as defined in this part and in accordance with the provisions of § 215.8 and § 215.10;
(5) Submit Claims for Reimbursement in accordance with § 215.10 of this part and procedures established by the State agency or FNSRO where applicable;
(6) Maintain a financial management system as prescribed by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable;
(7) Upon request, make all records pertaining to its milk program available to the State agency and to FNS or OA for audit and administrative review, at any reasonable time and place. Such records shall be retained for a period of three years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit;
(8) Retain the individual applications for free milk submitted by families for a period of three years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(e)
State requirements.
Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional requirements for participation in the Program which are not inconsistent with the provision of this part.
(f)
Program evaluations.
Local educational agencies, school food authorities, schools, child care institutions and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766); sec. 5, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3619 (42 U.S.C. 1772); secs. 801, 803, 812; Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1759(a), 1773, 1758); 44 U.S.C. 3506)
[Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28416, Aug. 7, 1974]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 215.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 215.7a
Fluid milk and non-dairy milk substitute requirements.
Fluid milk and non-dairy fluid milk substitutes served must meet the requirements as outlined in this section.
(a)
Types of fluid milk.
All fluid milk served in the Program must be pasteurized fluid milk which meets State and local standards for such milk, have vitamins A and D at levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration, and must be consistent with State and local standards for such milk. Lactose-free and reduced-lactose milk that meet the fat content and flavor specifications for each age group may also be offered. Fluid milk must also meet the following requirements:
(1)
Children 1 year old.
Children one year of age must be served unflavored whole milk.
(2)
Children 2 through 5 years old.
Children two through five years old must be served either unflavored low-fat (1 percent) or unflavored fat-free (skim) milk.
(3)
Children 6 years old and older.
Children 6 years old and older must be served low-fat (1 percent fat or less) or fat-free (skim) milk. Milk may be flavored or unflavored.
(b)
Fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons.
(1) A school food authority or child care institution may offer fluid milk substitutes based on a written request from a child's parent or guardian, a State licensed healthcare professional, or registered dietitian. A school food authority or child care institution choosing to offer fluid milk substitutes for a non-disability reason is not required to offer the specific
fluid milk substitutes requested but may offer the fluid milk substitutes of its choice, provided the fluid milk substitutes offered meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) If a school food authority or child care institution chooses to offer one or more fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons, the fluid milk substitutes must provide, at a minimum, the nutrients listed in the following table. Fluid milk substitutes must be fortified in accordance with fortification guidelines issued by the Food and Drug Administration.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(2)—Nutrient Requirements for Fluid Milk Substitutes
Nutrient
Per cup (8 fl. oz.)
Calcium
276 mg.
Protein
8 g.
Vitamin A
150 mcg. retinol activity equivalents (RAE).
Vitamin D
2.5 mcg.
Magnesium
24 mg.
Phosphorus
222 mg.
Potassium
349 mg.
Riboflavin
0.44 mg.
Vitamin B-12
1.1 mcg.
(3) Expenses incurred when providing fluid milk substitutes that exceed program reimbursements must be paid by the school food authority or child care institution; costs may be paid from the nonprofit food service account.
[81 FR 24375, Apr. 25, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 56714, Nov. 30, 2017; 83 FR 63790, Dec. 12, 2018; 85 FR 74849, Nov. 24, 2020; 87 FR 7006, Feb. 7, 2022; 89 FR 32077, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 215.8
Reimbursement payments.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)(1) The rate of reimbursement per half-pint of milk purchased and (i) served in nonpricing programs to all children; (ii) served to all children in pricing programs by institutions and School Food Authorities not electing to provide free milk; and (iii) served to children other than needy children in pricing programs by institutions and School Food Authorities electing to provide free milk shall be the rate announced by the Secretary for the applicable school year. However, in no event shall the reimbursement for each half-pint (236 ml.) of milk served to children exceed the cost of the milk to the school or child care institution.
(2) The rate of reimbursement for milk purchased and served free to needy children in pricing programs by institutions and School Food Authorities electing to provide free milk shall be the average cost of milk, i.e., the total cost of all milk purchased during the claim period, divided by the total number of purchased half-pints.
(c) Schools and child-care institutions having pricing programs shall use the reimbursement payments received to reduce the price of milk to children.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766); sec. 5, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3619 (42 U.S.C. 1772); Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980, sec. 209, Pub. L. 96-499, 94 Stat. 2599; secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535, 42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760; secs. 805 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1773))
[Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28416, Aug. 7, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 16, 43 FR 1060, Jan. 6, 1978; 44 FR 10700, Feb. 23, 1979; Amdt. 17, 44 FR 33047, June 8, 1979; 46 FR 51365, Oct. 20, 1981; Amdt. 23, 47 FR 14134, Apr. 2, 1982; 82 FR 56714, Nov. 30, 2017]
§ 215.9
Effective date for reimbursement.
(a) A State Agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may grant written approval to begin operations under the Program prior to the receipt of the application from the School Food Authority or child-care institution. Such written approval shall be attached to the subsequently filed application, and the agreement executed by the School Food Authority or child-care institution shall be effective from the date upon which the School Food Authority or child-care institution was authorized to begin operations:
Provided, however,
That such effective date shall not be earlier than the calendar month preceding the calendar month in which the agreement is executed by the State Agency or by the Department.
(b) Reimbursement payments pursuant to § 215.8 shall be made for milk purchased and served to children at any time during the effective period of an agreement between a School Food
Authority or child care institution and the State agency or the Department.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766))
[32 FR 12587, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 5, 37 FR 14686, July 22, 1972; Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28417, Aug. 7, 1974; Amdt. 16, 43 FR 1060, Jan. 6, 1978; 44 FR 10700, Feb. 23, 1979]
§ 215.10
Reimbursement procedures.
(a) To be entitled to reimbursement under this part, each School Food Authority shall submit to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, a monthly Claim for Reimbursement.
(b) Claims for Reimbursement shall include data in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the Reports of School Program Operations required under § 215.11(c)(2). Unless otherwise approved by FNS, the Claim for Reimbursement for any month shall include only milk served in that month except if the first or last month of Program operations for any year contains 10 operating days or less, such month may be added to the Claim for Reimbursement for the appropriate adjacent month; however, Claims for Reimbursement may not combine operations occurring in two fiscal years. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, the SFA shall be able to use a common claim form with respect to claims for reimbursement for meals served under those programs. A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked and/or submitted to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, not later than 60 days following the last day of the full month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not postmarked and/or submitted within 60 days shall not be paid with Program funds unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted. The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement as determined necessary through its claim review process or otherwise. In taking such corrective action, State agencies may make upward adjustments in Program funds claimed on claims filed within the 60 day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the claim month and are reflected in the final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for the claim month which is required under § 215.11(c)(2). Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-10 for the claim month shall not be made unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments in Program funds claimed shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) In submitting a Claim for Reimbursement, each School Food Authority or child-care institution shall certify that the claim is true and correct; that records are available to support the claim; that the claim is in accordance with the existing agreement; and that payment therefor has not been received.
(e) Milk served to adults is not eligible for reimbursement.
(f) Any School Food Authority or child care institution which operates both a nonpricing and pricing milk program in the same school or child care institution, may elect to claim reimbursement for:
(1) All milk purchased and served to children under the Program at the nonpricing rate prescribed in § 215.8(b) (1), or (2) only milk purchased and served to children in the pricing program at the rates prescribed in § 215.8(b) (1) and (2) for pricing programs.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766); Pub. L. 97-370, 96 Stat. 1806)
[Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28417, Aug. 7, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31175, July 27, 1976; Amdt. 16, 43 FR 1060, Jan. 6, 1978; 44 FR 10700, Feb. 23, 1979; 45 FR 82622, Dec. 16, 1980; 48 FR 20896, May 10, 1983; Amdt. 30, 49 FR 18986, May 4, 1984; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 215.11
Special responsibilities of State agencies.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Program assistance.
Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall provide Program assistance, as follows:
(1) Consultive, technical, and managerial personnel to administer the Program and monitor performance of schools and child-care institutions and to measure progress toward achieving Program goals.
(2) Visits to participating schools and child-care institutions to ensure compliance with Program regulations and with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (part 15 of this title), issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. State agencies shall conduct reviews of schools participating in the Program for compliance with the provisions of this part when such schools are being reviewed under the provisions identified under § 210.18 of this title. Compliance reviews of participating schools shall focus on the reviewed school's compliance with the required certification, counting, claiming, and milk service procedures. School food authorities may appeal a denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement or withholding of payment arising from review activity conducted by the State agency under § 210.18 of this title or by FNS under § 210.30(d)(2) of this title. Any such appeal shall be subject to the procedures set forth under § 210.18(q) of this title or § 210.30(d)(3) of this title, as appropriate.
(3) Documentation of such Program assistance shall be maintained on file by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable.
(c)
Records and reports.
(1) Each State agency shall maintain Program records as necessary to support the reimbursement payments made to child care institutions or School Food Authorities under §§ 215.8 and 215.10 and the reports submitted to FNS under § 215.11(c)(2). The records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm, and shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of submission of the final Financial Status Report for the fiscal year, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(2) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for each month which shall be limited to claims submitted in accordance with § 215.10(b) and which shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State agency's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary. Adjustments shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. A final Financial Status Report for each fiscal year shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year. FNS shall not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid program obligations reported later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.
(d)
Compliance.
State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, shall require School Food Authorities and child-care institutions to comply with applicable provisions of this part.
(e)
Investigations.
Each State Agency shall promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of the Program and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. State Agencies shall maintain on file evidence of such investigations and actions. The Office of Investigation of the Department (OI) shall make investigations at the request of the State Agency or if CND or FNSRO determines investigations by OI are appropriate.
(f)
Program evaluations.
States, State agencies, and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized
under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766); 44 U.S.C. 3506; sec. 812, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1759a))
[32 FR 12587, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28417, Aug. 7, 1974; Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31175, July 27, 1976; 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982; Amdt. 25, 47 FR 18564, Apr. 30, 1982; Amdt. 30, 49 FR 18987, May 4, 1984; 56 FR 32949, July 17, 1991; 57 FR 38586, Aug. 26, 1992; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14173, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 215.12
Claims against schools or child-care institutions.
(a) State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, shall disallow any portion of a claim and recover any payment made to a School Food Authority or child-care institution that was not properly payable under this part. State agencies will use their own procedures to disallow claims and recover overpayments already made.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The State Agency may refer any matter in connection with this section to FNSRO and CND for determination of the action to be taken.
(d) Each State agency shall maintain all records pertaining to action taken under this section. Such records shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of the submission of the final Financial Status Report, except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(e) If CND does not concur with the State Agency action in paying a claim or a reclaim, or in failing to collect an overpayment FNSRO shall assert a claim against the State Agency for the amount of such claim, reclaim or overpayment. In all such cases, the State Agency shall have full opportunity to submit to CND evidence or information concerning the action taken. If in the determination of CND, the State Agency's action was unwarranted, the State Agency shall promptly pay to FNS the amount of the claim, reclaim, or overpayment.
(f) The amounts recovered by the State Agency from schools and child-care institutions may be utilized, first, to make reimbursement payments for milk served during the fiscal year for which the funds were initially available, and second, to repay any State funds expended in the reimbursement of claims under the program and not otherwise repaid. Any amounts recovered which are not so utilized shall be returned to FNS in accordance with the requirements of § 215.5(c).
(g) With respect to schools or child-care institutions in which FNSRO administers the Program, when FNSRO disallows a claim or a portion of a claim, or makes a demand for refund of an alleged overpayment, it shall notify the School Food Authority or child-care institutions of the reasons for such disallowance or demand and the School Food Authority or child-care institutions shall have full opportunity to submit evidence or to file reclaim for any amount disallowed or demanded in the same manner afforded in this section to schools or child-care institutions administered by State Agencies.
(h) The Secretary shall have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claims arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. The Secretary shall also have the authority to waive such claims if the Secretary determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the Program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of Title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.
(47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982 (44 U.S.C. 3506; secs. 804, 816 and 817, Pub. L. 97-35; 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771 and 1785))
[32 FR 12587, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 5, 37 FR 14686, July 22, 1972; Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28418, Aug. 7, 1974; Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31175, July 27, 1976; 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982; Amdt. 24, 47 FR 14133, Apr. 2, 1982]
§ 215.13
Management evaluations and audits.
(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and school food authority/child care institution levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR
part 200, subpart F, and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA's implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b) Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to schools and child-care institutions) of any operations of the State agency under the Program and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits (including visits to schools and child-care institutions) of all operations of the State agency under the Program. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds under the Program, upon a reasonable request by FNS or OIG. OIG shall also have the right to make audits of the records and operations of any school or child-care institution.
(c) In conducting management evaluations, reviews or audits for any fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard any overpayment if the total overpayment does not exceed $600 or, in the case of State agency claims in State administered Programs, it does not exceed the amount established under State law, regulations or procedure as a minimum amount for which claim will be made for State losses but not to exceed $600. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
(Secs. 805 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1773); sec. 812, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1759a))
[Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31175, July 27, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58925, Dec. 22, 1978; Amdt. 23, 47 FR 14135, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 25, 47 FR 18564, Apr. 30, 1982; Amdt. 36, 54 FR 2990, Jan. 23, 1989; 57 FR 38586, Aug. 26, 1992; 59 FR 1894, Jan. 13, 1994; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 215.13a
Determining eligibility for free milk in child-care institutions.
(a)
General.
Child care institutions which operate pricing programs may elect to make free milk available, as set forth in § 215.7(d)(2), to children who meet the approved eligibility criteria. Such child care institutions shall determine the children who are eligible for free milk and assure that there is no physical segregation of, or other discrimination against, or overt identification of, children unable to pay the full price for milk.
(b)
Action by State agencies and FNSROs.
Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, upon application for the program by a child care institution operating a pricing program, and annually thereafter, shall require the institution to state whether or not it wishes to serve free milk to eligible children at times that milk is provided under the Program. It shall annually require each child care institution electing to provide free milk to submit a free milk policy statement and shall provide such institutions with a prototype free milk policy statement and a copy of the State's family-size income standards for determining eligibility for free meals and milk under the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs to assist the institutions in meeting its responsibilities.
(c)
Action by institutions.
Each child care institution which operates a pricing program shall inform the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, at the time it applies for Program participation and at least annually thereafter, whether or not it wishes to provide free milk. Institutions electing to provide free milk shall annually submit a written free milk policy statement for determining free milk eligibility of children under their jurisdiction, which shall contain the items specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Such institutions shall not be approved for Program participation of their agreements renewed unless the free milk policy has been reviewed and approved. Pending approval or a revision of a policy statement, the existing policy shall remain in effect.
(d)
Policy statement.
A free milk policy statement as required in paragraph (c) of this section shall contain the following:
(1) The specific criteria to be used in determining eligibility for free milk. These criteria shall give consideration to economic need as reflected by family size and income. The criteria used by the child-care institution may not result in the eligibility of children from families whose incomes exceed
the State's family-size income standards for determining eligibility for free meals under the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs.
(2) The method by which the child-care institution will collect information from families in order to determine a child's eligibility for free milk.
(3) The method by which the child-care institution will collect milk payments so as to prevent the overt identification of children receiving free milk.
(4) A hearing procedure substantially like that outlined in part 245 of this chapter.
(5) An assurance that there will be no discrimination against free milk recipients and no discrimination against any child on the basis of race, color, or national origin.
(e)
Public announcement of eligibility criteria.
Each child care institution which elects to make free milk available under the Program shall annually make a public announcement of the availability of free milk to children who meet the approved eligibility criteria to the information media serving the area from which its attendance is drawn. The public announcement must also state that milk is available to all children in attendance without regard to race, color, or national origin.
(f)
Statement requirements.
The free milk application provided to households must include a statement informing households of how information provided on the application will be used. Each application must include substantially the following statement: “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this application. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve your child for free milk. You must include the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application. The last four digits of the social security number are not required when you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program or Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) case number for your child or other FDPIR identifier or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a social security number. We will use your information to determine if your child is eligible for free milk, and for administration and enforcement of the Program.” When the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in paragraph (i) of this section must be added to this statement. State agencies and child care institutions are responsible for drafting the appropriate statement.
(g)
Disclosure of children's free milk eligibility information to certain programs and individuals without parental consent.
The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose aggregate information about children eligible for free milk to any party without parental notification and consent when children cannot be identified through release of the aggregate data or by means of deduction. Additionally, the State agency or child care institution may disclose information that identifies children eligible for free milk to the programs and the individuals specified in this paragraph (g) without parent/guardian consent. The State agency or child care institution that makes the free milk eligibility determination is responsible for deciding whether to disclose program eligibility information.
(1)
Persons authorized to receive eligibility information.
Only persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section may have access to children's free milk eligibility information, without parental consent. Persons considered directly connected with administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section are Federal, State, or local program operators responsible for the ongoing operation of the program or activity or persons responsible for program compliance. Program operators may include persons responsible for carrying out program requirements and monitoring, reviewing, auditing, or investigating the program. Program operators may include contractors, to the extent those persons have a need to know the
information for program administration or enforcement. Contractors may include evaluators, auditors, and others with whom Federal or State agencies and program operators contract with to assist in the administration or enforcement of their program on their behalf.
(2)
Disclosure of children's names and free milk eligibility status.
The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, only children's names and eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free milk) to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of:
(i) A Federal education program;
(ii) A State health program or State education program administered by the State or local education agency;
(iii) A Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition program with eligibility standards comparable to the National School Lunch Program (i.e., food assistance programs for households with incomes at or below 185 percent of the Federal poverty level); or
(iv) A third party contractor assisting in verification of eligibility efforts by contacting households who fail to respond to requests for verification of their eligibility.
(3)
Disclosure of all eligibility information.
In addition to children's names and eligibility status, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, all eligibility information obtained through the free milk eligibility process (including all information on the application or obtained through direct certification) to:
(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. This means that all eligibility information obtained for the Special Milk Program may be disclosed to persons directly connected with administering or enforcing regulations under the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, Child and Adult Care Food Program, Summer Food Service Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) (Parts 210, 220, 226, 225, and 246, respectively, of this chapter);
(ii) The Comptroller General of the United States for purposes of audit and examination; and
(iii) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the programs listed in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section.
(4)
Use of free milk eligibility information by programs other than Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
State agencies and child care institutions may use children's free milk eligibility information for administering or enforcing the Special Milk Program. Additionally, any other Federal, State, or local agency charged with administering or enforcing the Special Milk Program may use the information for that purpose. Individuals and programs to which children's free milk eligibility information has been disclosed under this section may use the information only in the administration or enforcement of the receiving program. No further disclosure of the information may be made.
(h)
Disclosure of children's free milk eligibility information to Medicaid and/or SCHIP, unless parents decline.
Children's free milk eligibility information only may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP when both the State agency and the child care institution so elect, the parent/guardian does not decline to have their eligibility information disclosed and the other provisions described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are met. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose children's names, eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free milk), and any other eligibility information obtained through the free milk application or obtained through direct certification to persons directly connected with the administration of Medicaid or SCHIP. Persons directly connected to the administration of Medicaid and SCHIP are State employees and persons authorized under Federal and State Medicaid and SCHIP requirements to carry out initial processing of Medicaid or SCHIP applications or to make eligibility determinations for Medicaid or SCHIP.
(1) The State agency must ensure that:
(i) The child care institution and health insurance program officials have a written agreement that requires the health insurance program agency to use the eligibility information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid and SCHIP; and
(ii) Parents/guardians are notified that their eligibility information may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP and given an opportunity to decline to have their children's eligibility information disclosed, prior to any disclosure.
(2)
Use of children's free milk eligibility information by Medicaid/SCHIP.
Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators receiving children's free milk eligibility information must use the information to identify eligible children and enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP. The Medicaid and SCHIP enrollment process may include targeting and identifying children from low-income households who are potentially eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP for the purpose of seeking to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP. No further disclosure of the information may be made. Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators also may verify children's eligibility in a program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 or the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
(i)
Notifying households of potential uses and disclosures of children's free milk eligibility information.
Households must be informed that the information they provide on the free milk application will be used to determine eligibility for free milk and that their eligibility information may be disclosed to other programs.
(1) For disclosures to programs, other than Medicaid or SCHIP, that are permitted access to children's eligibility information without parent/guardian consent, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians at the time of application that their children's free milk eligibility information may be disclosed. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (f) of this section, “We may share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs; auditors for program reviews; and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.” For children determined eligible for free milk through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free milk through direct certification process.
(2) For disclosure to Medicaid or SCHIP, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians that their children's free milk eligibility information will be disclosed to Medicaid and/or SCHIP unless the parent/guardian elects not to have their information disclosed and notifies the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, by a date specified by the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate. Only the parent or guardian who is a member of the household or family for purposes of the free milk application may decline the disclosure of eligibility information to Medicaid or SCHIP. The notification must inform parents/guardians that they are not required to consent to the disclosure, that the information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP, and that their decision will not affect their children's eligibility for free milk. The notification may be included in the letter/notice to parents/guardians that accompanies the free milk application, on the application itself or in a separate notice provided to parents/guardians. The notice must give parents/guardians adequate time to respond if they do not want their information disclosed. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (f) of this section, “We may share your information with Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program, unless you tell us not to. The information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or
SCHIP.” For children determined eligible for free milk through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure and opportunity to decline the disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free milk through direct certification.
(j)
Other disclosures.
State agencies and child care institutions that plan to use or disclose identifying information about children eligible for free milk to programs or individuals not specified in this section must obtain written consent from children's parents or guardians prior to the use or disclosure.
(1) The consent must identify the information that will be shared and how the information will be used.
(2) There must be a statement informing parents and guardians that failing to sign the consent will not affect the child's eligibility for free milk and that the individuals or programs receiving the information will not share the information with any other entity or program.
(3) Parents/guardians must be permitted to limit the consent only to those programs with which they wish to share information.
(4) The consent statement must be signed and dated by the child's parent or guardian who is a member of the household for purposes of the free milk application.
(k)
Agreements with programs/individuals receiving children's free milk eligibility information.
Agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) are recommended or required as follows:
(1) The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, should have a written agreement or MOU with programs or individuals receiving eligibility information, prior to disclosing children's free milk eligibility information. The agreement or MOU should include information similar to that required for disclosures to Medicaid and SCHIP specified in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.
(2) For disclosures to Medicaid or SCHIP, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must have a written agreement with the State or local agency or agencies administering Medicaid or SCHIP prior to disclosing children's free milk eligibility information to those agencies. At a minimum, the agreement must:
(i) Identify the health insurance program or health agency receiving children's eligibility information;
(ii) Describe the information that will be disclosed;
(iii) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency use the information obtained and specify that the information must be used to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or SCHIP;
(iv) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency describe how they will use the information obtained;
(v) Describe how the information will be protected from unauthorized uses and disclosures;
(vi) Describe the penalties for unauthorized disclosure; and
(vii) Be signed by both the Medicaid or SCHIP program or agency and the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate.
(l)
Penalties for unauthorized disclosure or misuse of children's free milk eligibility information.
In accordance with section 9(b)(6)(C) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(6)(C)), any individual who publishes, divulges, discloses or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not authorized by statute or this section, any information obtained under this section will be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for up to 1 year, or both.
(Sec. 11, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1337 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1753, 1766); sec. 5, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3619 (42 U.S.C. 1772))
[Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31176, July 27, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 16, 43 FR 1060, Jan. 6, 1978; 44 FR 10700, Feb. 23, 1979; Amdt. 17, 44 FR 33047, June 8, 1979; 66 FR 2201, Jan. 11, 2001; 72 FR 10892, Mar. 12, 2007; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 78 FR 13449, Feb. 28, 2013]
§ 215.14
Nondiscrimination.
The Department's regulations on nondiscrimination in federally assisted programs are set forth in part 15 of this title. The Department's agreements with State agencies, the State agencies' agreements with School Food Authorities and child-care institutions and the FNSRO agreements with School Food Authorities administering
nonprofit private schools and with child-care institutions shall contain the assurances required by such regulations. When different types of milk are served to children, (a) a uniform price for each type of milk served shall be charged to all non-needy children in the school or child-care institution who purchase milk, and (b) needy children shall be given the opportunity to select any type of milk offered.
(44 U.S.C. 3506)
[Amdt. 13, 39 FR 28418, Aug. 7, 1974, as amended at 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982]
§ 215.14a
Procurement standards.
(a)
General.
State agencies and school food authorities shall comply with the requirements of this part and 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable concerning the procurement of all goods and services with nonprofit school food service account funds.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in this part and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 200 subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, do not relieve the State agency or School Food Authority of any contractual responsibilities under its contract. The State agency or School Food Authority is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes but is not limited to: Source evaluation, protests, disputes, claims, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the local, State or Federal authority that has proper jurisdiction.
(c)
Procedures.
The State agency may elect to follow either the State laws, policies and procedures as authorized by 2 CFR 200.317, or the procurement standards for other governmental grantees and all governmental subgrantees in accordance with 2 CFR 200.318 through 2 CFR 200.326. Regardless of the option selected, States must ensure that all contracts include any clauses required by Federal statutes and executive orders and that the requirements of 2 CFR 200.236 and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Award are followed. The school food authority or child care institution may use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State or local laws and regulations, provided that procurements made with nonprofit school food service account funds adhere to the standards set forth in this part and in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 as applicable. School food authority procedures must include a written code of standards of conduct meeting the minimum standards of 2 CFR 200.318, as applicable.
(1)
Pre-issuance review requirement.
The State agency may impose a pre-issuance review requirement on a school food authority's proposed procurement. The school food authority must make available, upon request of the State agency, its procurement documents, including but not limited to solicitation documents, specifications, evaluation criteria, procurement procedures, proposed contracts and contract terms. School food authorities shall comply with State agency requests for changes to procurement procedures and solicitation and contract documents to ensure that, to the State agency's satisfaction, such procedures and documents reflect applicable procurement and contract requirements and the requirements of this part.
(2)
Prototype solicitation documents and contracts.
The school food authority must obtain the State agency's prior written approval for any change made to prototype solicitation or contract documents before issuing the revised solicitation documents or execution of the revised contract.
(3)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a procurement failing to meet the requirements of this part.
(d)
Cost reimbursable contracts
—(1)
Required provisions.
The school food authority must include the following provisions in all cost reimbursable contracts, including contracts with cost reimbursable provisions, and in solicitation documents prepared to obtain offers for such contracts:
(i) Allowable costs will be paid from the nonprofit school food service account to the contractor net of all discounts, rebates and other applicable credits accruing to or received by the contractor or any assignee under the contract, to the extent those credits are allocable to the allowable portion of the costs billed to the school food authority;
(ii)(A) The contractor must separately identify for each cost submitted for payment to the school food authority the amount of that cost that is allowable (can be paid from the nonprofit school food service account) and the amount that is unallowable (cannot be paid from the nonprofit school food service account), or
(B) The contractor must exclude all unallowable costs from its billing documents and certify that only allowable costs are submitted for payment and records have been established that maintain the visibility of unallowable costs, including directly associated costs in a manner suitable for contract cost determination and verification;
(iii) The contractor's determination of its allowable costs must be made in compliance with the applicable Departmental and Program regulations and Office of Management and Budget cost circulars;
(iv) The contractor must identify the amount of each discount, rebate and other applicable credit on bills and invoices presented to the school food authority for payment and identify the amount as a discount, rebate, or in the case of other applicable credits, the nature of the credit. If approved by the State agency, the school food authority may permit the contractor to report this information on a less frequent basis than monthly, but no less frequently than annually;
(v) The contractor must identify the method by which it will report discounts, rebates and other applicable credits allocable to the contract that are not reported prior to conclusion of the contract; and
(vi) The contractor must maintain documentation of costs and discounts, rebates and other applicable credits, and must furnish such documentation upon request to the school food authority, the State agency, or the Department.
(2)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a cost reimbursable contract that fails to include the requirements of this section, nor may any expenditure be made from the nonprofit school food service account that permits or results in the contractor receiving payments in excess of the contractor's actual, net allowable costs.
(e)
Geographic preference.
A school food authority participating in the Program may apply a geographic preference when procuring milk, including the use of “locally grown”, “locally raised”, or “locally caught” as procurement specifications or selection criteria for unprocessed or minimally processed food items. When utilizing the geographic preference to procure milk, the school food authority making the purchase has the discretion to determine the local area to which the geographic preference option will be applied, so long as there are an appropriate number of qualified firms able to compete.
(Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[Amdt. 27, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 61492, Oct. 31, 2007; 76 FR 22607, Apr. 22, 2011; 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016; 89 FR 32078, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 215.15
Withholding payments and establishing fines.
(a)
Withholding payments.
In accordance with Departmental regulations 2 CFR 200.338 through 200.342, the State agency must withhold Program payments, in whole or in part, from any school food authority which has failed to comply with the provisions of this part. Program payments must be withheld until the school food authority takes corrective action satisfactory to
the State agency, or gives evidence that such corrective actions will be taken, or until the State agency terminates the grant in accordance with § 215.16. Subsequent to the State agency's acceptance of the corrective actions, payments will be released for any milk served in accordance with the provisions of this part during the period the payments were withheld.
(b)
Fines.
(1) The State agency may establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that the school food authority or a school under its agreement has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the Program;
(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the school food authority or school had been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements.
(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that the school food authority or school meets the criteria set forth under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Funds used to pay a fine established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. The State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the school food authority or school for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data is available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of reimbursement for milk earned for the fiscal year;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of reimbursement for milk earned for the fiscal year; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of reimbursement for milk earned for the fiscal year.
(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing a fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the school food authority written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:
(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;
(ii) Inform the school food authority that it may appeal the fine and advise the school food authority of the appeal procedures established under § 210.18(p) of this chapter;
(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the school food authority not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.
(5) Any school food authority subject to a fine under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the school food authority must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any school food authority seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.
(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.
(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against a school food authority and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.
[88 FR 57848, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 215.16
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
Whenever it is determined that a State agency has materially failed to comply with the provisions of this part, or with FNS guidelines and instructions, FNS may suspend or terminate the Program in whole, or in part, or take any other action as may be available and appropriate. A State agency may also terminate the Program by mutual agreement with FNS. FNS and the State agency shall comply with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, concerning grant suspension, termination and closeout procedures. Furthermore, the
State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall apply these provisions to suspension or termination of the Program in School Food Authorities.
[Amdt. 30, 49 FR 18987, May 4, 1984, as amended at 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006. Redesignated at 72 FR 61493, Oct. 31, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 215.17
Program information.
Persons seeking information about this Program should contact their State administering agency or the appropriate FNSRO. The FNS website has contact information for State agencies at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/contacts
and FNSROs at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-regional-offices.
[88 FR 57848, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 215.18
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where
requirements are described
Current OMB control No.
215.3(d)
0584-0067
215.5(a)
0584-0005
215.7
0584-0005
215.10(a), (b), (d)
0584-0005
215.11(c)(1)
0584-0005
215.11(c)(2)
0584-0594
215.12(d)
0584-0005
215.13a
0584-0026
215.14a
0584-0005
[81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016]
Pt. 220

# PART 220—SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
Sec.
220.1
General purpose and scope.
220.2
Definitions.
220.3
Administration.
220.4
Payment of funds to States and FNSROs.
220.5
Method of payment to States.
220.6
Use of funds.
220.7
Requirements for participation.
220.8
Meal requirements for breakfasts.
220.9
Reimbursement payments.
220.10
Effective date for reimbursement.
220.11
Reimbursement procedures.
220.12
Competitive food services.
220.13
Special responsibilities of State agencies.
220.14
Claims against school food authorities.
220.15
Management evaluations and audits.
220.16
Procurement standards.
220.17
Prohibitions.
220.18
Withholding payments and establishing fines.
220.19
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
220.20
Free and reduced price breakfasts.
220.21
Program information.
220.22
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
220.23
Seamless Summer Option non-congregate meal service.
Appendix A to Part 220—Alternate Foods for Meals
Appendix B to Part 220 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 220—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1773, 1779, unless otherwise noted.
§ 220.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces the policies and prescribes the regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, which authorizes payments to the States to assist them to initiate, maintain, or expand nonprofit breakfast programs in schools.
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34758, Aug. 17, 1976]
§ 220.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part the term:
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
Applicable credits
shall have the meaning established in 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
Breakfast
means a meal which meets the meal requirements set out in § 220.8, and which is served to a child in the morning hours. The meal must be served at or close to the beginning of the child's day at school.
Child
means:
(1) A student of high school grade or under as determined by the State educational agency, who is enrolled in an educational unit of high school grade or under as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of “School” in this section, including students with a disability who participate in a school program established for persons with disabilities; or
(2) A person under 21 chronological years of age who is enrolled in an institution or center as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of “School” in this section.
Contractor
means a commercial enterprise, public or nonprofit private organization or individual that enters into a contract with a school food authority.
Cost reimbursable contract
means a contract that provides for payment of incurred costs to the extent prescribed in the contract, with or without a fixed fee.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Distributing Agency
means a State agency which enters into an agreement with the Department for the distribution to schools of donated foods pursuant to part 250 of this chapter.
Fiscal year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning on October 1 of any year and ending September 30 of the following year.
Fixed fee
means an agreed upon amount that is fixed at the inception of the contract. In a cost reimbursable contract, the fixed fee includes the contractor's direct and indirect administrative costs and profit allocable to the contract.
Fixed-price contract
means a contract that charges a fixed cost per meal, or a fixed cost for a certain time period. Fixed-price contracts may include an economic price adjustment tied to a standard index.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
FNSRO
means the appropriate Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
Food item
means a specific food offered within a meal component.
Free breakfast
means a breakfast served under the Program to a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter and for which neither the child nor any member of the household pays or is required to work.
Infant cereal
means any iron fortified dry cereal especially formulated and generally recognized as cereal for infants that is routinely mixed with breast milk or iron-fortified infant formula prior to consumption.
Infant formula
means any iron-fortified infant formula intended for dietary use solely as a food for normal healthy infants excluding those formulas specifically formulated for infants with inborn errors of metabolism or digestive or absorptive problems. Infant formula, as served, must be in liquid state at recommended dilution.
Local educational agency
means a public board of education or other public or private nonprofit authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or for a combination of school districts or counties that is recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools. The term also includes any other public or private nonprofit institution or agency having administrative control and direction of a public or private nonprofit elementary school or secondary school, including residential child care institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, and educational service agencies and consortia of those agencies, as well as the State educational agency in a State or territory in which the State educational agency is the sole educational agency for all public or private nonprofit schools.
Meal component
means one of the food groups which comprise reimbursable meals. The meal components are: fruits, vegetables, grains, meats/meat alternates, and fluid milk.
National School Lunch Program
means the Program authorized by the National School Lunch Act.
Net cash resources
means all monies as determined in accordance with the
State agency's established accounting system, that are available to or have accrued to a School Food Authority's nonprofit school food service at any given time, less cash payable. Such monies may include but are not limited to, cash on hand, cash receivable, earnings or investments, cash on deposit and the value of stocks, bonds or other negotiable securities.
Nonprofit
means, when applied to schools or institutions eligible for the Program, exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Nonprofit school food service
means all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of school children, all of the revenue from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such food service.
Nonprofit school food service account
means the restricted account in which all of the revenue from all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of school children is retained and used only for the operation or improvement of the nonprofit school food service.
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
Program
means the School Breakfast Program.
Reduced price breakfast
means a breakfast served under the Program:
(1) To a child from a household eligible for such benefits under part 245 of this chapter;
(2) For which the price is less than the school food authority designated full price of the breakfast and which does not exceed the maximum allowable reduced price specified under part 245 of this chapter; and
(3) For which neither the child nor any member of the household is required to work.
Reimbursement
means Federal cash assistance including advances paid or payable to participating schools for breakfasts meeting the requirements of § 220.8 served to eligible children.
Revenue
when applied to nonprofit school food service means all monies received by or accruing to the nonprofit school food service in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system including, but not limited to, children's payments, earnings on investments, other local revenues, State revenues, and Federal cash reimbursements.
School
means:
(1) An educational unit of high school grade or under, recognized as part of the educational system in the State and operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings;
(2) Any public or nonprofit private classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in the aforementioned schools; or
(3) Any public or nonprofit private residential child care institution, or distinct part of such institution, which operates principally for the care of children, and, if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government, except for residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children, Job Corps centers funded by the Department of Labor, and private foster homes.
School Breakfast Program
means the program authorized by section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
School in severe need
means a school determined to be eligible for rates of reimbursement in excess of the prescribed National Average Payment Factors, based upon the criteria set forth in § 220.9(d).
School food authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools; and has legal authority to operate the Program therein
or
be otherwise approved by FNS to operate the Program.
School week
means the period of time used to determine compliance with the meal requirements in § 220.8. The period must be a normal school week of five consecutive days; however, to accommodate shortened weeks resulting from holidays and other scheduling needs, the period must be a minimum of three consecutive days and a maximum of seven consecutive days. Weeks in which school breakfasts are offered less than three times must be combined
with either the previous or the coming week.
Seamless Summer Option
means the meal service alternative authorized by Section 13(a)(8) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(8), under which public or nonprofit school food authorities participating in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program offer meals at no cost to children during the traditional summer vacation periods and, for year-round schools, vacation periods longer than 10 school days.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
State
means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
State agency
means:
(1) The State educational agency;
(2) Such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program in schools as specified in § 210.3(b) of this chapter; or
(3) The FNSRO, where the FNSRO administers the Program as specified in § 210.3(c) of this chapter.
State educational agency
means, as the State legislature may determine:
(1) The chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or
(2) A board of education controlling the State department of education.
Tofu
means a soybean-derived food, made by a process in which soybeans are soaked, ground, mixed with water, heated, filtered, coagulated, and formed into cakes. Basic ingredients are whole soybeans, one or more food-grade coagulants (typically a salt or an acid), and water. Tofu products must conform to FNS guidance to count toward the meats/meat alternates component.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Whole grain-rich
is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched.
Whole grains
means grains that consist of the intact, ground, cracked, or flaked grain seed whose principal anatomical components—the starchy endosperm, germ and bran—are present in the same relative proportions as they exist in the intact grain seed.
Yogurt
means commercially prepared coagulated milk products obtained by the fermentation of specific bacteria, that meet milk fat or milk solid requirements and to which flavoring foods or ingredients may be added. These products are covered by the Food and Drug Administration's Definition and Standard of Identity for yogurt, 21 CFR 131.200, and low-fat yogurt and non-fat yogurt covered as a standardized food under 21 CFR 130.10.
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34758, Aug. 17, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 220.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 220.3
Administration.
(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program covered by this part.
(b) Within the States, responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of
School
in § 220.2 shall be in the State educational agency, except that FNSRO shall administer the Program with respect to nonprofit private schools and adding in their place the words “as described in paragraph (1) of the definition of
School
in § 220.2 in any State wherein the State educational agency is not permitted by law to disburse Federal funds paid to it under the Program;
Provided, however,
That FNSRO shall also administer the Program in all
other nonprofit private schools which have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980, unless the administration of such private schools is assumed by a State agency.
(c) Within the States, responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools, as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of
School
in § 220.2, shall be in the State educational agency, or if the State educational agency cannot administer the Program in such schools, such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program in such schools:
Provided, however,
That FNSRO shall administer the Program in such schools if the State agency is not permitted by law to disburse Federal funds paid to it under the Program to such schools; and
Provided, further,
That FNSRO shall also administer the Program in all other such schools which have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980, unless the administration of such schools is assumed by a State agency.
(d) References in this part to “FNSRO where applicable” are to FNSRO as the agency administering the Program.
(e) Each State agency desiring to take part in any of the programs shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in the State in accordance with the provisions of this part, 7 CFR parts 235, 245, 15, 15a, 15b and, as applicable, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and FNS Instructions. Such agreement shall cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended at the option of the Department.
(f)
Authority to waive statute and regulations.
(1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.
(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (f)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.
(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.
(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:
(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,
(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.
(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response
is final and may not be appealed to FNS.
(Sec. 804, 816 and 817, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771 and 1785); 44 U.S.C. 3506)
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34759, Aug. 17, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982; Amdt. 42, 47 FR 14133, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 56, 54 FR 2990, Jan. 23, 1989; 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 63792, Nov. 13, 2007; 81 FR 66491, Sept. 28, 2016; 87 FR 57354, Sept. 19, 2022; 89 FR 32080, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 220.4
Payment of funds to States and FNSROs.
(a) To the extent funds are available, the Secretary shall make breakfast assistance payments to each State agency for breakfasts served to children under the Program. Subject to § 220.13(b)(2), the total of these payments for each State for any fiscal year shall be limited to the total amount of reimbursement payable to eligible schools within the State under this part for the fiscal year.
(b) The Secretary shall prescribe by July 1 of each fiscal year annual adjustments to the nearest one-fourth cent in the national average per breakfast factors for all breakfasts and for free and reduced price breakfasts, that shall reflect changes in the cost of operating a breakfast program.
(c) In addition to the funds made available under paragraph (a) of this section, funds shall be made available to the State agencies, and FNSROs where applicable, in such amounts as are needed to finance reimbursement rates assigned in accordance with the provisions of § 220.9(c).
(Secs. 801, 803, 812; Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1759(a), 1773, 1758); Pub. L. 97-370, 96 Stat. 1806)
[38 FR 35554, Dec. 28, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 30923, July 24, 1975; 46 FR 51367, Oct. 20, 1981; 48 FR 20896, May 10, 1983; Amdt. 49, 49 FR 18987, May 4, 1984]
§ 220.5
Method of payment to States.
Funds to be paid to any State for the School Breakfast Program shall be made available by means of Letters of Credit issued by FNS in favor of the State agency. The State agency shall:
(a) Obtain funds needed for reimbursement to School Food Authorities through presentation by designated State officials of a payment Voucher on Letter of Credit in accordance with procedures prescribed by FNS and approved by the U.S. Treasury Department; (b) submit requests for funds only at such times and in such amounts, as will permit prompt payment of claims or authorized advances; and (c) use the funds received from such requests without delay for the purpose for which drawn.
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34759, Aug. 17, 1976]
§ 220.6
Use of funds.
(a) Federal funds made available under the School Breakfast Program shall be used by State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, to reimburse or make advance payments to School Food Authorities in connection with breakfasts served in accordance with the provisions of this part. However, with the approval of FNS, any State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may reserve for use in carrying out special developmental projects an amount up to 1 per centum of the funds earned in any fiscal year under the School Breakfast Program. Advance payments to School Food Authorities may be made at such times and in such amounts as are necessary to meet current obligations.
(b) Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, shall—
(1) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both; or
(2) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both.
(c) Whoever receives, conceals, or retains to his use or gain funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject
to the same penalties provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(Sec. 10(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1760); sec. 10(d)(3), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3624 (42 U.S.C. 1757); sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3625-3626)
[40 FR 30923, July 24, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34759, Aug. 17, 1976; Amdt. 28, 44 FR 37899, June 29, 1979; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 220.7
Requirements for participation.
(a) The School Food Authority shall make written application to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for any school in which it desires to operate the School Breakfast Program, if such school did not participate in the Program in the prior fiscal year. The School Food Authority shall also submit for approval, either with the application or at the request of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, a free and reduced price policy statement in accordance with part 245 of this chapter. A School Food Authority which simultaneously makes application for the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program shall submit one free and reduced price policy statement which shall provide that the terms, conditions, and eligibility criteria set forth in such policy statement shall apply to the service of free and reduced price lunches and to the service of free and reduced price breakfasts. If, at the time application is made for the School Breakfast Program, a School Food Authority has an approved free and reduced price policy statement on file with the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for the National School Lunch Program, it need only confirm in writing that such approved policy statement will also apply to the operation of its School Breakfast Program. Applications for the School Breakfast Program shall not be approved in the absence of an approved free and reduced price policy statement.
(1) A school which also either participates in the National School Lunch Program or only receives donations of commodities for its nonprofit lunch program under the provisions of part 250 of this chapter (commodity only school) shall apply the same set of eligibility criteria so that children who are eligible for free lunches shall also be eligible for free breakfasts and children who are eligible for reduced price lunches shall also be eligible for reduced price breakfasts.
(2) Schools shall obtain a minimum of two food safety inspections per school year conducted by a State or local governmental agency responsible for food safety inspections. Schools participating in more than one child nutrition program shall only be required to obtain a minimum of two food safety inspections per school year if the food preparation and service for all meal programs take place at the same facility. Schools shall post in a publicly visible location a report of the most recent inspection conducted, and provide a copy of the inspection report to a member of the public upon request.
(3) The school food authority must implement a food safety program meeting the requirements of §§ 210.13(c) and 210.15(b)(5) of this chapter at each facility or part of a facility where food is stored, prepared, or served.
(b) Applications shall solicit information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to determine whether the School Food Authority is eligible to participate in the Program and extent of the need for Program payments.
(c) Within the funds available to them, State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, shall approve for participation in the School Breakfast Program any school making application and agreeing to carry out the program in accordance with this part. State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, have a positive obligation, however, to extend the benefits of the School Breakfast Program to children attending schools in areas where poor economic conditions exist.
(d)(1) Any school food authority (including a State agency acting in the capacity of a school food authority) may contract with a food service management company to manage its food service operation in one or more of its schools. However, no school or school food authority may contract with a food service management company to operate an a la carte food service unless the company agrees to offer free,
reduced price and paid reimbursable breakfasts to all eligible children. Any school food authority that employs a food service management company in the operation of its nonprofit school food service shall:
(i) Adhere to the procurement standards specified in § 220.16 when contracting with the food service management company;
(ii) Ensure that the food service operation is in conformance with the school food authority's agreement under the Program;
(iii) Monitor the food service operation through periodic on-site visits;
(iv) Retain control of the quality, extent, and general nature of its food service, and the prices to be charged the children for meals;
(v) Retain signature authority on the State agency-school food authority agreement, free and reduced price policy statement and claims;
(vi) Ensure that all federally donated foods received by the school food authority and made available to the food service management company accrue only to the benefit of the school food authority's nonprofit school food service and are fully utilized therein;
(vii) Maintain applicable health certification and assure that all State and local regulations are being met by a food service management company preparing or serving meals at a school food authority facility;
(viii) Obtain written approval of invitations for bids and requests for proposals before their issuance when required by the State agency. The school food authority must incorporate all State agency required changes to its solicitation documents before issuing those documents; and
(ix) Ensure that the State agency has reviewed and approved the contract terms and the school food authority has incorporated all State agency required changes into the contract or amendment before any contract or amendment to an existing food service management company contract is executed. Any changes made by the school food authority or a food service management company to a State agency pre-approved prototype contract or State agency approved contract term must be approved in writing by the State agency before the contract is executed. When requested, the school food authority must submit all procurement documents, including responses submitted by potential contractors, to the State agency, by the due date established by the State agency.
(2) In addition to adhering to the procurement standards under this part, school food authorities contracting with food service management companies shall ensure that:
(i) The invitation to bid or request for proposal contains a 21-day cycle menu developed in accordance with the provisions of § 220.8, to be used as a standard for the purpose of basing bids or estimating average cost per meal. A school food authority with no capability to prepare a cycle menu may, with State agency approval, require that each food service management company include a 21-day cycle menu, developed in accordance with the provisions of § 220.8, with its bid or proposal. The food service management company must adhere to the cycle for the first 21 days of meal service. Changes thereafter may be made with the approval of the school food authority; and
(ii) Any invitation to bid or request for proposal indicate that nonperformance subjects the food service management company to specified sanctions in instances where the food service management company violates or breaches contract terms. The school food authority shall indicate these sanctions in accordance with the procurement provisions stated in § 220.16.
(3) Contracts that permit all income and expenses to accrue to the food service management company and “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost” and “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-income” contracts are prohibited. Contracts that provide for fixed fees such as those that provide for management fees established on a per meal basis are allowed. Contractual agreements with food service management companies shall include provisions which ensure that the requirements of this section are met. Such agreements shall also include the following requirements:
(i) The food service management company shall maintain such records
as the school food authority will need to support its Claim for Reimbursement under this part, and shall, at a minimum, report claim information to the school food authority promptly at the end of each month. Such records shall be made available to the school food authority, upon request, and shall be available for a period of 3 years from the date of the submission of the final Financial Status Report, for inspection and audit by representatives of the State agency, of the Department, and of the Government Accountability Office at any reasonable time and place. If audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period (as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit);
(ii) The food service management company must have State or local health certification for any facility outside the school in which it proposes to prepare meals and the food service management company must maintain this health certification for the duration of the contract;
(iii) No payment is to be made for meals that are spoiled or unwholesome at time of delivery, do not meet detailed specifications as developed by the school food authority for each meal component specified in § 220.8, or do not otherwise meet the requirements of the contract. Specifications will cover items such a grade, purchase units, style, condition, weight, ingredients, formulations, and delivery time; and
(iv) Provisions in part 250, subpart D of this chapter must be included to ensure the value of donated foods,
i.e.,
USDA Foods, are fully used in the nonprofit food service and credited to the nonprofit school food service account.
(4) The contract between a school food authority and food service management company shall be of a duration of no longer than 1 year and options for the yearly renewal of the contract shall not exceed 4 additional years. All contracts shall include a termination clause whereby either party may cancel for cause with 60-day notification.
(e) Each school food authority approved to participate in the program shall enter into a written agreement with the State agency or the Department through the FNSRO, as applicable, that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the State agency or the FNSRO to suspend or terminate the agreement in accordance with § 220.18. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, that State agency shall provide each SFA with a single agreement with respect to the operation of those programs. Such agreements shall provide that the School Food Authority shall, with respect to participating schools under its jurisdiction:
(1)(i) Maintain a nonprofit school food service;
(ii) In accordance with the financial management system established under § 220.13(i) of this part, use all revenues received by such food service only for the operation or improvement of that food service
Except that,
facilities, equipment, and personnel support with funds provided to a school food authority under this part may be used to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
);
(iii) Revenues received by the nonprofit school food service must not be used to purchase land or buildings or to construct buildings;
(iv) Limit its net cash resources to an amount that does not exceed three months average expenditure for its nonprofit school food service or such other amount as may be approved by the State agency; and
(v) Observe the limitations on any competitive food service as set forth in § 220.12 of this part;
(2) Serve breakfasts which meet the minimum requirements prescribed in § 220.8;
(3) Price the breakfast as a unit;
(4) Serve breakfast free or at a reduced price to all children who are determined by the local education agency to be eligible for such meals under part 245 of this chapter;
(5) Make no discrimination against any child because of the child's inability to pay the full price of the breakfasts;
(6) Claim reimbursement at the assigned rates only for breakfasts served in accordance with the agreement;
(7) Submit Claims for Reimbursement in accordance with § 220.11 of this part and procedures established by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable;
(8) Maintain, in the storage, preparation and service of food, proper sanitation and health standards in conformance with all applicable State and local laws and regulations, and comply with the food safety requirements in paragraph (a)(2) and paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(9) Purchase, in as large quantities as may be efficiently utilized in its nonprofit school food service, foods designated as plentiful by the State agency;
(10) Accept and use, in as large quantities as may be efficiently utilized in its nonprofit school food service, such foods as may be offered as a donation by the Department;
(11) Maintain necessary facilities for storing, preparing, and serving food;
(12) Maintain a financial management system as prescribed by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable;
(13) Upon request, make all accounts and records pertaining to its nonprofit school food service available to the State agency and to FNS for audit or review at a reasonable time and place. Such records must be retained for a period of three years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records must be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit;
(14) Retain documentation of free or reduced price eligibility as follows:
(i) Maintain files of currently approved and denied free and reduced price applications which must be readily retrievable by school for a period of three years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain; or
(ii) Maintain files with the names of children currently approved for free meals through direct certification with the supporting documentation, as specified in § 245.6(b)(4) of this chapter, which must be readily retrievable by school. Documentation for direct certification must include information obtained directly from the appropriate State or local agency, or other appropriate individual, as specified by FNS, that:
(A) A child in the
Family,
as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter, is receiving benefits from
SNAP, FDPIR
or
TANF,
as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter; if one child is receiving such benefits, all children in that family are considered to be directly certified;
(B) The child is a homeless child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(C) The child is a runaway child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(D) The child is a migrant child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter;
(E) The child is a Head Start child, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter; or
(F) The child is a foster child as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
(15) Comply with the requirements of the Department's regulations respecting nondiscrimination (7 CFR part 15).
(f) Nothing contained in this part shall prevent the State Agency from imposing additional requirements for participation in the program which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part.
(g)
Program evaluations.
Local educational agencies, school food authorities, schools, and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(h) Local educational agencies must comply with the provisions of § 210.31 of this chapter regarding the development, implementation, periodic review and update, and public notification of the local school wellness policy.
(44 U.S.C. 3506; sec. 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 533 (42 U.S.C. 1759a, 1773 and 1757); Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-647, 80 Stat. 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[32 FR 34, Jan. 5, 1967]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 220.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 220.8
Meal requirements for breakfasts.
(a)
General requirements.
This section contains the meal requirements applicable to school breakfasts for students in grades K through 12, and for children under the age of 5. In general, school food authorities must ensure that participating schools provide nutritious, well-balanced, and age-appropriate breakfasts to all the children they serve to improve their diet and safeguard their health.
(1)
General nutrition requirements.
School breakfasts offered to children age 5 and older must meet, at a minimum, the meal requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Schools must follow a food-based menu planning approach and produce enough food to offer each child the quantities specified in the meal pattern established in paragraph (c) of this section for each age/grade group served in the school. In addition, school breakfasts must meet the dietary specifications in paragraph (f) of this section. Schools offering breakfasts to children ages 1 to 4 and infants must meet the meal pattern requirements in paragraphs (o) and (p) of this section, as applicable. When breakfast is served in the cafeteria, schools must make plain potable water available and accessible without restriction to children at no charge.
(2)
Unit pricing.
Schools must price each meal as a unit. The price of a reimbursable breakfast does not change if the student does not take a food item or requests smaller portions. Schools must identify, near or at the beginning of the serving line(s), the food items that constitute the unit-priced reimbursable school meal(s).
(3)
Production and menu records.
Schools or school food authorities, as applicable, must keep production and menu records for the meals they produce. These records must show how the meals offered contribute to the required meal components and food quantities for each age/grade group every day. Schools or school food authorities must maintain records of the latest nutritional analysis of the school menus conducted by the State agency. Information on maintaining production and menu records may be found in FNS guidance.
(b)
Meal requirements for school breakfasts.
School breakfasts for children ages 5 and older must reflect food and nutrition requirements specified by the Secretary. Compliance with these requirements is measured as follows:
(1) On a daily basis:
(i) Meals offered to each age/grade group must include the meal components and food quantities specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) Meal selected by each student must have the number of meal components required for a reimbursable meal and include at least one fruit or vegetable.
(2) Over a 5-day school week:
(i) Average calorie content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must be within the minimum and maximum calorie levels specified in paragraph (f) of this section;
(ii) Average saturated fat content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must be less than 10 percent of total calories as specified in paragraph (f) of this section;
(iii) By July 1, 2027, average added sugars content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must be less than 10 percent of total calories as specified in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(iv) Average sodium content of the meals offered to each age/grade group must not exceed the maximum level specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(c)
Meal pattern for school breakfasts for grades K through 12.
A school must offer the meal components and quantities required in the breakfast meal pattern established in the following table:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
) Introductory Text—School Breakfast Program Meal Pattern
Meal components
Amount of food
1
per week (minimum per day)
Grades K-5
Grades 6-8
Grades 9-12
Fruits (cups)
2
5 (1)
5 (1)
5 (1)
Vegetables (cups)
2
0
0
0
Dark Green Subgroup
0
0
0
Red/Orange Subgroup
0
0
0
Beans, Peas, and Lentils Subgroup
0
0
0
Starchy Subgroup
0
0
0
Other Vegetables Subgroup
0
0
0
Grains or Meats/Meat Alternates (oz. eq)
3
7-10 (1)
8-10 (1)
9-10 (1)
Fluid Milk (cups)
4
5 (1)
5 (1)
5 (1)
Dietary Specifications: Daily Amount Based on the Average for a 5-Day Week
5
Minimum-Maximum Calories (kcal)
350-500
400-550
450-600
Saturated Fat (% of total calories)
10
10
10
Added Sugars (% of total calories)
10
10
10
Sodium Limit: In place through June 30, 2027
≤540 mg
≤600 mg
≤640 mg
Sodium Limit: Must be implemented by July 1, 2027
≤485 mg
≤535 mg
≤570 mg
1
Food items included in each group and subgroup and amount equivalents.
2
Minimum creditable serving is
1/8
cup. Schools must offer 1 cup of fruit daily and 5 cups of fruit weekly. Schools may substitute vegetables for fruit at breakfast as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
3
Minimum creditable serving is 0.25 oz. eq. School may offer grains, meats/meat alternates, or a combination of both to meet the daily and weekly ounce equivalents for this combined component. At least 80 percent of grains offered weekly at breakfast must be whole grain-rich as defined in § 210.2 of this chapter, and the remaining grain items offered must be enriched.
4
Minimum creditable serving is 8 fluid ounces. All fluid milk must be fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 percent fat or less) and must meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.
5
By July 1, 2027, schools must meet the dietary specification for added sugars. Schools must meet the sodium limits by the dates specified in this chart. Discretionary sources of calories may be added to the meal pattern if within the dietary specifications.
(1)
Age/grade groups.
Schools must plan menus for students using the following age/grade groups: Grades K-5 (ages 5-10), grades 6-8 (ages 11-13), and grades 9-12 (ages 14-18). If an unusual grade configuration in a school prevents the use of the established age/grade groups, students in grades K-5 and grades 6-8 may be offered the same food quantities at breakfast provided that the calorie and sodium standards for each age/grade group are met. No customization of the established age/grade groups is allowed.
(2)
Meal components.
Schools must offer students in each age/grade group the meal components specified in meal pattern in this paragraph (c). Meal component descriptions in § 210.10 of this chapter apply to this Program.
(i)
Fruits component.
Schools must offer daily the fruit quantities specified in the breakfast meal pattern in this paragraph (c). Fruits that are fresh, frozen, or dried, or canned in light syrup, water or fruit juice may be offered to meet the fruits component requirements. Vegetables may be offered in place of all or part of the required fruits at breakfast. Schools that choose to offer vegetables in place of fruits at breakfast one day per school week may offer any vegetables, including starchy vegetables. Schools that choose to offer vegetables in place of fruits at breakfast two or more days per school week must offer at least two different vegetable subgroups as defined in § 210.10(c)(2)(ii) of this chapter. All fruits are credited based on their volume as served, except that
1/4
cup of dried fruit counts as
1/2
cup of fruit. Only pasteurized, full-strength fruit juice may be offered, and may be credited to meet no more than one-half of the fruit component.
(ii)
Vegetables component.
Schools are not required to offer vegetables as part of the breakfast menu but may offer vegetables to meet part or all of the fruit requirement. Schools that choose to offer vegetables in place of fruits at breakfast one day per school week may offer any vegetables, including starchy vegetables. Schools that choose to offer vegetables in place of fruits at breakfast two or more days more than one day per school week must offer vegetables from at least two different vegetable subgroups as defined in § 210.10(c)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Fresh, frozen, or canned vegetables and dry beans, peas, and lentils may be offered to meet the fruit requirement. All
vegetables are credited based on their volume as served, except that 1 cup of leafy greens counts as
1/2
cup of vegetables and tomato paste and tomato puree are credited based on calculated volume of the whole food equivalency. Pasteurized, full-strength vegetable juice may be offered to meet no more than one-half of the vegetable component. Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a vegetable or as a meat/meat alternate but not as both in the same dish.
(iii)
Grains.
Grains offered at breakfast count toward the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component. Schools may offer grains, meats/meat alternates, or a combination of both to meet the daily and weekly ounce equivalents for this combined component. Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
(A)
Whole grain-rich requirement.
Whole grain-rich is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched. At least 80 percent of grains offered at breakfast weekly, based on ounce equivalents, must meet the whole grain-rich criteria as defined in § 220.2, and the remaining grain items offered must be enriched.
(B)
Breakfast cereals.
By July 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
(C)
Daily and weekly servings.
The grains component is based on minimum daily servings plus total servings over a 5-day school week. Schools serving breakfast 6 or 7 days per week must increase the weekly grains quantity by approximately 20 percent (
1/5
) for each additional day. When schools operate less than 5 days per week, they may decrease the weekly quantity by approximately 20 percent (
1/5
) for each day less than 5.
(iv)
Meats/meat alternates.
Meats/meat alternates offered at breakfast count toward the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component. Schools may offer grains, meats/meat alternates, or a combination of both to meet the daily and weekly ounce equivalents for this combined component. Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
(A)
Enriched macaroni.
Enriched macaroni with fortified protein, as defined in appendix A to part 210 of this chapter, may be used to meet part of the meats/meat alternates requirement when used as specified in appendix A to part 210.
(B)
Nuts and seeds.
Nuts and seeds and their butters are allowed as meat alternates. Acorns, chestnuts, and coconuts do not credit as meat alternates because of their low protein and iron content. Nut and seed meals or flours may credit only if they meet the requirements for Alternate Protein Products established in appendix A to this part.
(C)
Yogurt.
Yogurt may be offered to meet all or part of the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component. Yogurt may be plain or flavored, unsweetened or sweetened. By July 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Noncommercial and/or non-standardized yogurt products, such as frozen yogurt, drinkable yogurt products, homemade yogurt, yogurt flavored products, yogurt bars, yogurt covered fruits and/or nuts or similar products are not creditable. Four ounces (weight) or
1/2
cup (volume) of yogurt equals one ounce of the meats/meat alternates requirement.
(D)
Tofu and soy products.
Commercial tofu and soy products may be offered to meet all or part of the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component. Noncommercial and/or non-standardized tofu and products are not creditable.
(E)
Beans, peas, and lentils.
Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be used to meet all or part of the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component. Beans, peas, and lentils are identified in this section and include foods such as black beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, kidney beans, mature lima beans, navy beans, pinto beans, and split peas. Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a vegetable or as a meat/meat alternate but not as both in the same dish.
(F)
Other meat alternates.
Other meat alternates, such as cheese and eggs, may be used to meet all or part of the
combined grains and meats/meat alternates component.
(v)
Fluid milk component.
Fluid milk must be offered daily in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Grain substitutions.
(i) Schools in American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands may serve any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, to meet the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component.
(ii) School food authorities and schools that are tribally operated, operated by the Bureau of Indian Education, and that serve primarily American Indian or Alaska Native children, may serve any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, to meet the combined grains and meats/meat alternates component.
(4)
Traditional Indigenous foods.
Traditional Indigenous foods may credit toward the required meal components. Information on food crediting may be found in FNS guidance. Schools are encouraged to serve traditional Indigenous foods as part of their breakfast service. Per the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2014, as amended (25 U.S.C. 1685(b)(5)) traditional foods means food that has traditionally been prepared and consumed by an American Indian tribe, including wild game meat; fish; seafood; marine mammals; plants; and berries.
(d)
Fluid milk requirements.
Schools must offer students a variety (at least two different options) of fluid milk at breakfast daily. All fluid milk must be fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 percent fat or less). Milk with higher fat content is not creditable. Low-fat or fat-free lactose-free and reduced-lactose fluid milk may also be offered. Milk may be flavored or unflavored, provided that unflavored milk is offered at each meal service. By July 1, 2025, flavored milk must contain no more than 10 grams of added sugars per 8 fluid ounces, or for flavored milk sold as competitive food for middle and high schools, 15 grams of added sugars per 12 fluid ounces. Schools must also comply with other applicable fluid milk requirements in § 210.10(d) of this chapter.
(e)
Offer versus serve for grades K through 12.
School breakfast must offer daily at least the three meal components required in the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section. To exercise the offer versus serve option at breakfast, a school food authority or school must offer a minimum of four food items daily as part of the required components. Under offer versus serve, students are allowed to decline one of the four food items, provided that students select at least
1/2
cup of the fruit component for a reimbursable meal. If only three food items are offered at breakfast, school food authorities or schools may not exercise the offer versus serve option.
(f)
Dietary specifications
—(1)
Calories.
School breakfasts offered to each age/grade group must meet, on average over the school week, the minimum and maximum calorie levels specified in the following table:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
f
)(1)—School Breakfast Program Calorie Ranges
Grades K-5
Grades 6-8
Grades 9-12
Average Daily Minimum-Maximum Calories (kcal)
1
350-500
400-550
450-600
1
The average daily amount must fall within the minimum and maximum levels. Discretionary sources of calories may be added to the meal pattern if within the dietary specifications.
(2)
Saturated fat.
School breakfast offered to all age/grade groups must, on average over the school week, provide less than 10 percent of total calories from saturated fat.
(3)
Added sugars.
By July 1, 2027, school breakfasts offered to all age/grade groups must, on average over the school week, provide less than 10 percent of total calories from added sugars.
(4)
Sodium.
School breakfasts offered to each age/grade group must meet, on average over the school week, the levels of sodium specified in the following table within the established deadlines:
Table 3 to Paragraph (
f
)(4)—School Breakfast Program Sodium Limits
Age/grade group
Sodium limit:
in place through
June 30, 2027
(mg)
Sodium limit:
must be
implemented by
July 1, 2027
(mg)
Grades K-5
≤540
≤485
Grades 6-8
≤600
≤535
Grades 9-12
≤640
≤570
(g)
Compliance assistance.
The State agency and school food authority must provide technical assistance and training to assist schools in planning breakfasts that meet the meal pattern in paragraph (c) of this section, the dietary specifications established in paragraph (f) of this section, and the meal pattern in paragraphs (o) and (p) of this section, as applicable. Compliance assistance may be offered during training, onsite visits, and/or administrative reviews.
(h)
State agency responsibilities for monitoring dietary specifications.
When required by the Administrative Review process set forth in § 210.18 of this chapter, the State agency must conduct a weighted nutrient analysis to evaluate the average levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium of the breakfasts offered to students in grades K-12 during one week within the review period. The nutrient analysis must be conducted in accordance with the procedures established in § 210.10(i)(3) of this chapter. If the results of the nutrient analysis indicate that the school breakfasts do not meet the specifications for calories, saturated fat, added sugars, or sodium specified in paragraph (f) of this section, the State agency or school food authority must provide technical assistance and require the reviewed school to take corrective action to meet the requirements.
(i)
Nutrient analyses of school meals.
Any nutrient analysis of school breakfasts conducted under the administrative review process set forth in § 210.18 of this chapter must be performed in accordance with the procedures established in § 210.10(i) of this chapter. The purpose of the nutrient analysis is to determine the average levels of calories, saturated fat, added sugars, and sodium in the breakfasts offered to each age grade group over a school week.
(j)
Responsibility for monitoring meal requirements.
Compliance with the applicable breakfast requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, including the dietary specifications, and paragraphs (o) and (p) of this section will be monitored by the State agency through administrative reviews authorized in § 210.18 of this chapter.
(k)
Menu choices at breakfast.
The requirements in § 210.10(k) of this chapter also apply to this Program.
(l)
Requirements for breakfast period
—(1)
Timing.
Schools must offer breakfasts meeting the requirements of this section at or near the beginning of the school day.
(2) [Reserved]
(m)
Modifications and variations in reimbursable meals.
The requirements in § 210.10(m) of this chapter also apply to this Program.
(n)
Nutrition disclosure.
The requirements in § 210.10(n) of this chapter also apply to this Program.
(o)
Breakfast requirements for preschoolers
—(1)
Breakfasts served to preschoolers.
Schools serving breakfast to preschoolers under the School Breakfast Program must serve the meal components and quantities required in the breakfast meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program under § 226.20(a), (c)(1), and (d) of this chapter. In addition, schools serving breakfasts to this age group must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3), (g), and (k) through (m) of this section, as applicable.
(2)
Preschooler breakfast meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at breakfast are as follows:
Table 4 to Paragraph (
o
)(2)—Preschool Breakfast Meal Pattern
[Select the appropriate components for a reimbursable meal]
Meal components and food items
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Fluid Milk
2
4 fluid ounces
6 fluid ounces.
Vegetables, Fruits, or portions of both
3
1/4
cup
1/2
cup.
Grains (oz. eq.)
4
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent.
1
Must serve all three components for a reimbursable meal.
2
Must be unflavored whole milk for children age one. Must be unflavored low-fat (1 percent) or unflavored fat-free (skim) milk for children two through five years old.
3
Pasteurized full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal, including snack, per day.
4
At least one serving per day, across all eating occasions, must be whole grain-rich. Grain-based desserts do not count toward meeting the grains requirement. Meats/meat alternates may be offered in place of the entire grains requirement, up to 3 times per week at breakfast. One ounce equivalent of a meat/meat alternate credits equal to one ounce equivalent of grains. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items and meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
(p)
Breakfast requirements for infants
—(1)
Breakfasts served to infants.
Schools serving breakfasts to infants ages birth through 11 months under the School Breakfast Program must serve the meal components and quantities required in the breakfast meal pattern established for the Child and Adult Care Food Program, under § 226.20(a), (b), and (d) of this chapter. In addition, schools serving breakfasts to infants must comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (c)(3), (g), and (k) through (m) of this section as applicable.
(2)
Infant breakfast meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at breakfast are as follows:
Table 5 to Paragraph (
p
)(2)—Infant Breakfast Meal Pattern
Birth through 5 months
6 through 11 months
4-6 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula
2
6-8 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula;
2
and
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal;
2 3
or
0-4 tablespoons meat, fish, poultry, whole egg, cooked dry beans, peas, or lentils; or
0-2 ounces of cheese; or
0-4 ounces (volume) of cottage cheese; or
0-4 ounces or
1/2
cup of yogurt;
4
or a combination of the above;
5
and
0-2 tablespoons vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both.
5 6
1
Breast milk or formula, or portions of both, must be served; however, it is recommended that breast milk be served from birth through 11 months. For some breastfed infants who regularly consume less than the minimum amount of breast milk per feeding, a serving of less than the minimum amount of breast milk may be offered, with additional breast milk offered at a later time if the infant will consume more.
2
Infant formula and dry infant cereal must be iron-fortified.
3
Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce).
5
A serving of this component is required when the infant is developmentally ready to accept it.
6
Fruit and vegetable juices must not be served.
(q)
Severability.
If any provision of this section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstances, it shall be severable from this section and not affect the remainder thereof. In the event of such holding of invalidity or unenforceability of a provision, the meal pattern requirements covered by that provision reverts to the version immediately preceding the invalidated provision.
[77 FR 4154, Jan. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 39093, June 28, 2013; 81 FR 24375, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 75675, Nov. 1, 2016; 82 FR 56714, Nov. 30, 2017; 83 FR 63790, Dec. 12, 2018; 84 FR 50292, Sept. 25, 2019; 85 FR 7854, Feb. 12, 2020; 85 FR 74849, Nov. 24, 2020; 86 FR 57546, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 7006, Feb. 7, 2022; 87 FR 47332, Aug. 3, 2022; 87 FR 52329, Aug. 25, 2022; 89 FR 32080, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 220.9
Reimbursement payments.
(a) State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, shall make reimbursement payments to schools only in connection with breakfasts meeting the requirements of § 220.8, and reported in accordance with § 220.11(b) of this part. School Food Authorities shall plan for and prepare breakfasts on the basis of participation trends, with the objective of providing one breakfast per child per day. Production and participation records shall be maintained to demonstrate positive action toward this objective. In recognition of the fluctuation in participation levels which makes it difficult to precisely estimate the number of breakfasts needed and to reduce the resultant waste, any excess breakfasts that are prepared may be served to eligible children and may be claimed for reimbursement unless the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, determines that the School Food Authority has failed to plan and prepare breakfasts with the objective of providing one breakfast per child per day. In no event shall the School Food Authority claim reimbursement for free and reduced price breakfasts in excess of the number of children approved for free and reduced price meals.
(b) The rates of reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools not in severe need are the applicable national average payment factors for breakfasts. The maximum rates of reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools determined to be in severe need are those prescribed by the Secretary. National average payment factors and maximum rates of reimbursement for the School Breakfast Program shall be prescribed annually by the Secretary in the
Federal Register.
(c) The total reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools not in severe need, and schools in severe need during the school year shall not exceed the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the total numbers of such free, reduced price and paid breakfasts, respectively, by the applicable rate of reimbursement for each type of breakfast as prescribed for the school year.
(d) The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall determine whether a school is in severe need based on the following eligibility criteria:
(1) The school is participating in or desiring to initiate a breakfast program; and
(2) At least 40 percent of the lunches served to students at the school in the second preceding school year were served free or at a reduced price. Schools that did not serve lunches in the second preceding year and that would like to receive reimbursement at the severe need rate may apply to their administering State agency. The administering State agency shall approve or deny such requests in accordance with guidance, issued by the Secretary, that determines that the second preceding school year requirement would otherwise have been met.
(Sec. 6, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3620 (42 U.S.C. 1776; secs. 801, 803, 812; Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535, 42 U.S.C. 1753, 1759(a), 1758, 1773; sec. 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 533 (42 U.S.C. 1759a, 1773 and 1757); 44 U.S.C. 3506))
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34760, Aug. 17, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 29, 44 FR 48159, Aug. 17, 1979; Amdt. 38, 46 FR 50928, Oct. 16, 1981; 46 FR 51368, Oct. 20, 1981; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 47 FR 31375, July 20, 1982; 48 FR 40196, 40197, Sept. 6, 1983; 60 FR 31222, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26923, May 9, 2000; 70 FR 66249, Nov. 2, 2005]
§ 220.10
Effective date for reimbursement.
Reimbursement payments under the School Breakfast Program may be made only to School Food Authorities operating under an agreement with the State Agency or the Department, and may be made only after execution of the agreement. Such payments may include reimbursement in connection with breakfasts served in accordance with provisions of the program in the calendar month preceding the calendar month in which the agreement is executed.
[32 FR 35, Jan. 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 9, 37 FR 9613, May 13, 1972]
§ 220.11
Reimbursement procedures.
(a) To be entitled to reimbursement under this part, each School Food Authority shall submit to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, a monthly Claim for Reimbursement.
(b) Claims for Reimbursement shall include data in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the Reports of School Program Operations required under § 220.13(b)(2). Unless otherwise approved by FNS, the Claim for Reimbursement for any month shall include only breakfasts served in that month except if the first or last month of Program operations for any year contains 10 operating days or less, such month may be added to the Claim for Reimbursement for the appropriate adjacent month; however, Claims for Reimbursement may not combine operations occurring in two fiscal years. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, the SFA shall be able to use a common claim form with respect to claims for reimbursement for meals served under those programs. A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked and/or submitted to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, not later than 60 days following the last day of the full month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not postmarked and/or submitted within 60 days shall not be paid with Program funds unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted. The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement as determined necessary through its claim review process or otherwise. In taking such corrective action, State agencies may make upward adjustments in Program funds claimed on claims filed within the 60 day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the claim month and are reflected in the final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for the claim month which is required under § 220.13(b)(2). Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-10 for the claim month shall not be made unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments in Program funds claimed shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.
(c) Where a school participates in both the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, the State agency or FNSRO, where applicable, may authorize the submission of one claim for reimbursement to cover both programs.
(d) The school food authority shall establish internal controls which ensure the accuracy of breakfast counts prior to the submission of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. At a minimum, these internal controls shall include: an on-site review of the breakfast counting and claiming system employed by each school within the jurisdiction of the school food authority; comparisons of daily free, reduced price and paid breakfast counts against data which will assist in the identification of breakfast counts in excess of the number of free, reduced price and paid breakfasts served each day to children eligible for such breakfasts; and a system for following up on those breakfast counts which suggest the likelihood of breakfast counting problems.
(1)
On-site reviews.
Every school year, each school food authority with more than one school shall perform no less than one on-site review of the breakfast counting and claiming system and the readily observable general areas of review identified under § 210.18(h) of this chapter, as specified by FNS, for a minimum of 50 percent of schools under its jurisdiction with every school within the jurisdiction being reviewed at least once every two years. The on-site review shall take place prior to February 1 of each school year. Further, if the review discloses problems with a school's meal counting or claiming procedures or general review areas, the school food authority shall ensure that the school implements corrective action, and within 45 days of the review, conduct a follow-up on-site review to determine that the corrective action resolved the problems. Each on-site review shall ensure that the school's claim is based on the counting system and that the counting system, as implemented, yields the actual number of reimbursable free, reduced price and paid breakfasts, respectively, served for each day of operation.
(2)
School food authority claims review process.
Prior to the submission of a
monthly Claim for Reimbursement, each school food authority shall review the breakfast count data for each school under its jurisdiction to ensure the accuracy of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement. The objective of this review is to ensure that monthly claims include only the number of free, reduced price and paid breakfasts served on any day of operation to children currently eligible for such breakfasts.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may advance funds available for the School Breakfast Program to a School Food Authority in an amount equal to the reimbursement estimated for the total number of breakfasts, including free and reduced price breakfasts, to be served to children for 1 month. The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall require School Food Authorities who receive advances of funds under the provisions of this paragraph to make timely submissions of claims for reimbursement on a monthly basis and shall suspend advances of funds in the absence of such timely submissions. Following the receipt of claims the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall make such adjustments as are necessary in such advances of funds to insure that the total amount of reimbursement received by a School Food Authority for the fiscal year will not exceed an amount equal to the number of breakfasts, including free and reduced price breakfast, served to children times the respective rates of reimbursement assigned by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, in accordance with § 220.9.
(Title 1, Chapter I, Pub. L. 96-38, 93 Stat. 98 (42 U.S.C. 1776a); secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535, 42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760; sec. 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 533 (42 U.S.C. 1759a, 1773, 1757); Pub. L. 97-370, 96 Stat. 1806)
[32 FR 35, Jan. 5, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 9, 37 FR 9613, May 13, 1972; 40 FR 30924, July 24, 1975; 45 FR 82622, Dec. 16, 1980; 47 FR 31376, July 20, 1982; 48 FR 40196, Sept. 6, 1983; Amdt. 49, 49 FR 18987, May 4, 1984; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999; 81 FR 50193, July 29, 2016]
§ 220.12
Competitive food services.
School food authorities must comply with the competitive food service and standards requirements specified in § 210.11 of this chapter.
[78 FR 39093, June 28, 2013]
§ 220.13
Special responsibilities of State agencies.
(a) [Reserved]
(a-1) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall require each School Food Authority of a school participating in the School Breakfast Program to develop and file for approval a free and reduced price policy statement in accordance with paragraph (a) of § 220.7.
(b)
Records and reports.
(1) Each State agency shall maintain Program records as necessary to support the reimbursement payments made to School Food Authorities under § 220.9 and the reports submitted to FNS under § 220.13(b)(2). The records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm, and shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of submission of the final Financial Status Report for the fiscal year, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(2) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for each month which shall be limited to claims submitted in accordance with § 220.11(b) and which shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State agency's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary. Adjustments shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be postmarked and/
or submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. A final Financial Status Report for each fiscal year shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year. FNS shall not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid Program obligations reported later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.
(3) Each State agency must keep the records supplied by school food authorities showing the number of food safety inspections obtained by schools for the current and three most recent school years.
(c) Each State agency must promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of either program, and must take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. State agencies must maintain on file evidence of such investigations and actions. FNS will make investigations at the request of the State agency or where FNS determines investigations are appropriate.
(d) The State agency shall release to FNS any Federal funds made available to it under the Act which are unobligated at the end of each fiscal year. Any such funds shall remain available to FNS for the purposes of the programs authorized by the Act until expended. Release of funds by the State Agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 30 days following demand by FNSRO and shall be reflected by related adjustment in the State Agency's Letter of Credit.
(e) State agencies shall provide School Food Authorities with monthly information on foods available in plentiful supply, based on information provided by the Department.
(f) Each State agency shall provide program assistance as follows:
(1) Each State agency or FNSRO where applicable shall provide consultative, technical, and managerial personnel to administer programs, monitor performance, and measure progress toward achieving program goals.
(2) State agencies must conduct administrative reviews of the school meal programs specified in § 210.18 of this chapter to ensure that schools participating in the designated programs comply with the provisions of this title. The reviews of selected schools must focus on compliance with the critical and general areas of review identified in § 210.18 for each program, as applicable, and must be conducted as specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual
for each program. School food authorities may appeal a denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement or withholding of payment arising from review activity conducted by the State agency under § 210.18 of this chapter or by FNS under § 210.29(d)(2) of this chapter. Any such appeal shall be subject to the procedures set forth under § 210.18(p) of this chapter or § 210.29(d)(3) of this chapter, as appropriate.
(3) For the purposes of compliance with the meal requirements in § 220.8, the State agency must follow the provisions specified in § 210.18(g) of this chapter, as applicable.
(4) State agency assistance must include visits to participating schools selected for administrative reviews under § 210.18 of this chapter to ensure compliance with program regulations and with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (part 15 of this title), issued under title VI, of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(5) Documentation of such assistance shall be maintained on file by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable.
(g) State agencies shall adequately safeguard all assets and monitor resource management as required under § 210.18 of this chapter, and in conformance with the procedures specified in the FNS
Administrative Review Manual,
to assure that assets are used solely for authorized purposes.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) Each State agency, or FNS where applicable, shall establish a financial management system under which School Food Authorities shall account for all revenues and expenditures of their nonprofit school food service. The system shall prescribe the allowability of nonprofit school food service expenditures in accordance with this part and
2 CFR part 200, subpart D and E, as applicable, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable. The system shall permit determination of school food service net cash resources, and shall include any criteria for approval of net cash resources in excess of three months average expenditures. In addition, School Food Authorities shall be required to account separately for other food services which are operated by the School Food Authority.
(j) During audits, administrative reviews, or by other means, State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, shall be responsible for monitoring the net cash resources of the nonprofit school food service of each School Food Authority participating in the Program. In the event that such resources exceed three months average expenditures for the School Food Authority's nonprofit school food service, or such amount as may be approved by the State agency or FNSRO where applicable, the State agency or FNSRO where applicable, may require the School Food Authority to reduce children's prices, improve food quality or take other actions designed to improve the nonprofit school food service. In the absence of any such action, adjustments in the rates of reimbursement under the Program shall be made.
(k) State agencies shall require compliance by School Food Authorities with applicable provisions of this part.
(l)
Program evaluations.
States, State agencies, and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(44 U.S.C. 3506; sec. 812, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1759a); sec. 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 533 (42 U.S.C. 1759a, 1773 and 1757); Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[32 FR 37, Jan. 5, 1967. Redesignated by Amdt. 2, 33 FR 14513, Sept. 27, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 220.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 220.14
Claims against school food authorities.
(a) State agencies shall disallow any portion of a claim and recover any payment made to a School Food Authority that was not properly payable under this part. State agencies will use their own procedures to disallow claims and recover overpayments already made.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The State agency may refer to FNS for determination any action it proposes to take under this section.
(d) The State agency shall maintain all records pertaining to action taken under this section. Such records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain.
(e) If FNS does not concur with the State agency's action in paying a claim or a reclaim, or in failing to collect an overpayment, FNS will assert a claim against the State agency for the amount of such claim, reclaim, or overpayment. In all such cases the State agency will have full opportunity to submit to FNS evidence or information concerning the action taken. If, in the determination of FNS, the State agency's action was unwarranted, the State agency must promptly pay to FNS the amount of the claim, reclaim, or overpayment.
(f) The amounts recovered by the State agency from Schools may be utilized, first, to make payments to School Food Authorities for the purposes of the related program during the fiscal year for which the funds were initially available, and second to repay any State funds expended in the reimbursement of claims under the program and not otherwise repaid. Any amounts recovered which are not so utilized shall be returned to FNS in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(g) With respect to School Food Authorities of schools in which the program is administered by FNSRO, when FNSRO disallows a claim or a portion of a claim, or makes a demand for refund of an alleged overpayment, it shall notify the School Food Authority of the reasons for such disallowance or demand and the School Food Authority shall have full opportunity to submit evidence or to file reclaims for any amounts disallowed or demanded in the
same manner as that afforded in this section to School Food Authorities of schools in which the program is administered by State agencies.
(h) In the event that the State agency or FNSRO, where applicable, finds that a school food authority is failing to meet the requirements of § 220.8 of this part, the State agency or FNSRO need not disallow payment or collect an overpayment arising out of such failure, if the State agency or FNSRO takes such other action as, in its opinion, will have a corrective effect.
(i) The Secretary shall have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claim arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. The Secretary shall also have the authority to waive such claims if the Secretary determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the Program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of Title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.
(44 U.S.C. 3506; secs. 804, 816 and 817, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771 and 1785))
[32 FR 37, Jan. 5, 1967. Redesignated by Amdt. 2, 33 FR 14513, Sept. 27, 1968, and amended by Amdt. 9, 37 FR 9614, May 13, 1972; 40 FR 30925, July 24, 1975. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34757, 34760, Aug. 17, 1976; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; Amdt. 42, 47 FR 14134, Apr. 2, 1982; 60 FR 31222, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26931, May 9, 2000; 81 FR 50194, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32084, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 220.15
Management evaluations and audits.
(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and institution levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b) Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to schools) of all operations of the State agency under the programs covered by this part and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits (including visits to schools) of all operations of the State agency under such programs. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds under such programs, upon a reasonable request by FNS or OIG. OIG shall also have the right to make audits of the records and operations of any school.
(c) In conducting management evaluations, reviews, or audits in a fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard an overpayment if the overpayment does not exceed $600. A State agency may establish, through State law, regulation or procedure, an alternate disregard threshold that does not exceed $600. This disregard may be made once per each management evaluation, review, or audit per Program within a fiscal year. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
(Secs. 805 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1773); sec. 812, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1759a))
[40 FR 30925, July 24, 1975. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34757, 34760, Aug. 17, 1976; 43 FR 59825, Dec. 22, 1978; Amdt. 41, 47 FR 14135, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 43, 47 FR 18564, Apr. 30, 1982; Amdt. 56, 54 FR 2990, Jan. 23, 1989; 57 FR 38587, Aug. 26, 1992; 59 FR 1894, Jan. 13, 1994; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 30563, May 30, 2006; 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66491, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 220.16
Procurement standards.
(a)
General.
State agencies and school food authorities shall comply with the requirements of this part 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, which implement the applicable Office of Management and Budget Circulars, concerning the procurement of all goods and services with nonprofit school food service account funds.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, do not relieve the State agency or School Food Authority of any contractual responsibilities under its contract. The State agency or School Food Authority is the responsible authority, without recourse to
FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes but is not limited to: Source evaluation, protests, disputes, claims, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the local, State or Federal authority that has proper jurisdiction.
(c)
Procedures.
The State agency may elect to follow either the State laws, policies and procedures as authorized by 2 CFR 200.317, or the procurement standards for other governmental grantees and all governmental subgrantees in accordance with 2 CFR 200.318 through 2 CFR 200.326. Regardless of the option selected, States must ensure that all contracts include any clauses required by Federal statutes and executive orders and that the requirements of 2 CFR 200.326 are followed. The school food authority may use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and local laws and regulations, provided that procurements made with nonprofit school food service account funds adhere to the standards set forth in this part 2 CFR 200.326 and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Award as applicable. School food authority procedures must include a written code of standards of conduct meeting the minimum standards of 2 CFR 200.318, as applicable.
(1)
Pre-issuance review requirement.
The State agency may impose a pre-issuance review requirement on a school food authority's proposed procurement. The school food authority must make available, upon request of the State agency, its procurement documents, including but not limited to solicitation documents, specifications, evaluation criteria, procurement procedures, proposed contracts and contract terms. School food authorities shall comply with State agency requests for changes to procurement procedures and solicitation and contract documents to ensure that, to the State agency's satisfaction, such procedures and documents reflect applicable procurement and contract requirements and the requirements of this part.
(2)
Prototype solicitation documents and contracts.
The school food authority must obtain the State agency's prior written approval for any change made to prototype solicitation or contract documents before issuing the revised solicitation documents or execution of the revised contract.
(3)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a procurement failing to meet the requirements of this part.
(d)
Buy American
—(1)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this paragraph (d):
(i)
Domestic commodity or product
means:
(A) An agricultural commodity that is produced in the United States; and
(B) A food product that is processed in the United States substantially using agricultural commodities that are produced in the United States.
(ii)
Substantially using agriculture commodities that are produced in the United States
means over 51 percent of a food product must consist of agricultural commodities that were grown domestically.
(2)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a school food authority must purchase, to the maximum extent practicable, domestic commodities or products.
(3)
Required language.
School food authorities must include language requiring the purchase of foods that meet the Buy American requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section in all procurement procedures, solicitations, and contracts.
(4)
Limitations.
Paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section apply only to:
(i) A school food authority located in the contiguous United States; and
(ii) A purchase of domestic commodity or product for the school breakfast program under this part.
(5)
Exceptions.
The purchase of foods not meeting the definition in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is only permissible when the following criteria are met:
(i) The school food authority determines that one of the following limited exceptions is met:
(A) The product is listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at
48 CFR 25.104 and/or is not produced or manufactured in the U.S. in sufficient and reasonably available quantities of a satisfactory quality; or
(B) Competitive bids reveal the cost of a United States product is significantly higher than the non-domestic product.
(ii) Non-domestic food purchases (those that do not meet the definition of domestic commodity or product, as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) must not exceed the following caps by the established deadlines:
(A) By July 1, 2025, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 10 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(B) By July 1, 2028, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 8 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(C) By July 1, 2031, non-domestic food purchases must not exceed 5 percent of total annual commercial food costs that a school food authority purchases per school year.
(iii) School food authorities must maintain documentation, except when the item purchased is found on the FAR at 48 CFR 25.104 when using an exception under paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.
(iv) School food authorities must maintain documentation, to demonstrate that when using an exception under paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section their non-domestic food purchases do not exceed the annual threshold specified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section.
(6)
Harvested fish.
To meet the definition of a domestic commodity or product, harvested fish must meet the following requirements:
(i) Farmed fish must be harvested within the United States or any territory or possession of the United States; and
(ii) Wild caught fish must be harvested within the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States or by a United States flagged vessel.
(7)
Applicability to Hawaii.
Paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies to school food authorities in Hawaii with respect to domestic commodities or products that are produced in Hawaii in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of meals provided under the school breakfast program under this part.
(8)
Temporary accommodation.
For school food authorities that demonstrate they cannot meet the threshold, State agencies may provide an accommodation for temporary relief from the requirement as the State agency works with the school food authority to increase domestic purchases.
(e)
Cost reimbursable contracts
—(1)
Required provisions.
The school food authority must include the following provisions in all cost reimbursable contracts, including contracts with cost reimbursable provisions, and in solicitation documents prepared to obtain offers for such contracts:
(i) Allowable costs will be paid from the nonprofit school food service account to the contractor net of all discounts, rebates and other applicable credits accruing to or received by the contractor or any assignee under the contract, to the extent those credits are allocable to the allowable portion of the costs billed to the school food authority;
(ii)(A) The contractor must separately identify for each cost submitted for payment to the school food authority the amount of that cost that is allowable (can be paid from the nonprofit school food service account) and the amount that is unallowable (cannot be paid from the nonprofit school food service account), or;
(B) The contractor must exclude all unallowable costs from its billing documents and certify that only allowable costs are submitted for payment and records have been established that maintain the visibility of unallowable costs, including directly associated costs in a manner suitable for contract cost determination and verification;
(iii) The contractor's determination of its allowable costs must be made in compliance with the applicable Departmental and Program regulations and Office of Management and Budget cost circulars;
(iv) The contractor must identify the amount of each discount, rebate and other applicable credit on bills and invoices presented to the school food authority for payment and identify the
amount as a discount, rebate, or in the case of other applicable credits, the nature of the credit. If approved by the State agency, the school food authority may permit the contractor to report this information on a less frequent basis than monthly, but no less frequently than annually;
(v) The contractor must identify the method by which it will report discounts, rebates and other applicable credits allocable to the contract that are not reported prior to conclusion of the contract; and
(vi) The contractor must maintain documentation of costs and discounts, rebates, and other applicable credits, and must furnish such documentation upon request to the school food authority, the State agency, or the Department.
(2)
Prohibited expenditures.
No expenditure may be made from the nonprofit school food service account for any cost resulting from a cost reimbursable contract that fails to include the requirements of this section, nor may any expenditure be made from the nonprofit school food service account that permits or results in the contractor receiving payments in excess of the contractor's actual, net allowable costs.
(f)
Geographic preference.
(1) School food authorities participating in the Program, as well as State agencies making purchases on behalf of such school food authorities, may apply a geographic preference when procuring unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products, including the use of “locally grown”, “locally raised”, or “locally caught” as procurement specifications or selection criteria for unprocessed or minimally processed food items. When utilizing the geographic preference to procure such products, the school food authority making the purchase or the State agency making purchases on behalf of such school food authorities have the discretion to determine the local area to which the geographic preference option will be applied, so long as there are an appropriate number of qualified firms able to compete;
(2) For the purpose of applying the optional geographic preference in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, “unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products” means only those agricultural products that retain their inherent character. The effects of the following food handling and preservation techniques shall not be considered as changing an agricultural product into a product of a different kind or character: Cooling; refrigerating; freezing; size adjustment made by peeling, slicing, dicing, cutting, chopping, shucking, and grinding; forming ground products into patties without any additives or fillers; drying/dehydration; washing; packaging (such as placing eggs in cartons), vacuum packing and bagging (such as placing vegetables in bags or combining two or more types of vegetables or fruits in a single package); addition of ascorbic acid or other preservatives to prevent oxidation of produce; butchering livestock and poultry; cleaning fish; and the pasteurization of milk.
(Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[Amdt. 45, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 50743, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 61494, Oct. 31, 2007; 76 FR 22607, Apr. 22, 2011; 81 FR 66491, Sept. 28, 2016; 89 FR 32084, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 220.17
Prohibitions.
(a) In carrying out the provisions of this part, the Department shall not impose any requirements with respect to teaching personnel, curriculum, instructions, methods of instruction, and materials of instruction in any school as a condition for participation in the Program.
(b) The value of assistance to children under the Act shall not be considered to be income or resources for any purposes under any Federal or State laws, including, but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs. Expenditure of funds from State and local sources for the maintenance of food programs for children shall not be diminished as a result of funds received under the Act.
[32 FR 37, Jan. 5, 1967. Redesignated by Amdt. 2, 33 FR 14513, Sept. 27, 1968. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34757, 34760, Aug. 17, 1976; 64 FR 50743, Sept. 20, 1999]
§ 220.18
Withholding payments and establishing fines.
(a)
Withholding payments.
In accordance with 2 CFR 200.338 through 342, the State agency must withhold Program payments, in whole or in part, from any school food authority which has failed to comply with the provisions of this part. Program payments must be withheld until the school food authority takes corrective action that is satisfactory to the State agency, or gives evidence that such corrective actions will be taken, or until the State agency terminates the grant in accordance with § 220.19. Subsequent to the State agency's acceptance of the corrective actions, payments will be released for any breakfasts served in accordance with the provisions of this part during the period the payments were withheld.
(b)
Fines.
(1) The State agency may establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that the school food authority or a school under its agreement has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the Program or a Child Nutrition Program under parts 225 or 226 of this chapter;
(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the school food authority or school had been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements under this part or under parts 225 or 226 of this chapter.
(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any school food authority when it has determined that the school food authority or school meets the criteria set forth under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Funds used to pay a fine established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. The State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the school food authority or school for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data are available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year.
(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing a fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the school food authority written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:
(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;
(ii) Inform the school food authority that it may appeal the fine, and advise the school food authority of the appeal procedures established under § 210.18(p) of this chapter;
(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the school food authority not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.
(5) Any school food authority subject to a fine under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the school food authority must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any school food authority seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.
(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.
(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against a school food authority and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.
[88 FR 57849, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 220.19
Suspension, termination and grant closeout procedures.
Whenever it is determined that a State agency has materially failed to comply with the provisions of this
part, or with FNS guidelines and instructions, FNS may suspend or terminate the Program in whole, or in part, or take any other action as may be available and appropriate. A State agency may also terminate the Program by mutual agreement with FNS. FNS and the State agency shall comply with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 concerning grant suspension, termination and closeout procedures. Furthermore, the State agency or FNSRO were applicable, shall apply these provisions to suspension or termination of the Program in School Food Authorities.
[Amdt. 49, 49 FR 18988, May 4, 1984, as amended at 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006. Redesignated at 72 FR 61495, Oct. 31, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 66491, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 220.20
Free and reduced price breakfasts.
The determination of the children to whom free and reduced price breakfasts are to be served because of inability to pay the full price thereof, and the serving of the breakfasts to such children, shall be effected in accordance with part 245 of this chapter.
[Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34760, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 72 FR 61495, Oct. 31, 2007]
§ 220.21
Program information.
Persons seeking information about this Program should contact their State administering agency or the appropriate FNSRO. The FNS website has contact information for State agencies at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/contacts
and FNSROs at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-regional-offices.
[88 FR 57849, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 220.22
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where
requirements are described
Current OMB
control No.
220.3(e)
0584-0067
220.7(a),(d), (e)
0584-0012
220.8(a)(3), (o)
0584-0012
220.9(a)
0584-0012
220.11 (a)-(b)
0584-0012
220.13 (a-1), (b), (c), (e), (f)
0584-0012
0584-0594
220.14(d)
0584-0012
220.15
0584-0012
[81 FR 50194, July 29, 2016]
§ 220.23
Seamless Summer Option non-congregate meal service.
A school food authority participating in the National School Lunch Program's Seamless Summer Option, and which is approved to offer a non-congregate meal service, must comply with the provisions specified in § 210.34 of this chapter.
[88 FR 90347, Dec. 29, 2023]
Pt. 220, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 220—Alternate Foods for Meals

# Alternate Protein Products

# A. What Are the Criteria for Alternate Protein Products Used in the School Breakfast Program?
1. An alternate protein product used in meals planned under the food-based menu planning approaches in § 220.8(g), must meet all of the criteria in this section.
2. An alternate protein product whether used alone or in combination with meat or other meat alternates must meet the following criteria:
a. The alternate protein product must be processed so that some portion of the non-protein constituents of the food is removed. These alternate protein products must be safe and suitable edible products produced from plant or animal sources.
b. The biological quality of the protein in the alternate protein product must be at least 80 percent that of casein, determined by performing a Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS).
c. The alternate protein product must contain at least 18 percent protein by weight when fully hydrated or formulated. (“When hydrated or formulated” refers to a dry alternate protein product and the amount of water, fat, oil, colors, flavors or any other substances which have been added).
d. Manufacturers supplying an alternate protein product to participating schools or institutions must provide documentation that the product meets the criteria in paragraphs A.2. a through c of this appendix.
e. Manufacturers should provide information on the percent protein contained in the dry alternate protein product and on an as prepared basis.
f. For an alternate protein product mix, manufacturers should provide information on:
(1) The amount by weight of dry alternate protein product in the package;
(2) Hydration instructions; and
(3) instructions on how to combine the mix with meat or other meat alternates.

# B. How Are Alternate Protein Products Used in the School Breakfast Program?
1. Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use alternate protein products to fulfill all or part of the meat/meat alternate component discussed in § 220.8. The following terms and conditions apply:
a. The alternate protein product may be used alone or in combination with other food ingredients. Examples of combination items are beef patties, beef crumbles, pizza topping, meat loaf, meat sauce, taco filling, burritos, and tuna salad.
b. Alternate protein products may be used in the dry form (nonhydrated), partially hydrated or fully hydrated form. The moisture content of the fully hydrated alternate protein product (if prepared from a dry concentrated form) must be such that the mixture will have a minimum of 18 percent protein by weight or equivalent amount for the dry or partially hydrated form (based on the level that would be provided if the product were fully hydrated).

# C. How Are Commercially Prepared Products Used in the School Breakfast Program?
Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use a commercially prepared meat or other meat alternate products combined with alternate protein products or use a commercially prepared product that contains only alternate protein products.
(Secs. 804, 816, 817, and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771, 1773 and 1785))
[Amdt. 18, 39 FR 11249, Mar. 27, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 37027, Aug. 25, 1975; Amdt. 45, 48 FR 195, Jan. 4, 1983; Amdt. 57, 54 FR 13048, Mar. 30, 1989; 60 FR 31222, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 12436, Mar. 9, 2000; 65 FR 26923, May 9, 2000. Redesignated at 72 FR 61495, Oct. 31, 2007; 77 FR 4167, Jan. 26, 2012]
Appendix B to Part 220 [Reserved]
Pt. 220, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 220—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program
1. The Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program is a voluntary technical assistance program administered by the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) in conjunction with the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce (USDC) for the Child Nutrition Programs. This program essentially involves the review of a manufacturer's recipe or product formulation to determine the contribution a serving of a commercially prepared product makes toward meal pattern requirements and a review of the CN label statement to ensure its accuracy. CN labeled products must be produced in accordance with all requirements set forth in this rule.
2. Products eligible for CN labels are as follows:
(a) Commercially prepared food products that contribute significantly to the meat/meat alternate component of meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10 or 210.10a, whichever is applicable, 225.21, and 226.20 and are served in the main dish.
(b) Juice drinks and juice drink products that contain a minimum of 50 percent full-strength juice by volume.
3. For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions apply:
(a) “CN label” is a food product label that contains a CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) below.
(b) The “CN logo” (as shown below) is a distinct border which is used around the edges of a “CN label statement” as defined in paragraph 3(c).
EC17SE91.003
(c) The “CN label statement” includes the following:
(1) The product identification number (assigned by FNS),
(2) The statement of the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10 or 210.10a, whichever is applicable, 220.8, 225.21, and 226.20. The statement shall identify the contribution of a specific portion of a meat/meat alternate product toward the meat/meat alternate, bread/bread alternate, and/or vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements. For juice drinks and juice drink products the statement shall identify their contribution toward the vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements,
(3) Statement specifying that the use of the CN logo and CN statement was authorized by FNS, and
(4) The approval date.
For example:
EC17SE91.004
(d)
Federal inspection
means inspection of food products by FSIS, AMS or USDC.
4. Food processors or manufacturers may use the CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) under the following terms and conditions:
(a) The CN label must be reviewed and approved at the national level by the Food and Nutrition Service and appropriate USDA or USDC Federal agency responsible for the inspection of the product.
(b) The CN labeled product must be produced under Federal inspection by USDA or USDC. The Federal inspection must be performed in accordance with an approved partial or total quality control program or standards established by the appropriate Federal inspection service.
(c) The CN label statement must be printed as an integral part of the product label along with the product name, ingredient listing, the inspection shield or mark for the appropriate inspection program, the establishment number where appropriate, and the manufacturer's or distributor's name and address.
(1) The inspection marking for CN labeled non-meat, non-poultry, and non-seafood products with the exception of juice drinks and juice drink products is established as follows:
EC17SE91.005
(d) Yields for determining the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements must be calculated using the
Food Buying Guide for Child Nutrition Programs
(Program Aid Number 1331).
5. In the event a company uses the CN logo and CN label statement inappropriately, the company will be directed to discontinue the use of the logo and statement and the matter will be referred to the appropriate agency for action to be taken against the company.
6. Products that bear a CN label statement as set forth in paragraph 3(c) carry a warranty. This means that if a food service authority participating in the child nutrition programs purchases a CN labeled product and uses it in accordance with the manufacturer's directions, the school or institution will not have an audit claim filed against it for the CN labeled product for noncompliance with the meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10 or 210.10a, whichever is applicable, 220.8, 225.21, and 226.20. If a State or Federal auditor finds that a product that is CN labeled does not actually meet the meal pattern requirements claimed on the label, the auditor will report this finding to FNS. FNS will prepare a report of the findings and send it to the appropriate divisions of FSIS and AMS of the USDA, National Marine Fisheries Services of the USDC, Food and Drug Administration, or the Department of Justice for action against the company.
Any or all of the following courses of action may be taken:
(a) The company's CN label may be revoked for a specific period of time;
(b) The appropriate agency may pursue a misbranding or mislabeling action against the company producing the product;
(c) The company's name will be circulated to regional FNS offices;
(d) FNS will require the food service program involved to notify the State agency of the labeling violation.
7. FNS is authorized to issue operational policies, procedures, and instructions for the CN Labeling Program.
To apply for a CN label and to obtain additional information on CN label application
procedures write to: CN Labels, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302.
(National School Lunch Act, secs. 9, 13, 17; 42 U.S.C. 1758, 1761, 1766; 7 CFR 210.10, 220.8, 225.21, 226.20)
[49 FR 18457, May 1, 1984; 49 FR 45109, Nov. 15, 1984; 60 FR 31222, June 13, 1995; 65 FR 26923, May 9, 2000]
Pt. 225

# PART 225—SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
225.1
General purpose and scope.
225.2
Definitions.
225.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—State Agency Provisions
225.4
Program management and administration plan.
225.5
Payments to State agencies and use of Program funds.
225.6
State agency responsibilities.
225.7
Program monitoring and assistance.
225.8
Records and reports.
225.9
Program assistance to sponsors.
225.10
Audits and management evaluations.
225.11
Corrective action procedures.
225.12
Claims against sponsors.
225.13
Appeal procedures.

# Subpart C—Sponsor and Site Provisions
225.14
Requirements for sponsor participation.
225.15
Management responsibilities of sponsors.
225.16
Meal service requirements.

# Subpart D—General Administrative Provisions
225.17
Procurement standards.
225.18
Miscellaneous administrative provisions.
225.19
Program information.
225.20
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
Appendix A to Part 225—Alternate Foods for Meals
Appendix B to Part 225 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 225—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program

# Authority:
Secs. 9, 13 and 14, Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1758, 1761 and 1762a).

# Source:
54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 225.1
General purpose and scope.
This part establishes the regulations under which the Secretary will administer a Summer Food Service Program. Section 13 of the Act authorizes the Secretary to assist States through grants-in-aid to conduct nonprofit food service programs for children during the summer months and at other approved times. The primary purpose of the Program is to provide food service to children from needy areas during periods when area schools are closed for vacation.
§ 225.2
Definitions.
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Administrative costs
means costs incurred by a sponsor related to planning, organizing, and managing a food service under the Program, and excluding interest costs and operating costs.
Adult
means, for the purposes of the collection of the last four digits of social security numbers as a condition of eligibility for Program meals, any individual 21 years of age or older.
Advance payments
means financial assistance made available to a sponsor for its operating costs and/or administrative costs prior to the end of the month in which such costs will be incurred.
Areas in which poor economic conditions exist
means:
(1) The attendance area of a school in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children have been determined eligible for free or reduced-price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program;
(2) A geographic area where, based on the most recent census data available or information provided from a department of welfare or zoning commission, at least 50 percent of the children residing in that area are eligible for free or reduced-price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program;
(3) A geographic area where a site demonstrates, based on other approved sources, that at least 50 percent of the children enrolled at the site are eligible for free or reduced-price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program; or
(4) A closed enrolled site in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children at the site are eligible for free or reduced-price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, as determined by approval of applications in accordance with § 225.15(f).
Camps
means residential summer camps and nonresidential day camps which offer a regularly scheduled food service as part of an organized program for enrolled children. Nonresidential camp sites shall offer a continuous schedule of organized cultural or recreational programs for enrolled children between meal services.
Children
means:
(1) Persons 18 years of age and under; and
(2) Persons over 18 years of age who are determined by a State educational agency or a local public educational agency of a State to be mentally or physically disabled and who participate in a public or nonprofit private school program established for the mentally or physically disabled.
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP)
means the State medical assistance program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
).
Closed enrolled site
means a site which is open only to enrolled children, as opposed to the community at large, and in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children at the site are eligible for free or reduced-price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, as determined by approval of applications in accordance with § 225.15(f), or on the basis of documentation that the site meets paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of the definition of “Areas in which poor economic conditions exist” as provided in this section.
Conditional non-congregate site
means a site which qualifies for Program participation because it conducts a non-congregate meal service for eligible children in an area that does not meet the definition of “areas in which poor economic conditions exist” and is not a “Camp,” as defined in this section.
Congregate meal service
means a food service at which meals that are provided to children are consumed on site in a supervised setting.
Continuous school calendar
means a situation in which all or part of the student body of a school is (a) on a vacation for periods of 15 continuous school days or more during the period October through April and (b) in attendance at regularly scheduled classes during most of the period May through September.
Costs of obtaining food
means costs related to obtaining food for consumption by children. Such costs may include, in addition to the purchase price of agricultural commodities and other food, the cost of processing, distributing, transporting, storing, or handling any food purchased for, or donated to, the Program.
Current income
means income, as defined in § 225.15(f)(4)(vi), received during the month prior to application for free meals. If such income does not accurately reflect the household's annual income, income must be based on the projected annual household income. If the prior year's income provides an accurate reflection of the household's current annual income, the prior year may be used as a base for the projected annual income.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disclosure
means reveal or use individual children's program eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal eligibility process for a purpose other than for the purpose for which the information was obtained. The term refers to access, release, or transfer of personal data about children by means of print, tape,
microfilm, microfiche, electronic communication or any other means.
Documentation
means:
(1) The completion of the following information on a free meal application:
(i) Names of all household members;
(ii) Income received by each household member, identified by source of income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security and other cash income);
(iii) The signature of an adult household member; and
(iv) The last four digits of the Social Security number of the adult household member who signs the application, or an indication that the adult does not possess a Social Security number; or
(2) For a child who is a member of a household receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits, “documentation” means completion of only the following information on a free meal application:
(i) The name(s) and appropriate SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF case number(s) for the child(ren); and
(ii) The signature of an adult member of the household.
Excess funds
means the difference between any advance funding and reimbursement funding, when advance funds received by a sponsor are greater than the reimbursement amount earned by a sponsor.
Experienced site
means a site which, as determined by the State agency, has successfully participated in the Program in the prior year.
Experienced sponsor
means a sponsor which, as determined by the State agency, has successfully participated in the Program in the prior year.
Family
means a group of related or nonrelated individuals who are not residents of an institution or boarding house but who are living as one economic unit.
FDPIR household
means any individual or group of individuals which is currently certified to receive assistance as a household under the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.
Fiscal year
means the period beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
FNSRO
means the appropriate FNS Regional Office.
Food service management company
means any commercial enterprise or nonprofit organization with which a sponsor may contract for preparing unitized meals, with or without milk, for use in the Program, or for managing a sponsor's food service operations in accordance with the limitations set forth in § 225.15. Food service management companies may be: (a) Public agencies or entities; (b) private, nonprofit organizations; or (c) private, for-profit companies.
Foster child
means a child who is formally placed by a court or a State child welfare agency, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
Good standing
means the status of a program operator that meets its Program responsibilities, is current with its financial obligations, and, if applicable, has fully implemented all corrective actions within the required period of time.
Household
means “family,” as defined in this section.
Income accruing to the program
means all funds used by a sponsor in its food service program, including but not limited to all monies, other than program payments, received from Federal, State and local governments, from food sales to adults, and from any other source including cash donations or grants. Income accruing to the Program will be deducted from combined operating and administrative costs.
Income standards
means the family-size and income standards prescribed annually by the Secretary for determining eligibility for reduced price meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program.
Meals
means food which is served to children at a food service site and which meets the nutritional requirements set out in this part.
Medicaid
means the State medical assistance program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
).
Milk
means whole milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, and buttermilk. All milk must be fluid and pasteurized and must
meet State and local standards for the appropriate type of milk. Milk served may be flavored or unflavored. In Alaska, Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, if a sufficient supply of such types of fluid milk cannot be obtained, reconstituted or recombined milk may be used. All milk should contain Vitamins A and D at the levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration and at levels consistent with State and local standards for such milk.
Needy children
means children from families whose incomes are equal to or below the Secretary's published Child Nutrition Programs: Income Eligibility Guidelines.
Net cash resources
means all monies, as determined in accordance with the State agency's established accounting system that are available to or have accrued to a sponsor's nonprofit food service at any given time, less cash payable. Such monies may include, but are not limited to, cash on hand, cash receivable, earnings on investments, cash on deposit and the value of stocks, bonds, or other negotiable securities.
New site
means a site which did not participate in the Program in the prior year, an experienced site that is proposing to operate a non-congregate meal service for the first time, or, as determined by the State agency, a site which has experienced significant staff turnover from the prior year.
New sponsor
means a sponsor which did not participate in the Program in the prior year, or, as determined by the State agency, a sponsor which has experienced significant staff turnover from the prior year.
Non-congregate meal service
means a food service at which meals are provided for children to consume all of the components off site. Non-congregate meal service must only be operated at sites designated as “Rural” with no “Congregate meal service,” as determined in § 225.6(h)(3) and (4).
Nonprofit food service
means all food service operations conducted by the sponsor principally for the benefit of children, all of the revenue from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such food services.
Nonprofit food service account
means the restricted account in which all of the revenue from all food service operations conducted by the sponsor principally for the benefit of children is retained and used only for the operation or improvement of the nonprofit food service. This account must include, as appropriate, non-Federal funds used to support program operations, and proceeds from non-program foods.
NYSP
means the National Youth Sports Program administered by the National Collegiate Athletic Association.
NYSP feeding site
means a site at which all of the children receiving Program meals are enrolled in the NYSP and which qualifies for Program participation on the basis of documentation that the site meets the definition of “areas in which poor economic conditions exist” as provided in this section.
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
Open site
means a site at which meals are made available to all children in the area and which is located in an area in which at least 50 percent of the children are from households that would be eligible for free or reduced price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, as determined in accordance with paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of the definition of “Areas in which poor economic conditions exist.”
Operating costs
means the cost of operating a food service under the Program:
(1) Including the:
(i) Cost of obtaining food;
(ii) Labor directly involved in the preparation and service of food;
(iii) Cost of nonfood supplies;
(iv) Rental and use allowances for equipment and space; and
(v) Cost of transporting children in rural areas to feeding sites in rural areas;
(vi) Cost of delivering non-congregate meals in rural areas; but
(2) Excluding:
(i) The cost of the purchase of land, acquisition or construction of buildings;
(ii) Alteration of existing buildings;
(iii) Interest costs;
(iv) The value of in-kind donations; and
(v) Administrative costs.
Private nonprofit
means tax exempt under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Private nonprofit organization
means an organization (other than private nonprofit residential camps, school food authorities, or colleges or universities participating in the NYSP) that:
(a) Exercises full control and authority over the operation of the Program at all sites under the sponsorship of the organization;
(b) Provides ongoing year-round activities for children or families;
(c) Demonstrates that the organization has adequate management and the fiscal capacity to operate the Program;
(d) Is an organization described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 501(a) of that Code; and
(e) Meets applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards.
Program
means the Summer Food Service Program for Children authorized by Section 13 of the Act.
Program funds
means Federal financial assistance made available to State agencies for the purpose of making Program payments.
Program payments
means financial assistance in the form of start-up payments, advance payments, or reimbursement paid to sponsors for operating and administrative costs.
Restricted open site
means a site which is initially open to broad community participation, but at which the sponsor restricts or limits attendance for reasons of security, safety or control. Site eligibility for a restricted open site shall be documented in accordance with paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of the definition of “Areas in which poor economic conditions exist.”
Rural
means:
(1) Any area in a county which is not a part of a Metropolitan Statistical Area based on the Office of Management and Budget's Delineations of Metropolitan Statistical Areas;
(2) Any area in a county classified as a non-metropolitan area based on USDA Economic Research Service's Rural-Urban Continuum Codes and Urban Influence Codes;
(3) Any census tract classified as a non-metropolitan area based on USDA Economic Research Service's Rural-Urban Commuting Area codes;
(4) Any area of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which is not part of a Census Bureau-defined urban area;
(5) Any area of a State which is not part of an urban area as determined by the Secretary;
(6) Any subsequent substitution or update of the aforementioned classification schemes that Federal governing bodies create; or
(7) Any “pocket” within a Metropolitan Statistical Area which, at the option of the State agency and with FNSRO approval, is determined to be rural in character based on other data sources.
School food authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools and which has the legal authority to operate a lunch program in those schools. In addition, for the purpose of determining the applicability of food service management company registration and bid procedure requirements, “school food authority” also means any college or university which participates in the Program.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
Self-preparation site
means a site that prepares the majority of meals that will be served at its site or receives meals that are prepared at its sponsor's central kitchen. The site does not contract with a food service management company for unitized meals, with or without milk, or for management services.
Self-preparation sponsor
means a sponsor which prepares the meals that will be served at its site(s) and does not contract with a food service management company for unitized meals, with or without milk, or for management services.
Session
means a specified period of time during which an enrolled group of children attend camp.
Site
means the place where a child receives a program meal. A site may be the indoor or outdoor location where
congregate meals are served, a stop on a delivery route of a mobile congregate meal service, or the distribution location or route for a non-congregate meal service. However, a child's residence is not considered a non-congregate meal site for Program monitoring purposes.
Site supervisor
means the individual who has been trained by the sponsor and is responsible for all administrative and management activities at the site, including, but not limited to: maintaining documentation of meal deliveries, ensuring that all meals served are safe, and maintaining accurate point of service meal counts. Except for non-congregate meal service sites using delivery services, the individual is on site for the duration of the food service.
SNAP household
means any individual or group of individuals which is currently certified to receive assistance as a household from SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
Special account
means an account which a State agency may require a vended sponsor to establish with the State agency or with a Federally insured bank. Operating costs payable to the sponsor by the State agency are deposited in the account and disbursement of monies from the account must be authorized by both the sponsor and the food service management company.
Sponsor
means a public or private nonprofit school food authority, a public or private nonprofit residential summer camp, a unit of local, municipal, county or State government, a public or private nonprofit college or university currently participating in the NYSP, or a private nonprofit organization which develops a special summer or other school vacation program providing food service similar to that made available to children during the school year under the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs and which is approved to participate in the Program. Sponsors are referred to in the Act as “service institutions”.
Start-up payments
means financial assistance made available to a sponsor for administrative costs to enable it to effectively plan a summer food service, and to establish effective management procedures for such a service. These payments shall be deducted from subsequent administrative cost payments.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency
means the State educational agency or an alternate agency that has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and which has been approved by the Department to administer the Program within the State, or, in States where FNS administers the Program, FNSRO.
TANF
means the State funded program under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995. This program is commonly referred to as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, although States may refer to the program by another name.
Termination for convenience
means:
(1) Termination of a State agency's participation in the Program in whole, or in part, when FNS and the State agency agree that the continuation of the Program would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds; or
(2) Termination of a permanent operating agreement by a State agency or sponsor due to considerations unrelated to either party's performance of Program responsibilities under the agreement.
Unaffiliated site
means a site that is legally distinct from the sponsor.
Unanticipated school closure
means any period from October through April (or any time of the year in an area with a continuous school calendar) during which children who are not in school due to a natural disaster, building repair, court order, labor-management disputes, or, when approved by the State agency, similar cause, may be served meals at non-school sites through the Summer Food Service Program.
Unit of local, municipal, county or State government
means an entity which is so recognized by the State constitution or State laws, such as the State administrative procedures act, tax laws, or other applicable State laws which delineate authority for government responsibility in the State.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Unused reimbursement
means the difference between the amount of reimbursement earned and received and allowable costs, when reimbursement exceeds costs.
Vended site
means a site that serves unitized meals, with or without milk, that are procured through a formal agreement or contract with:
(1) Public agencies or entities, such as a school food authority;
(2) Private, nonprofit organizations; or
(3) Private, for-profit companies, such as a commercial food distributor or food service management company.
Vended sponsor
means a sponsor which purchases from a food service management company the unitized meals, with or without milk, which it will serve at its site(s), or a sponsor which purchases management services, subject to the limitations set forth in § 225.15, from a food service management company.
Yogurt
means commercially prepared coagulated milk products obtained by the fermentation of specific bacteria, that meet milk fat or milk solid requirements and to which flavoring foods or ingredients may be added. These products are covered by the Food and Drug Administration's Standard of Identity for yogurt, lowfat yogurt, and nonfat yogurt, (21 CFR 131.200), (21 CFR 131.203), (21 CFR 131.206), respectively.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 27153, June 28, 1989; 55 FR 13466, Apr. 10, 1990; 61 FR 25553, May 22, 1996; 64 FR 72483, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72895, Dec. 29, 1999; 66 FR 2202, Jan. 11, 2001; 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 10895, Mar. 12, 2007; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 78 FR 13449, Feb. 28, 2013; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 25357, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57355, Sept. 19, 2022; 87 FR 79213, Dec. 27, 2022; 88 FR 57849, Aug. 23, 2023; 88 FR 90347, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.3
Administration.
(a)
Responsibility within the Department.
FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program.
(b)
State administered programs.
Within the State, responsibility for the administration of the Program must be in the State agency. Each State agency must notify the Department by January 1 of the fiscal year regarding its intention to administer the Program. Each State agency desiring to take part in the Program must enter into a written agreement with FNS for the administration of the Program in accordance with the provisions of this part. The agreement must cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended by written consent of both parties. The agreement must contain an assurance that the State agency will comply with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (7 CFR part 15) issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and any Instructions issued by FNS pursuant to 7 CFR part 15, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. However, if a State educational agency is not permitted by law to disburse funds to any of the nonpublic schools in the State, the Secretary must disburse the funds directly to such schools within the State for the same purposes and subject to the same conditions as the disbursements to public schools within the State by the State educational agency.
(c)
Regional office administered programs.
The Secretary shall not administer the Program in the States, except that if a FNSRO has continuously administered the Program in any State
since October 1, 1980, FNS shall continue to administer the Program in that State. In States in which FNSRO administers the Program, it shall have all of the responsibilities of a State agency and shall earn State administrative and Program funds as set forth in this part. A State in which FNS administers the Program may, upon request to FNS, assume administration of the Program.
(d)
Authority to waive statute and regulations.
(1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.
(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (d)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.
(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.
(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:
(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,
(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.
(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.
(e)
Coordinated Services Plan.
(1) Each State agency must establish, and update annually as needed, a plan to coordinate the statewide availability of services offered through the Summer Food Service Program described in this part and the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) Program regulations (7 CFR part 292).
(2) Only one plan must be established for each State in which both the Summer Food Service Program and the Summer EBT Program is administered. If more than one agency administers the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT within a respective State, they must work together to develop and implement the plan. States should also ensure that plans include the National School Lunch Program's Seamless Summer Program if appropriate.
(3) The plan must include, at minimum, the following information:
(i) A description of the roles and responsibilities of each State administering agency, and, as applicable, any other agencies, Indian Tribal Organizations, or public or private organizations which will be involved in administering the Programs;
(ii) A description of how the State agency and any other organizations included in the plan will coordinate outreach and programmatic activities to maximize the reach of the Summer Food Service Program and Summer EBT Program;
(iii) Metrics to assess Program reach and coverage; and
(iv) The State agency's plans to partner with other Federal, State, Tribal,
or local programs to aid participants in accessing all Federal, State, Tribal, or local programs for which they are eligible.
(4) States must notify the public about their plan and make it available to the public through a website, and should, to the maximum extent practicable, solicit and consider input on plan development and implementation from other State, Tribal, and local agencies; organizations involved in the administration of nutrition and human services programs; participants; and other stakeholders.
(5) States must consult with FNS on the development of and any significant subsequent updates to their plan. Initial Plans must be submitted to FNS no later than January 1, 2025. States must submit updates annually when significant changes are made to the plan, and otherwise no less than every 3 years.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13466, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72483, Dec. 28, 1999; 87 FR 57356, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90348, Dec. 29, 2023]

# Subpart B—State Agency Provisions
§ 225.4
Program management and administration plan.
(a) Not later than February 15 of each year, each State agency shall submit to FNSRO a Program management and administration plan for that fiscal year.
(b) Each plan shall be acted on or approved by March 15 or, if it is submitted late, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the plan. If the plan initially submitted is not approved, the State agency and FNS shall work together to ensure that changes to the plan, in the form of amendments, are submitted so that the plan can be approved within 60 calendar days following the initial submission of the plan. Upon approval of the plan, the State agency shall be notified of the level of State administrative funding which it is assured of receiving under § 225.5(a)(3).
(c) Approval of the Plan by FNS shall be a prerequisite to the withdrawal of Program funds by the State from the Letter of Credit and to the donation by the Department of any commodities for use in the State's Program.
(d) The Plan must include, at a minimum, the following information:
(1) The State's administrative budget for the fiscal year, and the State's plan to comply with any standards prescribed by the Secretary for the use of these funds;
(2) The State's plan for use of Program funds and funds from within the State to the maximum extent practicable to reach needy children;
(3) The State's plans for providing technical assistance and training to eligible sponsors;
(4) The State's plans for monitoring and inspecting sponsors, feeding sites, and food service management companies and for ensuring that such companies do not enter into contracts for more meals than they can provide effectively and efficiently;
(5) The State's plan for timely and effective action against Program violators;
(6) The State's plan for ensuring the fiscal integrity of sponsors not subject to auditing requirements prescribed by the Secretary;
(7) The State's plan for ensuring compliance with the food service management company procurement monitoring requirements set forth at § 225.6(l);
(8) An estimate of the State's need, if any, for monies available to pay for the cost of conducting health inspections and meal quality tests;
(9) The State's plan to provide a reasonable opportunity for children to access meals across all areas of the State; and
(10) The State's plan for Program delivery in areas that could benefit the most from the provision of non-congregate meals, including the State's plan to identify areas with no congregate meal service, and target priority areas for non-congregate meal service.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13466, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72483, Dec. 28, 1999; 87 FR 57356, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90349, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.5
Payments to State agencies and use of Program funds.
(a)
State administrative funds
—(1)
Administrative funding formula.
For each fiscal year, FNS shall pay to each State agency for administrative expenses incurred in the Program an amount equal to
(i) 20 percent of the first $50,000 in Program funds properly payable to the State in the preceding fiscal year;
(ii) 10 percent of the next $100,000 in Program funds properly payable to the State in the preceding fiscal year;
(iii) 5 percent of the next $250,000 in Program funds properly payable to the State in the preceding fiscal year; and
(iv) 2
1/2
percent of any remaining Program funds properly payable to the State in the preceding fiscal year,
Provided, however,
That FNS may make appropriate adjustments in the level of State administrative funds to reflect changes in Program size from the preceding fiscal year as evidenced by information submitted in the State Program management and administration plan and any other information available to FNS. If a State agency fails to submit timely and accurate reports under § 225.8(c) of this part, State administrative funds payable under this paragraph shall be subject to sanction. For such failure, FNS may recover, withhold, or cancel payment of up to one hundred percent of the funds payable to the State agency under this paragraph during the fiscal year.
(2)
Use of State administrative funds.
State administrative funds paid to any State shall be used by State agencies to employ personnel, including travel and related expenses, and to supervise and give technical assistance to sponsors in their initiation, expansion, and conduct of any food service for which Program funds are made available. State agencies may also use administrative funds for such other administrative expenses as are set forth in their approved Program management and administration plan.
(3)
Funding assurance.
At the time FNS approves the State's management and administration plan, the State shall be assured of receiving State administrative funding equal to the lesser of the following amounts: 80 percent of the amount obtained by applying the formula set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the total amount of Program payments made within the State during the prior fiscal year; or, 80 percent of the amount obtained by applying the formula set forth in paragraph (a)(1) to the amount of Program funds estimated to be needed in the management and administration plan. The State agency shall be assured that it will receive no less than this level unless FNS determines that the State agency has failed or is failing to meet its responsibilities under this part.
(4)
Limitation.
In no event may the total payment for State administrative costs in any fiscal year exceed the total amount of expenditures incurred by the State agency in administering the Program.
(5)
Full use of Federal funds.
States and State agencies must support the full use of Federal funds provided to State agencies for the administration of Child Nutrition Programs, and exclude such funds from State budget restrictions or limitations including, hiring freezes, work furloughs, and travel restrictions.
(b)
State administrative funds Letter of Credit.
(1) At the beginning of each fiscal year, FNS shall make available to each participating State agency by Letter of Credit an initial allocation of State administrative funds for use in that fiscal year. This allocation shall not exceed one-third of the administrative funds provided to the State in the preceding fiscal year. For State agencies which did not receive any Program funds during the preceding fiscal year, the amount to be made available shall be determined by FNS.
(2) Additional State administrative funds shall be made available upon the receipt and approval by FNS of the State's Program management and administration plan. The amount of such funds, plus the initial allocation, shall not exceed 80 percent of the State administrative funds determined by the formula set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and based on the estimates set forth in the approved Program management and administration plan.
(3) Any remaining State administrative funds shall be paid to each State agency as soon as practicable after the
conduct of the funding assessment described in paragraph (c) of this section. However, regardless of whether such assessment is made, the remaining administrative funds shall be paid no later than September 1. The remaining administrative payment shall be in an amount equal to that determined to be needed during the funding evaluation or, if such evaluation is not conducted, the amount owed the State in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, less the amounts paid under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
(c)
Administrative funding evaluation.
FNSRO shall conduct data on the need for Program and State administrative funding within any State agency
if
the funding needs estimated in a State's management and administration plan are no longer accurate. Based on this data, FNS may make adjustments in the level of State administrative funding paid or payable to the State agency under paragraph (b) of this section to reflect changes in the size of the State's Program as compared to that estimated in its management and administration plan. The data shall be based on approved Program participation levels and shall be collected during the period of Program operations. As soon as possible following this data collection, payment of any additional administrative funds owed shall be made to the State agency. The payment may reflect adjustments made to the level of State administrative funding based on the information collected during the funding assessment. However, FNS shall not decrease the amount of a State's administrative funds as a result of this assessment unless the State failed to make reasonable efforts to administer the Program as proposed in its management and administration plan or the State incurred unnecessary expenses.
(d)
Letter of Credit for Program payments.
(1) Not later than April 15 of each fiscal year, FNS shall make available to each participating State in a Letter of Credit an amount equal to 65 percent of the preceding fiscal year's Program payments for operating costs plus 65 percent of the preceding fiscal year's Program payments for administrative costs in the State. This amount may be adjusted to reflect changes in reimbursement rates made pursuant to § 225.9(d)(8). However, the State shall not withdraw funds from this Letter of Credit until its Program management and administration plan is approved by FNS.
(2) Based on the State agency's approved management and administration plan, FNS shall, if necessary, adjust the State's Letter of Credit to ensure that 65 percent of estimated current year Program operating and administrative funding needs is available. Such adjustment shall be made no later than May 15, or within 90 days of FNS receipt of the State agency's management and administration plan, whichever date is later.
(3) Subsequent to the adjustment provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, FNS will, if necessary, make one additional adjustment to ensure that the State agency's Letter of Credit contains at least 65 percent of the Program operating and administrative funds needed during the current fiscal year. Such adjustment may be based on the administrative funding assessment provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, if one is conducted, or on any additional information which demonstrates that the funds available in the Letter of Credit do not equal at least 65 percent of current year Program needs. In no case will such adjustments be made later than September 1. Funds made available in the Letter of Credit shall be used by the State agency to make Program payments to sponsors.
(4) The Letter of Credit shall include sufficient funds to enable the State agency to make advance payments to sponsors serving areas in which schools operate under a continuous school calendar. These funds shall be made available no later than the first day of the month prior to the month during which the food service will be conducted.
(5) FNS shall make available any remaining Program funds due within 45 days of the receipt of valid claims for reimbursement from sponsors by the State agency. However, no payment shall be made for claims submitted later than 60 days after the month covered by the claim unless an exception is granted by FNS.
(6) Each State agency shall release to FNS any Program funds which it determines are unobligated as of September 30 of each fiscal year. Release of funds by the State agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 30 calendar days following demand by FNS, and shall be accomplished by an adjustment in the State agency's Letter of Credit.
(e)
Adjustment to Letter of Credit.
Prior to May 15 of each fiscal year, FNS shall make any adjustments necessary in each State's Letter of Credit to reflect actual expenditures in the preceding fiscal year's Program.
(f)
Health inspection funds.
If the State agency's approved management and administration plan estimates a need for health inspection funding, FNS shall make available by letter of credit an amount up to one percent of Program funds estimated to be needed in the management and administration plan. Such amount may be adjusted, based on the administrative funding assessment provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, if such assessment is conducted. Health inspection funds shall be used solely to enable State or local health departments or other governmental agencies charged with health inspection functions to carry out health inspections and meal quality tests, provided that if these agencies cannot perform such inspections or tests, the State agency may use the funds to contract with an independent agency to conduct the inspection or meal quality tests. Funds so provided but not expended or obligated shall be returned to the Department by September 30 of the same fiscal year.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011]
§ 225.6
State agency responsibilities.
(a)
General responsibilities.
(1) The State agency shall provide sufficient qualified consultative, technical, and managerial personnel to administer the Program, monitor performance, and measure progress in achieving Program goals. The State agency shall assign Program responsibilities to personnel to ensure that all applicable requirements under this part are met.
(2) By February 1 of each fiscal year, each State agency must announce the purpose, eligibility criteria, and availability of the Program throughout the State, through appropriate means of communication. As part of this effort, each State agency must:
(i) Identify areas in which poor economic conditions exist to qualify for the Program and actively seek eligible applicant sponsors to serve:
(A) Rural areas;
(B) Indian Tribal territories; and
(C) Areas with a concentration of migrant farm workers.
(ii) The State agency must identify rural areas with no congregate meal service and encourage participating sponsors to provide non-congregate meals to eligible children in those areas.
(iii) The State agency must target outreach efforts to priority outreach areas.
(iv) For approval of closed enrolled sites, the State agency must establish criteria to ensure that operation of a closed enrolled site does not limit Program access for eligible children in the area where the site is located.
(3) Each State agency shall require applicant sponsors submitting Program application site information sheets, Program agreements, or a request for advance payments, and sponsors submitting claims for reimbursement to certify that the information submitted on these forms is true and correct and that the sponsor is aware that deliberate misrepresentation or withholding of information may result in prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes.
(4) In addition to the warnings specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, State agencies may include the following information on applications and pre-application materials distributed to prospective sponsors:
(i) The criminal penalties and provisions established in section 12(g) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(g)) that states substantially: Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property that are the subject of a grant or other form of assistance under this Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771
et seq.
), whether received directly or indirectly from the United States Department of
Agriculture, or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets, or property to personal use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets, or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or, if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(ii) The procedures for termination from Program participation of any site or sponsor which is determined to be seriously deficient in its administration of the Program. In addition, the application may also state that appeals of sponsor or site terminations will follow procedures mandated by the State agency and will also meet the minimum requirements of 7 CFR 225.13.
(b)
Approval of sponsor applications.
(1) Each State agency must inform all of the previous year's sponsors which meet current eligibility requirements and all other potential sponsors of the deadline date for submitting a written application for participation in the Program. The State agency must require that all applicant sponsors submit written applications for Program participation to the State agency by June 15. However, the State agency may establish an earlier deadline for the Program application submission. Sponsors applying for participation in the Program due to an unanticipated school closure shall be exempt from the application submission deadline.
(2) Each State agency shall inform potential sponsors of the procedure for applying for advance operating and administrative costs payments as provided for in § 225.9(c). Where applicable, each State agency shall inform sponsors of the procedure for applying for start-up payments provided for in § 225.9(a).
(3) Within 30 days of receiving a complete and correct application, the State agency shall notify the applicant of its approval or disapproval. If an incomplete application is received, the State agency shall so notify the applicant within 15 days and shall provide technical assistance for the purpose of completing the application. Any disapproved applicant shall be notified of its right to appeal under § 225.13.
(4) The State agency shall determine the eligibility of sponsors applying for participation in the Program in accordance with the applicant sponsor eligibility criteria outlined in § 225.14. However, State agencies may approve the application of an otherwise eligible applicant sponsor which does not provide a year-round service to the community which it proposes to serve under the Program only if it meets one or more of the following criteria: It is a residential camp; it proposes to provide a food service for the children of migrant workers; a failure to do so would deny the Program to an area in which poor economic conditions exist; a significant number of needy children will not otherwise have reasonable access to the Program; or it proposes to serve an area affected by an unanticipated school closure. In addition, the State agency may approve a sponsor for participation during an unanticipated school closure without a prior application if the sponsor participated in the program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior two calendar years.
(5) The State agency must use the following priority system in approving applicants to operate sites that propose to serve the same area or the same enrolled children:
(i) Public or nonprofit private school food authorities;
(ii) Public agencies and private nonprofit organizations that have demonstrated successful program performance in a prior year;
(iii) New public agencies; and
(iv) New private nonprofit organizations.
(v) If two or more sponsors that qualify under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section apply to serve the same area, the State agency must determine on a case-by-case basis which sponsor or sponsors it will select to serve the needy children in the area. The State agency should consider the resources and capabilities of each applicant.
(6) The State agency must not approve any sponsor to operate more than 200 sites or to serve more than an
average of 50,000 children per day. However, the State agency may approve exceptions if:
(i) The applicant demonstrates that it has the capability of managing a program larger than the limits in this paragraph (b)(6); and
(ii) The State agency has the capacity to conduct reviews of at least 10 percent of the sponsor's sites, as described in § 225.7(e)(4)(v).
(7) The State agency shall review each applicant's administrative budget as a part of the application approval process in order to assess the applicant's ability to operate in compliance with these regulations within its projected reimbursement. In approving the applicant's administrative budget, the State agency shall take into consideration the number of sites and children to be served, as well as any other relevant factors. A sponsor's administrative budget shall be subject to review for adjustments by the State agency if the sponsor's level of site participation or the number of meals served to children changes significantly. State agencies may exempt school food authorities applying to operate the SFSP from submitting a separate budget to the State agency, if the school food authority submits an annual budget for the National School Lunch Program and the submitted budget includes the operation of SFSP.
(8) Applicants which qualify as camps and sponsors of conditional non-congregate sites must be approved for reimbursement only for meals served free to enrolled children who meet the Program's income standards.
(9) The State agency shall not approve the application of any applicant sponsor identifiable through its organization or principals as a sponsor which has been determined to be seriously deficient as described in § 225.11(c). However, the State agency may approve the application of a sponsor which has been disapproved or terminated in prior years in accordance with this paragraph if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State agency that it has taken appropriate corrective actions to prevent recurrence of the deficiencies.
(10) If the sponsor's application to participate is denied, the official making the determination of denial must notify the applicant sponsor in writing stating all of the grounds on which the State agency based the denial. Pending the outcome of a review of a denial, the State agency shall proceed to approve other applicants in accordance with its responsibilities under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, without regard to the application under review.
(11) The State agency shall not approve the application of any applicant sponsor which submits fraudulent information or documentation when applying for Program participation or which knowingly withholds information that may lead to the disapproval of its application. Complete information regarding such disapproval of an applicant shall be submitted by the State agency through FNSRO to OIG.
(12) The State agency must not deny a sponsor's application based solely on the sponsor's intent to provide a non-congregate meal service.
(c)
Content of sponsor application
—(1)
Application form.
(i) The sponsor must submit a written application to the State agency for participation in the Program. The State agency may use the application form developed by FNS, or develop its own application form, provided that the form requests the full legal name, any previously used names, mailing address; date of birth of the sponsor's responsible principals, which include the executive director and board chair; and the sponsor's Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) or Unique Entity Identifier (UEI). Application to sponsor the Program must be made on a timely basis within the deadlines established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii) At the discretion of the State agency, sponsors proposing to serve an area affected by an unanticipated school closure may be exempt from submitting a new application if they have participated in the Program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior two calendar years.
(iii) Requirements for new sponsors and sponsors that have experienced significant operational problems in the prior year, as determined by the State agency, are found under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(iv) Requirements for experienced sponsors are found under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2)
Application requirements for new sponsors and sponsors that have experienced significant operational problems in the prior year.
New sponsors and sponsors that have experienced significant operational problems in the prior year, as determined by the State agency, must include the following information in their applications:
(i) A full management plan, as described in paragraph (e) of this section;
(ii) A free meal policy statement, as described in paragraph (f) of this section;
(iii) A site information sheet for each site where a food service operation is proposed, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section;
(iv) Information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to determine that the sponsor meets the criteria for participation in the Program, as described in § 225.14;
(v) Information on the extent of Program payments needed, including a request for advance payments and start-up payments, if applicable;
(vi) A staffing and monitoring plan;
(vii) A complete administrative budget for State agency review and approval, which includes:
(A) The projected administrative expenses that the sponsor expects to incur during the operation of the Program, and
(B) Information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to assess the sponsor's ability to operate the Program within its estimated reimbursement;
(viii) A summary of how meals will be obtained at each site (
e.g.,
self-prepared at each site, self-prepared and distributed from a central kitchen, purchased from a school food authority, competitively procured from a food service management company);
(ix) If an invitation for bid is required under § 225.15(m), a schedule for bid dates and a copy of the invitation for bid;
(x) For each sponsor which seeks approval as a unit of local, municipal, county or State government under § 225.14(b)(3) or as a private nonprofit organization under § 225.14(b)(5), certification that the sponsor has administrative oversight, as required under § 225.14(d)(3); and
(xi) Procedures that document meals are only distributed, to a reasonable extent, to eligible children and that duplicate meals are not distributed to any child, if the applicant sponsor is electing to use the non-congregate meal service options described in § 225.16(i)(1) and (2).
(3)
Application requirements for experienced sponsors.
The following information must be included in the applications of experienced sponsors:
(i) A simplified or full management plan, as described in paragraph (e) of this section;
(ii) A site information sheet for each site where a food service operation is proposed, as described under paragraph (g)(2) of this section;
(iii) Information on the extent of Program payments needed, including a request for advance payments and start-up payments, if it is applicable;
(iv) A staffing and monitoring plan;
(v) A complete administrative budget for State agency review and approval, which includes:
(A) The projected administrative expenses which a sponsor expects to incur during the operation of the Program; and
(B) Information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to assess the sponsor's ability to operate the Program within its estimated reimbursement.
(vi) If the method of obtaining meals is changed, a summary of how meals will be obtained at each site (
e.g.,
self-prepared at each site, self-prepared and distributed from a central kitchen, purchased from a school food authority, competitively procured from a food service management company);
(vii) If an invitation for bid is required under § 225.15(m), a schedule for bid dates, and a copy of the invitation for bid, if it is changed from the previous year; and
(viii) Procedures that document meals are only distributed, to a reasonable extent, to eligible children and
that duplicate meals are not distributed to any child, if the applicant sponsor is electing to use the non-congregate meal service options described in § 225.16(i)(1) and (2).
(4)
Applications for school food authorities and Child and Adult Care Food Program institutions.
At the discretion of the State agency, school food authorities in good standing in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program, as applicable, and institutions in good standing in the Child and Adult Care Food Program may apply to operate the Summer Food Service Program at the same sites where they provide meals through the aforementioned Programs by following the procedures for experienced sponsors outlined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(d)
Performance standards.
The State agency may only approve the applications of those sponsors that meet the three performance standards outlined in this section: financial viability, administrative capability, and Program accountability. The State agency must deny applications that do not meet all of these standards. The State agency must consider past performance in the SFSP or another Child Nutrition Program, and any other factors it deems relevant when determining whether the sponsor's application meets the following standards:
(1)
Performance standard 1.
The sponsor must be financially viable. The sponsor must expend and account for Program funds, consistent with this part; FNS Instruction 796-4, Financial Management in the Summer Food Service Program; 2 CFR part 200, subpart D; and USDA regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. To demonstrate financial viability and financial management, the sponsor's management plan must:
(i) Describe the community's need for summer meals and the sponsor's recruitment strategy:
(A) Explain how the sponsor's participation will help ensure the delivery of Program benefits to otherwise unserved sites or children; and
(B) Describe how the sponsor will recruit sites, consistent with any State agency requirements.
(ii) Describe the sponsor's financial resources and financial history:
(A) Show that the sponsor has adequate sources of funds available to operate the Program, pay employees and suppliers during periods of temporary interruptions in Program payments, and pay debts if fiscal claims are assessed against the sponsor; and
(B) Provide audit documents, financial statements, and other documentation that demonstrate financial viability.
(iii) Ensure that all costs in the sponsor's budget are necessary, reasonable, allowable, and appropriately documented.
(2)
Performance standard 2.
The sponsor must be administratively capable. Appropriate and effective management practices must be in effect to ensure that Program operations meet the requirements of this part. To demonstrate administrative capability, the sponsor must:
(i) Have an adequate number and type of qualified staff to ensure the operation of the Program, consistent with this part; and
(ii) Have written policies and procedures that assign Program responsibilities and duties and ensure compliance with civil rights requirements.
(3)
Performance standard 3.
The sponsor must have internal controls and other management systems in place to ensure fiscal accountability and operation of the Program, consistent with this part. To demonstrate Program accountability, the sponsor must:
(i) Demonstrate that the sponsor has a financial system with management controls specified in written operational policies that will ensure that:
(A) All funds and property received are handled with fiscal integrity and accountability;
(B) All expenses are incurred with integrity and accountability;
(C) Claims will be processed accurately, and in a timely manner;
(D) Funds and property are properly safeguarded and used, and expenses incurred, for authorized Program purposes; and
(E) A system of safeguards and controls is in place to prevent and detect improper financial activities by employees.
(ii) Maintain appropriate records to document compliance with Program requirements, including budgets, approved budget amendments, accounting records, management plans, and site operations.
(e)
Management plan
—(1)
Compliance.
The State agency must require the submission of a management plan to determine compliance with performance standards established under paragraph (d) of this section.
(i) Requirements for new sponsors and sponsors that have experienced significant operational problems in the prior year, as determined by the State agency, are found under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(ii) Requirements for experienced sponsors are found under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(iii) Requirements for school food authorities in good standing in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program, as applicable, or institutions in good standing in the Child and Adult Care Food Program are found under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(2)
Requirements for new sponsors and sponsors that have experienced significant operational problems in the prior year.
Sponsors must submit a complete management plan that includes:
(i) Detailed information on the sponsor's management and administrative structure, including information that demonstrates the sponsor's financial viability and financial management described under paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(ii) Information that demonstrates compliance with each of the performance standards outlined under paragraph (d) of this section;
(iii) A list or description of the staff assigned to perform Program monitoring required under § 225.15(d)(2) and (3); and
(iv) For each sponsor which submits an application under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, information in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the sponsor will:
(A) Provide adequate and not less than annual training of sponsor's staff and sponsored sites, as required under § 225.15(d)(1);
(B) Perform monitoring consistent with § 225.15(d)(2) and (3), to ensure that all site operations are accountable and appropriate;
(C) Accurately classify sites consistent with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section;
(D) Demonstrate the sponsor's compliance with meal service, recordkeeping, and other operational requirements of this part;
(E) Provide meals that meet the meal patterns set forth in § 225.16;
(F) Have a food service that complies with applicable State and local health and sanitation requirements;
(G) Comply with civil rights requirements;
(H) Maintain complete and appropriate records on file; and
(I) Claim reimbursement only for eligible meals.
(3)
Requirements for experienced sponsors.
Experienced sponsors must submit a management plan. At the discretion of the State agency, experienced sponsors may submit a full management plan or a simplified management plan. A full management plan must be submitted at least once every 3 years. The simplified management plan must include a certification that any information previously submitted to the State to satisfy the eligibility requirements, set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, for the sponsor, its sites, and all of its current principals is current, or that the sponsor has submitted any changes or updates to the State. This certification must address all required elements of each performance standard.
(4)
Requirements for school food authorities in good standing in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program, as applicable, or institutions in good standing in the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
These sponsors are not required to submit a management plan unless requested by the State agency. The State agency may request additional evidence of financial and administrative capability sufficient to ensure that the school food authority or institution has the ability and resources to operate the Program if the State agency has reason to believe that this would pose significant challenges for the applicant.
(f)
Free meal policy statement
—(1)
Nondiscrimination statement.
(i) Each sponsor must submit a nondiscrimination statement of its policy for serving meals to children. The statement must consist of:
(A) An assurance that all children are served the same meals and that there is no discrimination in the course of the food service; and
(B) Except for camps and conditional non-congregate sites, a statement that the meals served are free at all sites.
(ii) A school sponsor must submit the policy statement only once, with the initial application to participate as a sponsor. However, if there is a substantive change in the school's free and reduced price policy, a revised policy statement must be provided at the State agency's request.
(iii) In addition to the information described in paragraph (i) of this section, the policy statement of all camps and conditional non-congregate sites that charge separately for meals must also include:
(A) A statement that the eligibility standards conform to the Secretary's family size and income standards for reduced price school meals;
(B) A description of the method to be used in accepting applications from families for Program meals that ensures that households are permitted to apply on behalf of children who are members of households receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits using the categorical eligibility procedures described in § 225.15(f);
(C) A description of the method to be used for collecting payments from children who pay the full price of the meal while preventing the overt identification of children receiving a free meal;
(D) An assurance that the sponsor will establish hearing procedures for families requesting to appeal a denial of an application for free meals. These procedures must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section;
(E) An assurance that, if a family requests a hearing, the child will continue to receive free meals until a decision is rendered; and
(F) An assurance that there will be no overt identification of free meal recipients and no discrimination against any child on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), age, or disability.
(2)
Hearing procedures statement.
Each camp or sponsor of a conditional non-congregate site must submit a copy of its hearing procedures with its application. At a minimum, the procedures must provide that:
(i) A simple, publicly announced method will be used for a family to make an oral or written request for a hearing;
(ii) The family will have the opportunity to be assisted or represented by an attorney or other person (designated representative);
(iii) The family or designated representative will have an opportunity to examine the documents and records supporting the decision being appealed, both before and during the hearing;
(iv) The hearing will be reasonably prompt and convenient for the family or designated representative;
(v) Adequate notice will be given to the family or designated representative of the time and place of the hearing;
(vi) The family or designated representative will have an opportunity to present oral or documented evidence and arguments supporting its position;
(vii) The family or designated representative will have an opportunity to question or refute any testimony or other evidence and to confront and cross-examine any adverse witnesses;
(viii) The hearing will be conducted and the decision made by a hearing official who did not participate in the action being appealed;
(ix) The decision will be based on the oral and documentary evidence presented at the hearing and made a part of the record;
(x) The family or designated representative will be notified in writing of the decision;
(xi) A written record will be prepared for each hearing, which includes the action being appealed, any documentary evidence and a summary of oral testimony presented at the hearing, the decision and the reasons for the decision, and a copy of the notice sent to the family or designated representative; and
(xii) The written record will be maintained for a period of three years following the conclusion of the hearing and will be available for examination by the family or designated representative at any reasonable time and place.
(g)
Site information sheet.
The State agency must develop a site information sheet for sponsors.
(1)
New sites.
The application submitted by sponsors must include a site information sheet for each site where a food service operation is proposed. Where a non-congregate meal service operation is proposed for the first time, the sponsor must follow the requirements of this paragraph (g)(1). At a minimum, the site information sheet must demonstrate or describe the following:
(i) An organized and supervised system for serving meals to children;
(ii) The estimated number of meals to be served, types of meals to be served, and meal service times;
(iii) Whether the site is rural, as defined in § 225.2, or non-rural. Documentation supporting the rural designation is required. New documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's rural status has changed significantly since the last designation;
(iv) Whether the meal service is congregate or non-congregate;
(v) Whether the site is a self-preparation site or a vended site, as defined in § 225.2;
(vi) Arrangements for delivery and holding of meals until meal service times and storing and refrigerating any leftover meals until the next day, within standards prescribed by State or local health authorities;
(vii) Access to a means of communication to make necessary adjustments in the number of meals delivered, based on changes in the number of children in attendance at each site;
(viii) Arrangements for food service during periods of inclement weather;
(ix) For open sites and restricted open sites:
(A) Documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;
(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years;
(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census; and
(D) At the discretion of the State agency, sponsors proposing to serve an area affected by an unanticipated school closure may be exempt from submitting new site documentation if the sponsor has participated in the Program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior 2 calendar years;
(x) For closed enrolled sites:
(A) The projected number of children enrolled and the projected number of children eligible for free and reduced price school meals for each of these sites; or documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;
(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years; and
(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census;
(xi) For NYSP sites, certification from the sponsor that all of the children who will receive Program meals are enrolled participants in the NYSP;
(xii) For camps, the number of children enrolled in each session who meet the Program's income standards. If such information is not available at the time of application, this information must be submitted as soon as possible thereafter, and in no case later than the filing of the camp's claim for reimbursement for each session;
(xiii) For sites that will serve children of migrant workers:
(A) Certification from a migrant organization, which attests that the site serves children of migrant workers; and
(B) Certification from the sponsor that the site primarily serves children of migrant workers, if non-migrant children are also served; and
(xiv) For conditional non-congregate sites, the number of children enrolled who meet the Program's income standards. If such information is not available at the time of application, this information must be submitted as soon as possible thereafter, and in no case later than the filing of the sponsor's claim for reimbursement.
(2)
Experienced sites.
The application submitted by sponsors must include a site information sheet for each site where a food service operation is proposed. The State agency may require sponsors of experienced sites to provide information described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. At a minimum, the site information sheet must demonstrate or describe the following:
(i) The estimated number of meals, types of meals to be served, and meal service times;
(ii) Whether the site is rural, as defined in § 225.2, or non-rural. Documentation supporting the rural designation is required. New documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's rural status has changed significantly since the last designation;
(iii) Whether the meal service is congregate or non-congregate;
(iv) For open sites and restricted open sites:
(A) Documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;
(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years;
(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census; and
(D) Any site that a sponsor proposes to serve during an unanticipated school closure, which has participated in the Program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior 2 calendar years, is considered eligible without new documentation;
(v) For closed enrolled sites:
(A) The projected number of children enrolled and the projected number of children eligible for free and reduced price school meals for each of these sites; or documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;
(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years; and
(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency determines that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census;
(vi) For NYSP sites, certification from the sponsor that all of the children who will receive Program meals are enrolled participants in the NYSP;
(vii) For camps, the number of children enrolled in each session who meet the Program's income standards. If such information is not available at the time of application, this information must be submitted as soon as possible thereafter, and in no case later than the filing of the camp's claim for reimbursement for each session; and
(viii) For conditional non-congregate sites, the number of children enrolled who meet the Program's income standards. If such information is not available at the time of application, this information must be submitted as soon as possible thereafter, and in no case later than the filing of the sponsor's claim for reimbursement.
(h)
Approval of sites.
(1) When evaluating a proposed food service site, the State agency must ensure that:
(i) If not a camp or a conditional non-congregate site, the proposed site serves an area in which poor economic conditions exist, as defined by § 225.2;
(ii) The area which the site proposes to serve is not or will not be served in whole or in part by another site, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the State agency that each site will serve children not served by any other site in the same area for the same meal;
(iii) The site is approved to serve no more than the number of children for which its facilities are adequate; and
(iv) If it is a site proposed to operate during an unanticipated school closure, it is a non-school site.
(2) When approving the application of a site which will serve meals prepared
by a food service management company, the State agency must establish for each meal service an approved level for the maximum number of children's meals which may be served under the Program. These approved levels must be established in accordance with the following provisions:
(i) The initial maximum approved level must be based upon the historical record of the number of meals served at the site if such a record has been established in prior years and the State agency determines that it is accurate. The State agency must develop a procedure for establishing initial maximum approved levels for sites when no accurate record from prior years is available. The State agency may consider participation at other similar sites located in the area, documentation of programming taking place at the site, statistics on the number of children residing in the area, and other relevant information.
(ii) The maximum approved level must be adjusted, if warranted, based upon information collected during site reviews. If the number of meals served at the site on the day of the review is significantly below the site's approved level, the State agency should consider making a downward adjustment in the approved level with the objective of providing only one meal per child.
(iii) The sponsor may seek an upward adjustment in the approved level for its sites by requesting a site review or by providing the State agency with evidence that the number of meals served exceeds the sites' approved levels. The sponsor may request an upward adjustment at any point prior to submitting the claim for the impacted reimbursement period.
(iv) Whenever the State agency establishes or adjusts approved levels of meal service for a site, it must document the action in its files, and it shall provide the sponsor with immediate written confirmation of the approved level.
(v) Upon approval of its application or any adjustment to its maximum approved levels, the sponsor must inform the food service management company with which it contracts of the approved level for each meal service at each site served by the food service management company. This notification of any adjustments in approved levels must take place within the time frames set forth in the contract for adjusting meal orders. Whenever the sponsor notifies the food service management company of the approved levels or any adjustments to these levels for any of its sites, the sponsor must clearly inform the food service management company that an approved level of meal service represents the maximum number of meals which may be served at a site and is not a standing order for a specific number of meals at that site. When the number of children being served meals is below the site's approved level, the sponsor must adjust meal orders with the objective of serving only one meal per child as required under § 225.15(b)(3).
(3) When approving the application of a site that will provide a non-congregate meal service, the State agency must ensure that the proposed site:
(i) Meets the requirements described in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii) Is rural, as defined in § 225.2.
(iii) Will not serve an area where children would receive the same meal at an approved congregate meal site, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the State agency that the site will serve a different group of children who may not be otherwise served.
(iv) Serves an area in which poor economic conditions exist or is approved for reimbursement only for meals served free to enrolled children who meet the Program's income standards.
(v) Distributes up to the allowable number of reimbursable meals that would be provided over a 10-calendar day period. The State agency may establish a shorter calendar day period on a case-by-case basis and without regard to sponsor type.
(4) When approving the application of a site which will provide both congregate and non-congregate meal services, the State agency must ensure that:
(i) The proposed site meets the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(ii) The proposed site will only conduct a non-congregate meal service
when the site is not providing a congregate meal service.
(iii) The sponsor proposes an organized and supervised system which prevents overlap between meal services and reasonably ensures children are not receiving more than the daily maximum allowance of meals as required in § 225.16(b)(3).
(i)
State-sponsor agreement.
A sponsor approved for participation in the Program must enter into a permanent written agreement with the State agency. The existence of a valid permanent agreement does not limit the State agency's ability to terminate the agreement, as provided under § 225.11(c). The State agency must terminate the sponsor's agreement whenever a sponsor's participation in the Program ends. The State agency or sponsor may terminate the agreement at its convenience, upon mutual agreement, due to considerations unrelated to either party's performance of Program responsibilities under the agreement. However, any action initiated by the State agency to terminate an agreement for its convenience requires prior consultation with FNS. All sponsors must agree in writing to:
(1) Operate a nonprofit food service during the period specified, as follows:
(i) From May through September for children on school vacation;
(ii) At any time of the year, in the case of sponsors administering the Program under a continuous school calendar system; or
(iii) During the period from October through April, if it serves an area affected by an unanticipated school closure due to a natural disaster, major building repairs, court orders relating to school safety or other issues, labor-management disputes, or, when approved by the State agency, a similar cause.
(2) For school food authorities, offer meals which meet the requirements and provisions set forth in § 225.16 during times designated as meal service periods by the sponsor and offer the same meals to all children.
(3) For all other sponsors, serve meals which meet the requirements and provisions set forth in § 225.16 during times designated as meal service periods by the sponsor and serve the same meals to all children.
(4) Serve meals without cost to all children, except that camps and conditional non-congregate sites may charge for meals served to children who are not served meals under the Program.
(5) Issue a free meal policy statement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(6) Meet the training requirement for its administrative and site personnel, as required under § 225.15(d)(1).
(7) Claim reimbursement only for the types of meals specified in the agreement that are served:
(i) Without charge to children at approved sites, except camps and conditional non-congregate sites, during the approved meal service time;
(ii) Without charge to children who meet the Program's income standards in camps and conditional non-congregate sites;
(iii) Within the approved level for the maximum number of children's meals that may be served, if a maximum approved level is required under paragraph (h)(2) of this section;
(iv) At the approved meal service time, unless a change is approved by the State agency, as required under § 225.16(c); and
(v) At the approved site, unless the requirements in § 225.16(g) are met.
(8) Submit claims for reimbursement in accordance with procedures established by the State agency, and those stated in § 225.9.
(9) In the storage, preparation and service of food, maintain proper sanitation and health standards in conformance with all applicable State and local laws and regulations.
(10) Accept and use, in quantities that may be efficiently utilized in the Program, such foods as may be offered as a donation by the Department.
(11) Have access to facilities necessary for storing, preparing, and serving food.
(12) Maintain a financial management system as prescribed by the State agency.
(13) Maintain on file documentation of site visits and reviews in accordance with § 225.15(d) (2) and (3).
(14) Upon request, make all accounts and records pertaining to the Program
available to State, Federal, or other authorized officials for audit or administrative review, at a reasonable time and place. The records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, unless audit or investigative findings have not been resolved, in which case the records shall be retained until all issues raised by the audit or investigation have been resolved.
(15) For approved congregate meal service, maintain children on site while meals are consumed. Sponsors may allow a child to take one fruit, vegetable, or grain item off-site for later consumption if the requirements in § 225.16(h) are met.
(16) Retain final financial and administrative responsibility for its program.
(j)
Special Account.
In addition, the State agency may require any vended sponsor to enter into a special account agreement with the State agency. The special account agreement shall stipulate that the sponsor shall establish a special account with a State agency or Federally insured bank for operating costs payable to the sponsor by the State. The agreement shall also stipulate that any disbursement of monies from the account must be authorized by both the sponsor and the food service management company. The special account agreement may contain such other terms, agreed to by both the sponsor and the food service management company, which are consistent with the terms of the contract between the sponsor and the food service management company. A copy of the special account agreement shall be submitted to the State agency and another copy maintained on file by the sponsor. Any charges made by the bank for the account described in this section shall be considered an allowable sponsor administrative cost.
(k)
Food service management company registration.
A State agency may require each food service management company, operating within the State, to register based on State procedures. A State agency may further require the food service management company to certify that the information submitted on its application for registration is true and correct and that the food service management company is aware that misrepresentation may result in prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes.
(l)
Monitoring of food service management company procurements.
(1) The State agency shall ensure that sponsors' food service management company procurements are carried out in accordance with §§ 225.15(m) and 225.17.
(2) Each State agency shall develop a standard form of contract for use by sponsors in contracting with food service management companies. Sponsors that are public entities, sponsors with exclusive year-round contracts with a food service management company, and sponsors that have no food service management company contracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, may use their existing or usual form of contract, provided that such form of contract has been submitted to and approved by the State agency. The standard contract developed by the State agency shall expressly and without exception provide that:
(i) All meals prepared by a food service management company shall be unitized, with or without milk or juice, unless the State agency has approved, pursuant to paragraph (l)(3) of this section, a request for exceptions to the unitizing requirement for certain components of a meal;
(ii) A food service management company entering into a contract with a sponsor under the Program shall not subcontract for the total meal, with or without milk, or for the assembly of the meal;
(iii) The sponsor shall provide to the food service management company a list of State agency approved food service sites, along with the approved level for the number of meals which may be claimed for reimbursement for each site, established under § 225.6(h)(2), and shall notify the food service management company of all sites which have been approved, cancelled, or terminated subsequent to the submission of the initial approved site list and of any changes in the approved level of meal service for a site. Such notification shall be provided within the time limits mutually agreed upon in the contract;
(iv) The food service management company shall maintain such records (supported by invoices, receipts, or other evidence) as the sponsor will need to meet its responsibilities under this part, and shall submit all required reports to the sponsor promptly at the end of each month, unless more frequent reports are required by the sponsor;
(v) The food service management company must have State or local health certification for the facility in which it proposes to prepare meals for use in the Program. It must ensure that health and sanitation requirements are met at all times. In addition, the food service management company must ensure that meals are inspected periodically to determine bacteria levels present in the meals and that the bacteria levels found to be present in the meals conform with the standards set by local health authorities. The results of the inspections must be submitted promptly to the sponsor and to the State agency.
(vi) The meals served under the contract shall conform to the cycle menus and meal quality standards and food specifications approved by the State agency and upon which the bid was based;
(vii) The books and records of the food service management company pertaining to the sponsor's food service operation shall be available for inspection and audit by representatives of the State agency, the Department and the U.S. Government Accountability Office at any reasonable time and place for a period of 3 years from the date of receipt of final payment under the contract, except that, if audit or investigation findings have not been resolved, such records shall be retained until all issues raised by the audit or investigation have been resolved;
(viii) The sponsor and the food service management company shall operate in accordance with current Program regulations;
(ix) The food service management company shall be paid by the sponsor for all meals delivered in accordance with the contract and this part. However, neither the Department nor the State agency assumes any liability for payment of differences between the number of meals delivered by the food service management company and the number of meals served by the sponsor that are eligible for reimbursement;
(x) Meals shall be delivered in accordance with a delivery schedule prescribed in the contract;
(xi) Increases and decreases in the number of meals ordered shall be made by the sponsor, as needed, within a prior notice period mutually agreed upon;
(xii) All meals served under the Program shall meet the requirements of § 225.16;
(xiii) In cases of nonperformance or noncompliance on the part of the food service management company, the company shall pay the sponsor for any excess costs which the sponsor may incur by obtaining meals from another source;
(xiv) If the State agency requires the sponsor to establish a special account for the deposit of operating costs payments in accordance with the conditions set forth in § 225.6(j), the contract shall so specify;
(xv) The food service management company shall submit records of all costs incurred in the sponsor's food service operation in sufficient time to allow the sponsor to prepare and submit the claim for reimbursement to meet the 60-day submission deadline; and
(xvi) The food service management company shall comply with the appropriate bonding requirements, as set forth in § 225.15(m)(5) through (7).
(3) All meals prepared by a food service management company shall be unitized, with or without milk or juice, unless the sponsor submits to the State agency a request for exceptions to the unitizing requirement for certain components of a meal. These requests shall be submitted to the State agency in writing in sufficient time for the State agency to respond prior to the sponsor's advertising for bids. The State agency shall notify the sponsor in writing of its determination in a timely manner.
(4) Each State agency shall have a representative present at all food service management company procurement
bid openings when sponsors are expected to receive more than $100,000 in Program payments.
(5) Copies of all contracts between sponsors and food service management companies, along with a certification of independent price determination, shall be submitted to the State agency prior to the beginning of Program operations. Sponsors shall also submit to the State agency copies of all bids received and their reason for selecting the food service management company chosen.
(6) All bids in an amount which exceeds the lowest bid shall be submitted to the State agency for approval before acceptance. All bids totaling $100,000 or more shall be submitted to the State agency for approval before acceptance. State agencies shall respond to a request for approval of such bids within 5 working days of receipt.
(7) The contract between a sponsor and food service management company shall be no longer than 1 year; and options for the yearly renewal of a contract may not exceed 4 additional years. All contracts shall include a termination clause whereby either party may cancel for cause or for convenience with up to 60-day notification.
(8) Failure by a sponsor to comply with the provisions of this paragraph or § 225.15(m) shall be sufficient grounds for the State agency to terminate participation by the sponsor in accordance with § 225.18(b).
(m)
Meal pattern exceptions.
The State agency shall review and act upon requests for exceptions to the meal pattern in accordance with the guidelines and limitations set forth in § 225.16.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13467, Apr. 10, 1990; ; 64 FR 72484, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72896, Dec. 29, 1999; 72 FR 10895, Mar. 12, 2007; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 78 FR 13450, Feb. 28, 2013; 83 FR 25357, June 1, 2018; 84 FR 15501, Apr. 16, 2019; 87 FR 57356, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 57849, Aug. 23, 2023; 88 FR 90349, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.7
Program monitoring and assistance.
(a)
Training.
Prior to the beginning of Program operations, each State agency shall make available training in all necessary areas of Program administration to sponsor personnel, food service management company representatives, auditors, and health inspectors who will participate in the Program in that State. Prior to Program operations, the State agency shall ensure that the sponsor's supervisory personnel responsible for the food service receive training in all necessary areas of Program administration and operations. This training shall reflect the fact that individual sponsors or groups of sponsors require different levels and areas of Program training. State agencies are encouraged to utilize in such training, and in the training of site personnel, sponsor personnel who have previously participated in the Program. Training should be made available at convenient locations or via the internet. State agencies are not required to conduct this training for sponsors operating the Program during unanticipated school closures.
(b)
Program materials.
Each State agency shall develop and make available all necessary Program materials in sufficient time to enable applicant sponsors to prepare adequately for the Program.
(c)
Food specifications and meal quality standards.
With the assistance of the Department, each State agency shall develop and make available to all sponsors minimum food specifications and model meal quality standards which shall become part of all contracts between vended sponsors and food service management companies.
(d)
Pre-approval visits.
The State agency must conduct pre-approval visits of sponsors and sites, as specified in paragraph (d)(1) through (4) of this section, to assess the applicant sponsor's or site's potential for successful Program operations and to verify information provided in the application.
(1) The State agency must visit, prior to approval:
(i) All applicant sponsors that did not participate in the program in the prior year;
(ii) All applicant sponsors that had operational problems noted in the prior year; and
(iii) All sites that the State agency has determined need a pre-approval visit.
(2) If a sponsor is a school food authority or Child and Adult Care Food Program institution and was reviewed
by the State agency under their respective programs during the preceding 12 months, and had no significant deficiencies noted in that review, a pre-approval visit may be conducted at the discretion of the State agency.
(3) Pre-approval visits of sponsors proposing to operate the Program during unanticipated school closures may be conducted at the discretion of the State agency.
(4) Each State agency must establish a process to determine which sites need pre-approval visits. Characteristics that must be considered include, but are not limited to:
(i) Sites that did not participate in the program in the prior year;
(ii) Existing sites that are new to non-congregate meal service; and
(iii) Existing sites that exhibited operational problems in the prior year.
(e)
Sponsor and site reviews
—(1)
Purpose.
The State agency must review sponsors and sites to ensure compliance with Program regulations, the Department's non-discrimination regulations (7 CFR part 15), and any other applicable instructions issued by the Department.
(2)
Sample selection.
In determining which sponsors and sites to review, the State agency must, at a minimum, consider the sponsors and sites' previous participation in the Program, their current and previous Program performance, whether they operate as congregate or non-congregate sites, and the results of previous reviews.
(3)
School food authorities.
When the same school food authority personnel administer this Program as well as the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210), the State agency is not required to conduct a sponsor or site review in the same year in which the National School Lunch Program operations have been reviewed and determined to be satisfactory.
(4)
Frequency and number of required reviews.
State agencies must:
(i) Conduct a review of every new sponsor at least once during the first year of operation;
(ii) Annually review every sponsor that experienced significant operational problems in the prior year;
(iii) Review each sponsor at least once every 3 years;
(iv) Review more frequently those sponsors that, in the determination of the State agency, require additional technical assistance; and
(v) As part of each sponsor review, conduct reviews of at least 10 percent of each reviewed sponsor's sites, or one site, whichever number is greater. The review sample must include sites representative of all meal service models operated by the sponsor.
(5)
Site selection criteria.
(i) State agencies must develop criteria for site selection when selecting sites to meet the minimum number of sites required under paragraph (e)(4)(v) of this section. State agencies should, to the maximum extent possible, select sites that reflect the sponsor's entire population of sites. Characteristics that should be reflected in the sites selected for review include:
(A) The maximum number of meals approved to serve under § 225.6(h)(1) and (2);
(B) Method of obtaining meals (
i.e.,
self-preparation or vended meal service);
(C) Time since last site review by State agency;
(D) Type of site (
e.g.,
open, closed enrolled, camp);
(E) Type of physical location (
e.g.,
school, outdoor area, community center);
(F) Rural designation (
i.e.,
rural, as defined in § 225.2, or non-rural);
(G) Type of meal service (
i.e.,
congregate or non-congregate);
(H) If non-congregate, meal distribution method (
e.g.,
meal pick-up, delivery); and
(I) Affiliation with the sponsor, as defined in § 225.2.
(ii) The State agency may use additional criteria to select sites including, but not limited to: recommendations from the sponsor; findings from other audits or reviews; or any indicators of potential error in daily meal counts (
e.g.,
identical or very similar claiming patterns, large changes in free meal counts).
(6)
Meal claim validation.
As part of every sponsor review under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the State agency must validate the sponsor's meal claim utilizing a record review process.
(i) The State agency must develop a record review process. This process must include, at a minimum, reconciliation of delivery receipts, daily meal counts from sites, and the comparison of the sponsor's claim consolidation spreadsheet with the meals claimed for reimbursement by the sponsor for the period under review.
(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(6), the percent error includes both overclaims and underclaims. Claims against sponsors as a result of meal claim validation should be assessed after the conclusion of the meal claim validation process in accordance with § 225.12.
(iii) In determining the sample size for each step of this process, fractions must be rounded up (≥0.5) or down (
0.5) to the nearest whole number.
(iv) State agencies must at a minimum follow the process to conduct the meal claim validation as described in table 1.
ER19SE22.012
ER19SE22.013
(v) In determining the percentage of error, under paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section, fractions must be rounded up (≥0.5) or down (
0.5) to the nearest whole number. Percentage of error is calculated for each step as follows:
(A)
Determining the meal counting and claiming discrepancy for each site validated.
Subtract the total meals validated from the total meals claimed by the sponsor for each validated site. Take the absolute value of each discrepancy. By applying the absolute value, the numbers will be expressed as positive valued numbers.
(B)
Calculating total discrepancy.
Add together all discrepancies from each site as determined in paragraph (e)(6)(v)(A) of this section to calculate the total discrepancies for sites validated in the given step.
(C)
Calculating percent error.
Divide the total discrepancies as determined in paragraph (e)(6)(v)(B) of this section by the total meals claimed by the sponsor for all reviewed sites within the validation sample for the given step. Multiply by 100 to calculate the percentage of error.
(vi) The State agency may expand the validation of meal claims beyond the review period or to include additional sites if the State agency has reason to believe that the sponsor has engaged in unlawful acts in connection with Program operations.
(vii) In lieu of the meal claim validation process described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(6)(iv) of this section, the State agency may complete a validation which includes all meals served on all operating days for all sites under a sponsor for the review period.
(7)
Review of sponsor operations.
State agencies should determine if:
(i) Expenditures are allowable and consistent with FNS Instructions and guidance and all funds accruing to the food service are properly identified and recorded as food service revenue;
(ii) Expenditures are consistent with budgeted costs, and the previous year's expenditures taking into consideration any changes in circumstances;
(iii) Reimbursements have not resulted in accumulation of net cash resources as defined in paragraph (m) of this section; and
(iv) The level of administrative spending is reasonable and does not affect the sponsor's ability to operate a nonprofit food service and provide a quality meal service.
(f)
Follow-up reviews.
The State agency must conduct follow-up reviews of sponsors and sites as necessary.
(g)
Monitoring system.
Each State agency must develop and implement a monitoring system to ensure that sponsors, including site personnel, and the sponsor's food service management company, if applicable, immediately receive a copy of any review reports which indicate Program violations and which could result in a Program disallowance.
(h)
Records.
Documentation of Program assistance and the results of such assistance must be maintained on file by the State agency 3 years after submission in accordance with § 225.8(a).
(i)
Meal preparation facility reviews.
As part of the review of any vended sponsor that purchases unitized meals, with or without milk, to be served at a SFSP site, the State agency must review the meal production facility and meal production documentation of any food service management company from which the sponsor purchases meals for compliance with program requirements. If the sponsor does not purchase meals but does purchase management services within the restrictions specified in § 225.15, the State agency is not required to conduct a meal preparation facility review.
(1) Each State agency must establish an order of priority for visiting facilities at which food is prepared for the Program. The facility review must be conducted at least one time within the appropriate review cycle for each vended sponsor. If multiple vended sponsors use the same food service management company and are being reviewed in the same review cycle, a single facility review will fulfill the review requirements for those vended sponsors.
(2) The State agency must respond promptly to complaints concerning facilities. If the food service management company fails to correct violations noted by the State agency during a review, the State agency must notify the sponsor and the food service management company that reimbursement must not be paid for meals prepared by the food service management company after a date specified in the notification.
(3) Funds provided in § 225.5(f) may be used for conducting meal preparation facility reviews.
(j)
Forms for reviews by sponsors.
Each State agency must develop and provide monitor review forms to all approved sponsors. These forms must be completed by sponsor monitors. The monitor review form must include, but not be limited to:
(1) The time of the reviewer's arrival and departure;
(2) The site supervisor's printed name and signature;
(3) A certification statement to be signed by the monitor;
(4) The number of meals prepared or delivered;
(5) Whether the meal service is congregate or non-congregate;
(6) The number of meals served to children;
(7) The deficiencies noted;
(8) The corrective actions taken by the sponsor; and
(9) The date of such actions.
(k)
Corrective actions.
Corrective actions which the State agency may take when Program violations are observed during the conduct of a review are discussed in § 225.11. The State agency must conduct follow-up reviews as appropriate when corrective actions are required.
(l)
Other facility inspections and meal quality tests.
In addition to those inspections required by paragraph (i) of this section, the State agency may also conduct, or arrange to have conducted:
inspections of self-preparation and vended sponsors' food preparation facilities; inspections of food service sites; and meal quality tests. The procedures for carrying out these inspections and tests must be consistent with procedures used by local health authorities. For inspections of food service management companies' facilities not conducted by State agency personnel, copies of the results must be provided to the State agency. The company and the sponsor must also immediately receive a copy of the results of these inspections when corrective action is required. If a food service management company fails to correct violations noted by the State agency during a review, the State agency must notify the sponsor and the food service management company that reimbursement must not be paid for meals prepared by the food service management company after a date specified in the notification. Funds provided for in § 225.5(f) may be used for conducting these inspections and tests.
(m)
Financial management.
Each State agency must establish a financial management system, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, as applicable, and FNS guidance, to identify allowable Program costs and to establish standards for sponsor recordkeeping and reporting. The State agency must provide guidance on these financial management standards to each sponsor. Additionally, each State agency must establish a system for monitoring and reviewing sponsors' nonprofit food service to ensure that all Program reimbursement funds are used solely for the conduct of the food service operation. State agencies must review the net cash resources of the nonprofit food service of each sponsor participating in the Program and ensure that the net cash resources do not exceed one months' average expenditures for sponsors operating only during the summer months and three months' average expenditure for sponsors operating Child Nutrition Programs throughout the year. State agency approval must be required for net cash resources in excess of requirements set forth in this paragraph (m). Based on this monitoring, the State agency may provide technical assistance to the sponsor to improve meal service quality or take other action designed to improve the nonprofit meal service quality under the following conditions, including but not limited to:
(1) The sponsor's net cash resources exceed the limits included in this paragraph (m) for the sponsor's nonprofit food service or such other amount as may be approved in accordance with this paragraph;
(2) The ratio of administrative to operating costs (as defined in § 225.2) is high;
(3) There is significant use of alternative funding for food and/or other costs; or
(4) A significant portion of the food served is privately donated or purchased at a very low price.
(n)
Nondiscrimination.
(1) Each State agency must comply with all requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Department's regulations concerning nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b), including requirements for racial and ethnic participation data collection, public notification of the nondiscrimination policy, and reviews to assure compliance with such policy, to the end that no person must, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), age, or disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under the Program.
(2) Complaints of discrimination filed by applicants or participants must be referred to FNS or the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. A State agency which has an established grievance or complaint handling procedure may resolve sex and disability discrimination complaints before referring a report to FNS.
(o)
Sponsor site visit.
Each State agency must establish criteria that sponsors will use to determine which sites with operational problems in the prior year are required to receive a site visit during the first two weeks of program
operations in accordance with § 225.15(d)(2).
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13468, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72485, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72898, Dec. 29, 1999; 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 25358, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57360, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90352, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.8
Records and reports.
(a) Each State agency shall maintain complete and accurate current accounting records of its Program operations which will adequately identify funds authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, income, claims against sponsors and efforts to recover overpayments, and expenditures for administrative and operating costs. These records shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of the submission of the final Program Operations and Financial Status Report (FNS-777), except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the affected records shall be retained beyond the three year period until such time as any issues raised by the audit findings have been resolved. The State agency shall also retain a complete record of each review or appeal conducted, as required under § 225.13, for a period of three years following the date of the final determination on the review or appeal. Records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm.
(b) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a final report on the Summer Food Service Program Operations (FNS-418) for each month no more than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not postmarked and/or submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments need to be made. Adjustments to a State's report shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. Action may be taken against the State agency, in accordance with § 225.5(a)(1), for failure to submit accurate and timely reports.
(c) The State agency must submit to FNS a final Financial Status Report no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, on a form (FNS-777) provided by FNS. Any requested increase in reimbursement levels for a fiscal year resulting from corrective action taken after submission of the final Program Operations and Financial Status Reports shall be submitted to FNS for approval. The request shall be accompanied by a written explanation of the basis for the adjustment and the actions taken to minimize the need for such adjustments in the future. If FNS approves such an increase, it will make payment, subject to availability of funds. Any reduction in reimbursement for that fiscal year resulting from corrective action taken after submission of the final fiscal year Program Operations and Financial Status Reports shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of § 225.12(d), except that amounts recovered may not be used to make Program payments.
(d)(1) By May 1 of each year, State agencies must submit to the appropriate FNSRO a list of potential private nonprofit organization sponsors. The list must include the following information for each applicant sponsor:
(i) Name and address;
(ii) Geographical area(s) proposed to be served;
(iii) Proposed number of sites; and
(iv) Any available details of each proposed site including address, dates of operation, and estimated daily attendance.
(2) State agencies must also notify the appropriate FNSRO within 5 working days after they approve each private nonprofit organization to participate as a SFSP sponsor. When State agencies notify the FNSRO of sponsor approval, they must provide the following information:
(i) Any changes to site locations, dates of operation, and estimated daily attendance that was previously provided;
(ii) The hours and type(s) of approved meal service at each site;
(iii) The type of site approval—open, restricted open, closed enrolled, conditional non-congregate, or camp; and
(iv) Any other important details about each site that would help the FNSRO plan reviews, including whether the site is rural or urban, congregate or non-congregate, or vended or self-preparation.
(e) By June 30 of each year, or a later date approved by the appropriate FNSRO, the State agency must submit to FNS a list of open site locations and their operational details and provide a minimum of two updates during the summer operational period. State agencies are encouraged to submit updates weekly if there are any changes to their data.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13469, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72485, Dec. 28, 1999; 65 FR 82251, Dec. 28, 2000; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 90353, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.9
Program assistance to sponsors.
(a)
Start-up payments.
At their discretion, State agencies may make start-up payments to sponsors which have executed Program agreements. Start-up payments shall not be made more than two months before the sponsor is scheduled to begin food service operations and shall not exceed 20 percent of the sponsor's approved administrative budget. The amount of the start-up payment shall be deducted from the first advance payment or, if the sponsor does not receive advance payments, from the first reimbursement.
(b)
Commodity assistance.
(1) Sponsors eligible to receive commodities under the Program include: Self-preparation sponsors; sponsors which have entered into an agreement with a school or school food authority for the preparation of meals; and sponsors which are school food authorities and have competitively procured Program meals from the same food service management company from which they competitively procured meals for the National School Lunch Program during the last period in which school was in session. The State agency shall make available to these sponsors information on available commodities. Sponsors shall use in the Program food donated by the Department and accepted by sponsors.
(2) Not later than June 1 of each year, State agencies shall prepare a list of the sponsors which are eligible to receive commodities and the average daily number of eligible meals to be served by each of these sponsors. If the State agency does not handle the distribution of commodities donated by the Department, this list shall be forwarded to the agency of the State responsible for the distribution of commodities. The State agency shall be responsible for promptly revising the list to reflect additions or terminations of sponsors and for adjusting the average daily participation data as it deems necessary.
(c)
Advance payments.
At the sponsor's request, State agencies shall make advance payments to sponsors that have executed Program agreements in order to assist these sponsors in meeting expenses. For sponsors operating under a continuous school calendar, all advance payments shall be forwarded on the first day of each month of operation. Advance payments shall be made by the dates specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for all other sponsors whose requests are received at least 30 days prior to those dates. Requests received less than 30 days prior to those dates shall be acted upon within 30 days of receipt. When making advance payments, State agencies shall observe the following criteria:
(1)
Payments.
(i) State agencies shall make advance payments by June 1, July 15, and August 15. To be eligible for the second and third advance payments, the sponsor must certify that it is operating the number of sites for which the budget was approved and that its projected costs do not differ significantly from the approved budget. Except for school food authorities, sponsors must conduct training sessions before receiving the second advance payment. Training sessions must cover Program duties and responsibilities for the sponsor's staff and for site
personnel. A sponsor shall not receive advance payments for any month in which it will participate in the Program for less than 10 days. However, if a sponsor operates for less than 10 days in June but for at least 10 days in August, the second advance payment shall be made by August 15.
(ii) To determine the amount of the advance payment to any sponsor, the State agency shall employ whichever of the following methods will result in the larger payment:
(A) The total reimbursement paid to the sponsor for the same calendar month in the preceding year; or
(B) For vended sponsors, 50 percent of the amount determined by the State agency to be needed that month for meals, or, for self-preparation sponsors, 65 percent of the amount determined by the State agency to be needed that month for meals.
(2)
Advance payment estimates.
When determining the amount of advance payments payable to the sponsor, the State agency shall make the best possible estimate based on the sponsor's request and any other available data. Under no circumstances may the amount of the advance payment exceed the amount estimated by the State agency to be needed by the sponsor to meet Program costs.
(3)
Limit.
The sum of the advance payments to a sponsor for any one month shall not exceed $40,000 unless the State agency determines that a larger payment is necessary for the effective operation of the Program and the sponsor demonstrates sufficient administrative and managerial capability to justify a larger payment.
(4)
Deductions from advance payments.
The State agency shall deduct from advance payments the amount of any previous payment which is under dispute or which is part of a demand for recovery under § 225.12.
(5)
Withholding of advance payments.
If the State agency has reason to believe that a sponsor will not be able to submit a valid claim for reimbursement covering the month for which advance payments have already been made, the subsequent month's advance payment shall be withheld until a valid claim is received.
(6)
Repayment of excess advance payments.
Upon demand of the State agency, sponsors shall repay any advance Program payments in excess of the amount cited on a valid claim for reimbursement.
(d)
Reimbursements.
Sponsors shall not be eligible for meal reimbursements unless they have executed an agreement with the State agency. All reimbursements shall be in accordance with the terms of this agreement. Reimbursements shall not be paid for meals served at a site before the sponsor has received written notification that the site has been approved for participation in the Program. Income accruing to a sponsor's program shall be deducted from costs. The State agency may make full or partial reimbursement upon receipt of a claim for reimbursement, but shall first make any necessary adjustments in the amount to be paid. The following requirements shall be observed in submitting and paying claims:
(1) School food authorities that operate the Program, and operate more than one child nutrition program under a single State agency, must use a common claim form (as provided by the State agency) for claiming reimbursement for meals served under those programs.
(2) No reimbursement may be issued until the sponsor certifies that it operated all sites for which it is approved and that there has been no significant change in its projected expenses since its preceding claim and, for a sponsor receiving an advance payment for only one month, that there has been no significant change in its projected expenses since its initial advance payment.
(3) Sponsors must submit a monthly claim or a combined claim within 60 days of the last day of operation. Sponsors may not submit a combined claim for meal reimbursements that crosses fiscal years. In addition, State agencies must ensure that the correct reimbursement rates are applied for meals claimed for months when different reimbursement rates are in effect. With approval from the State agency, sponsors have the flexibility to combine the claim for reimbursement in the following ways:
(i) For 10 operating days or less in their initial month of operations with the claim for the subsequent month;
(ii) For 10 operating days or less in their final month of operations with the claim for the preceding month; or
(iii) For 3 consecutive months, as long as this combined claim only includes 10 operating days or less from each of the first and last months of program operations.
(4) The State agency must forward reimbursements within 45 calendar days of receiving valid claims. If a claim is incomplete, invalid, or potentially unlawful per paragraph (d)(10) of this section, the State agency must return the claim to the sponsor within 30 calendar days with an explanation of the reason for disapproval and how such claim must be revised for payment. If the sponsor submits a revised claim, final action must be completed within 45 calendar days of receipt unless the State agency has reason to believe the claim is unlawful per paragraph (d)(10) in this section. If the State agency disallows partial or full payment for a claim for reimbursement, it must notify the sponsor which submitted the claim of its right to appeal under § 225.13(a).
(5) Claims for reimbursement shall report information in accordance with the financial management system established by the State agency, and in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the Reports of Summer Food Service Program Operations required under § 225.8(b). In submitting a claim for reimbursement, each sponsor shall certify that the claim is correct and that records are available to support this claim. Failure to maintain such records may be grounds for denial of reimbursement for meals claimed during the period covered by the records in question. The costs of meals to adults performing necessary food service labor may be included in the claim. Under no circumstances may a sponsor claim the cost of any disallowed meals as operating costs.
(6) A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked or submitted to the State agency not later than 60 days after the last day of the month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not filed within the 60 day deadline shall not be paid with Program funds unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted. The State agency shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement as determined necessary through its claim review process or otherwise. In taking such corrective action, State agencies may make upward adjustments in Program funds claimed on claims filed within the 60 day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the month covered by the claim and are reflected in the final Program Operations Report (FNS-418). Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-418 for the month covered by the claim cannot be made unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments in Program funds claimed shall always be made without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.
(7) Payments to a sponsor must equal the amount derived by multiplying the number of eligible meals, by type, actually served under the sponsor's program to eligible children by the current applicable reimbursement rate for each meal type. Sponsors must be eligible to receive additional reimbursement for each meal served to participating children at rural or self-preparation sites.
(8) On each January 1, or as soon thereafter or as practicable, FNS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing any adjustment to the reimbursement rates described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Adjustments will be based upon changes in the series for food away from home of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers since the establishment of the rates. Higher rates will be established for Alaska and Hawaii, based on the CPI for those States.
(9) Sponsors of camps are reimbursed only for meals served to children in camps whose eligibility for Program meals is documented.
(10) Sponsors of NYSP sites are reimbursed only for meals served to children enrolled in the NYSP.
(11) Sponsors of conditional non-congregate sites are reimbursed only for meals served to children whose eligibility for Program meals is documented.
(12) If a State agency has reason to believe that a sponsor or food service management company has engaged in unlawful acts in connection with Program operations, evidence found in audits, reviews, or investigations must be a basis for nonpayment of the applicable sponsor's claims for reimbursement. The State agency may be exempt from the requirement stated in paragraph (d)(4) of this section that final action on a claim must be complete within 45 calendar days of receipt of a revised claim if the State agency determines that a thorough examination of potentially unlawful acts would not be possible in the required timeframe. The State agency must notify the appropriate FNSRO of its election to take the exemption from the requirement stated in paragraph (d)(4) of this section by submitting to the FNSRO a copy of the claim disapproval at the same time as it is provided to the sponsor.
(e) The sponsor may claim reimbursement for any meals which are examined for meal quality by the State agency, auditors, or local health authorities and found to meet the meal pattern requirements.
(f)
Meal claiming.
The sponsor must not claim reimbursement for meals served to children at any site in excess of the site's approved level of meal service, if one has been established under § 225.6(h)(2). However, the total number of meals for which operating costs are claimed may exceed the approved level of meal service if the meals exceeding this level were served to adults performing necessary food service labor in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section. In reviewing a sponsor's claim for congregate meals served, the State agency must ensure that reimbursements for second meals are limited to the percentage tolerance established in § 225.15(b)(4).
(g)
Unused reimbursement.
If a sponsor receives more reimbursement than expended on allowable costs, the sponsor should use this unused reimbursement to improve the meal service or management of the Program. Unused reimbursement remaining at the end of the Program year must be used to pay allowable costs of other Child Nutrition Programs or for SFSP operations the following Program year.
(1) If a sponsor does not return to participate in the Program the following year and does not operate any other Child Nutrition Programs, the sponsor is not required to return the unused reimbursement to the State agency.
(2) [Reserved]
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13469, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72485, Dec. 28, 1999; 83 FR 25358, June 1, 2018; 84 FR 15501, Apr. 16, 2019; 87 FR 57364, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90353, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.10
Audits and management evaluations.
(a)
Audits.
State agencies shall arrange for audits of their own operations to be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. Unless otherwise exempt, sponsors shall arrange for audits to be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. State agencies shall provide OIG with full opportunity to audit the State agency and sponsors. Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and sponsor levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. While OIG shall rely to the fullest extent feasible upon State-sponsored audits of sponsors, it shall, when considered necessary, (1) make audits on a State-wide basis, (2) perform on-site test audits, and (3) review audit reports and related working papers of audits performed by or for State agencies.
(b)
Management evaluations.
(1) State agencies shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to sponsors) of all operations of the State agency. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records
of the receipts and expenditures of funds, upon a reasonable request by FNS.
(2) The State agency shall fully respond to any recommendations made by FNSRO pursuant to the management evaluation.
(3) FNSRO may require the State agency to submit on 20 days notice a corrective action plan regarding serious problems observed during any phase of the management evaluation.
(c)
Disregards.
In conducting management evaluations or audits for any fiscal year, the State agency, FNS or OIG may disregard overpayment which does not exceed $100 or, in the case of State agency administered programs, does not exceed the amount established by State law, regulations or procedures as a minimum for which claims will be made for State losses generally. No overpayment shall be disregarded, however, when there are unpaid claims for the same fiscal year from which the overpayment can be deducted or when there is substantial evidence of violation of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 225.11
Corrective action procedures.
(a)
Purpose.
The provisions in this section shall be used by the State agency to improve Program performance.
(b)
Investigations.
Each State agency shall promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of the Program, and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. The State agency shall maintain on file all evidence relating to such investigations and actions. The State agency shall inform the appropriate FNSRO of any suspected fraud or criminal abuse in the Program which would result in a loss or misuse of Federal funds. The Department may make investigations at the request of the State agency, or where the Department determines investigations are appropriate.
(c)
Denial of applications and termination of sponsors.
Except as specified below, the State agency shall not enter into an agreement with any applicant sponsor identifiable through its corporate organization, officers, employees, or otherwise, as an institution which participated in any Federal child nutrition program and was seriously deficient in its operation of any such program. The State agency shall terminate the Program agreement with any sponsor which it determines to be seriously deficient. However, the State agency shall afford a sponsor reasonable opportunity to correct problems before terminating the sponsor for being seriously deficient. The State agency may approve the application of a sponsor which has been disapproved or terminated in prior years in accordance with this paragraph if the sponsor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State agency that the sponsor has taken appropriate corrective actions to prevent recurrence of the deficiencies. Serious deficiencies which are grounds for disapproval of applications and for termination include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
(1) Noncompliance with the applicable bid procedures and contract requirements of Federal child nutrition program regulations;
(2) The submission of false information to the State agency;
(3) Failure to return to the State agency any start-up or advance payments which exceeded the amount earned for serving meals in accordance with this part, or failure to submit all claims for reimbursement in any prior year, provided that failure to return any advance payments for months for which claims for reimbursement are under dispute from any prior year shall not be grounds for disapproval in accordance with this paragraph; and
(4) Program violations at a significant proportion of the sponsor's sites. Such violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Noncompliance with the meal service time restrictions set forth at § 225.16(c), as applicable;
(ii) Failure to maintain adequate records;
(iii) Failure to adjust meal orders to conform to variations in the number of participating children;
(iv) For congregate meal service operations, the simultaneous service of more than one meal to any child;
(v) The claiming of Program payments for meals not served to participating children;
(vi) For non-congregate meal service operations, distributing more than the daily meal limit when multi-day service is used;
(vii) Service of a significant number of meals which did not include required quantities of all meal components;
(viii) For congregate meal service operations, excessive instances of off-site meal consumption;
(ix) Continued use of food service management companies that are in violation of health codes.
(d)
Meal service restriction.
(1) With the exception for residential camps and non-congregate meal service set forth at § 225.16(b)(1)(ii) and (b)(5)(iii), respectively, the State agency must restrict to one meal service per day:
(i) Any food service site which is determined to be in violation of the time restrictions for meal service set forth at § 225.16(c) when corrective action is not taken within a reasonable time as determined by the State agency; and
(ii) All sites under a sponsor if more than 20 percent of the sponsor's sites are determined to be in violation of the time restrictions set forth at § 225.16(c).
(2) If this action results in children not receiving meals under the Program, the State agency must make reasonable effort to locate another source of meal service for these children.
(e)
Meal disallowances.
(1) If the State agency determines that a sponsor has failed to plan, prepare, or order meals with the objective of providing only one meal per child at each meal service at a site, the State agency shall disallow the number of children's meals prepared or ordered in excess of the number of children served.
(2) If the State agency observes meal service violations during the conduct of a site review, the State agency shall disallow as meals served to children all of the meals observed to be in violation.
(3) The State agency shall also disallow children's meals which are in excess of a site's approved level established under § 225.6(h)(2).
(f)
Corrective action and termination of sites.
(1) Whenever the State agency observes violations during the course of a site review, it shall require the sponsor to take corrective action. If the State agency finds a high level of meal service violations, the State agency shall require a specific immediate corrective action plan to be followed by the sponsor and shall either conduct a follow-up visit or in some other manner verify that the specified corrective action has been taken.
(2) The State agency shall terminate the participation of a sponsor's site if the sponsor fails to take action to correct the Program violations noted in a State agency review report within the timeframes established by the corrective action plan.
(3) The State agency shall immediately terminate the participation of a sponsor's site if during a review it determines that the health or safety of the participating children is imminently threatened.
(4) If the site is vended, the State agency shall within 48 hours notify the food service management company providing meals to the site of the site's termination.
(g)
Technical assistance for improved meal service.
If the State agency finds that a sponsor is operating a program with poor quality meal service and is operating below the reimbursement level, the State agency should provide technical assistance to the sponsor to improve the meal service.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13469, Apr. 10, 1990; 83 FR 25360, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57364, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90353, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.12
Claims against sponsors.
(a) The State agency shall disallow any portion of a claim for reimbursement and recover any payment to a sponsor not properly payable under this part, except as provided for in § 225.10(c). State agencies shall consider claims for reimbursement not properly payable if a sponsor's records do not support all meals claimed and include all costs associated with the Program sufficient to justify that reimbursements were spent only on allowable Child Nutrition Program costs. However, the State agency shall notify the sponsor of the reasons for any disallowance or demand for repayment.
(b) Minimum State agency collection procedures for unearned payments shall include:
(1) Written demand to the sponsor for the return of improper payments;
(2) If after 30 calendar days the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, a second written demand for the return of improper payments, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested;
(3) If after 60 calendar days following the original written demand, the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, a third written demand for the return of improper payments, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested;
(4) If after 90 calendar days following the original written demand, the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, the State agency shall refer the claim against the sponsor to the appropriate State or Federal authorities for pursuit of legal remedies.
(c) If FNS does not concur with the State agency's action in paying a sponsor or in failing to collect an overpayment, FNS shall notify the State agency of its intention to assert a claim against the State agency. In all such cases, the State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence concerning the action taken. The State agency shall be liable to FNS for failure to collect an overpayment unless FNS determines that the State agency has conformed with this part in issuing the payment and has exerted reasonable efforts in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section to recover the improper payment.
(d) The amounts recovered by the State agency from sponsors may be utilized to make Program payments to sponsors for the period for which the funds were initially available and/or to repay the State for any of its own funds used to make payments on claims for reimbursement. Any amounts recovered which are not so utilized shall be returned to FNS in accordance with the requirements of this part.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 83 FR 25360, June 1, 2018]
§ 225.13
Appeal procedures.
(a) Each State agency shall establish a procedure to be followed by an applicant appealing: A denial of an application for participation; a denial of a sponsor's request for an advance payment; a denial of a sponsor's claim for reimbursement (except for late submission under § 225.9(d)(6)); a State agency's refusal to forward to FNS an exception request by the sponsor for payment of a late claim or a request for an upward adjustment to a claim; a claim against a sponsor for remittance of a payment; the termination of the sponsor or a site; a denial of a sponsor's application for a site; a denial of a food service management company's application for registration, if applicable; or the revocation of a food service management company's registration, if applicable. Appeals shall not be allowed on decisions made by FNS with respect to late claims or upward adjustments under § 225.9(d)(6).
(b) At a minimum, appeal procedures shall provide that:
(1) The sponsor or food service management company be advised in writing of the grounds upon which the State agency based the action. The notice of action shall also state that the sponsor or food service management company has the right to appeal the State's action. The notice is considered to be received by the sponsor or food service management company when it is delivered by certified mail, return receipt (or the equivalent private delivery service), by facsimile, or by email. If the notice is undeliverable, it is considered to be received by the sponsor or food service management company five days after being sent to the addressee's last known mailing address, facsimile number, or email address;
(2) The sponsor or food service management company be advised in writing that the appeal must be made within a specified time and must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The State agency shall establish this period of time at not less than one week nor more than two weeks from the date on which the notice of action is received;
(3) The appellant be allowed the opportunity to review any information upon which the action was based;
(4) The appellant be allowed to refute the charges contained in the notice of action either in person or by filing written documentation with the review official. To be considered, written documentation must be submitted by the appellant within seven days of submitting the appeal, must clearly identify the State agency action being appealed, and must include a photocopy of the notice of action issued by the State agency;
(5) A hearing be held by the review official in addition to, or in lieu of, a review of written information submitted by the appellant only if the appellant so specifies in the letter appealing the action. The appellant may retain legal counsel or may be represented by another person. Failure of the appellant's representative to appear at a scheduled hearing shall constitute the appellant's waiver of the right to a personal appearance before the review official, unless the review official agrees to reschedule the hearing. A representative of the State agency shall be allowed to attend the hearing to respond to the appellant's testimony and written information and to answer questions from the review official;
(6) If the appellant has requested a hearing, the appellant and the State agency shall be provided with at least 5 days advance written notice, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the time and place of the hearing;
(7) The hearing be held within 14 days of the date of the receipt of the request for review, but, where applicable, not before the appellant's written documentation is received in accordance with paragraphs (b) (4) and (5) of this section;
(8) The review official be independent of the original decision-making process;
(9) The review official make a determination based on information provided by the State agency and the appellant, and on Program regulations;
(10) Within 5 working days after the appellant's hearing, or within 5 working days after receipt of written documentation if no hearing is held, the reviewing official make a determination based on a full review of the administrative record and inform the appellant of the determination of the review by certified mail, return receipt requested;
(11) The State agency's action remain in effect during the appeal process. However, participating sponsors and sites may continue to operate the Program during an appeal of termination, and if the appeal results in overturning the State agency's decision, reimbursement shall be paid for meals served during the appeal process. However, such continued Program operation shall not be allowed if the State agency's action is based on imminent dangers to the health or welfare of children. If the sponsor or site has been terminated for this reason, the State agency shall so specify in its notice of action; and
(12) The determination by the State review official is the final administrative determination to be afforded to the appellant.
(c) The State agency shall send written notification of the complete appeal procedures and of the actions which are appealable, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, to each potential sponsor applying to participate and to each food service management company applying to register in accordance with § 225.6(k).
(d) A record regarding each review shall be kept by the State agency, as required under § 225.8(a). The record shall document the State agency's compliance with these regulations and shall include the basis for its decision.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 64 FR 72486, Dec. 28, 1999; 78 FR 13450, Feb. 28, 2013; 83 FR 25360, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57364, Sept. 19, 2022]

# Subpart C—Sponsor and Site Provisions
§ 225.14
Requirements for sponsor participation.
(a)
Applications.
Sponsors must make written application to the State agency to participate in the Program which must include all content required under § 225.6(c). Such application must be made on a timely basis in accordance with the requirements of § 225.6(b)(1). Sponsors proposing to operate a site during an unanticipated
school closure may be exempt, at the discretion of the State agency, from submitting a new application if they have participated in the program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior 2 calendar years.
(b)
Sponsor eligibility.
Applicants eligible to sponsor the Program include:
(1) Public or nonprofit private school food authorities;
(2) Public or nonprofit private residential summer camps;
(3) Units of local, municipal, county, or State governments;
(4) Public or private nonprofit colleges or universities which are currently participating in the National Youth Sports Program; and
(5) Private nonprofit organizations as defined in § 225.2, as determined annually.
(c)
General requirements.
No applicant sponsor shall be eligible to participate in the Program unless it:
(1) Demonstrates financial and administrative capability for Program operations and accepts final financial and administrative responsibility for total Program operations at all sites at which it proposes to conduct a food service in accordance with the performance standards described under § 225.6(d) of this part.
(i) In general, an applicant sponsor which is a school food authority in good standing in the National School Lunch Program or an institution in good standing in the Child and Adult Care Food Program applying to operate the Program at the same sites where they provide meals through the aforementioned Programs, is not required to submit a management plan as described under § 225.6(e) or further demonstrate financial and administrative capability for Program operations.
(ii) If the State agency has reason to believe that financial or administrative capability would pose significant challenges for an applicant sponsor which is a school food authority in the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program, as applicable, or an institution in the Child and Adult Care Food Program, the State agency may request a Management plan or additional evidence of financial and administrative capability sufficient to ensure that the school food authority or institution has the ability and resources to operate the Program.
(iii) If the State agency approving the application for the Program is not responsible for the administration of the National School Lunch Program or the Child and Adult Care Food Program, the State agency must develop a process for sharing information with the agency responsible for approving these programs in order to receive documentation of the applicant sponsor's financial and administrative capability.
(2) Has not been seriously deficient in operating the Program;
(3) Will conduct a regularly scheduled food service for children from areas in which poor economic conditions exist, or qualifies as a camp or a conditional non-congregate site;
(4) Has adequate supervisory and operational personnel for overall monitoring and management of each site, including a site supervisor, and adequate personnel to conduct the visits and reviews required in § 225.15(d)(2) and (3), as demonstrated in the management plan submitted with the program application described under § 225.6(e);
(5) Provides an ongoing year-round service to the community which it proposes to serve under the Program, except as provided for in § 225.6(b)(4);
(6) Certifies that all sites have been visited and have the capability and the facilities to provide the meal service planned for the number of children anticipated to be served; and
(7) Enters into a written agreement with the State agency upon approval of its application, as required in § 225.6(i).
(d)
Requirements specific to sponsor types.
(1) If the sponsor is a camp, it must certify that it will collect information on participants' eligibility to support its claim for reimbursement.
(2) If the sponsor administers the Program at sites that provide summer school sessions, it must ensure that these sites are open to children enrolled in summer school and to all children residing in the area served by the site.
(3) Sponsors which are units of local, municipal, county, or State government, and sponsors which are private nonprofit organizations, will only be
approved to administer the Program at sites where they have administrative oversight. Administrative oversight means that the sponsor shall be responsible for:
(i) Maintaining contact with meal service staff, ensuring that there is adequately trained meal service staff on site, monitoring the meal service throughout the period of Program participation, and terminating meal service at a site if staff fail to comply with Program regulations; and
(ii) Exercising management control over Program operations at sites throughout the period of Program participation by performing the functions specified in § 225.15.
(4) If the sponsor administers NYSP sites, it must ensure that all children at these sites are enrolled participants in the NYSP.
(5) If the sponsor is a private nonprofit organization, it must certify that it:
(i) Exercises full control and authority over the operation of the Program at all sites under the sponsorship of the organization;
(ii) Provides ongoing year-round activities for children or families;
(iii) Demonstrates that the organization has adequate management and the fiscal capacity to operate the Program;
(iv) Is an organization described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 501(a) of that Code; and
(v) Meets applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards.
(6) If the sponsor operates a non-congregate meal service that will deliver meals directly to a child's residence, it must obtain written parental consent prior to providing meals to children in that household.
(7) If the sponsor operates a conditional non-congregate site, it must certify that it will collect information to determine children's Program eligibility to support its claim for reimbursement.
(8) If the sponsor is not a school food authority, it must enter into a written agreement or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the State agency or school food authority if it chooses to receive school data for the purposes of identifying eligible children and determining children's Program eligibility, as required under § 225.15(k).
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13469, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72486, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72898, Dec. 29, 1999; 65 FR 50128, Aug. 17, 2000; 78 FR 13450, Feb. 28, 2013; 83 FR 25360, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57364, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90353, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.15
Management responsibilities of sponsors.
(a)
General.
(1) Sponsors shall operate the food service in accordance with: the provisions of this part; any instructions and handbooks issued by FNS under this part; and any instructions and handbooks issued by the State agency which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part.
(2) Sponsors shall not claim reimbursement under parts 210, 215, 220, or 226 of this chapter. In addition, the sponsor must ensure that records of any site serving homeless children accurately reflect commodity allotments received as a “charitable institution”, as defined in §§ 250.3 and 250.41 of this chapter. Commodities received for Program meals must be based only on the number of eligible children's meals served. Sponsors may use funds from other Federally-funded programs to supplement their meal service but must, in calculating their claim for reimbursement, deduct such funds from total operating and administrative costs in accordance with the definition of “income accruing to the Program” at § 225.2 and with the regulations at § 225.9(d). Sponsors which are school food authorities may use facilities, equipment and personnel supported by funds provided under this part to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
).
(3) No sponsor may contract out for the management responsibilities of the Program described in this section.
(4) Sponsors must maintain documentation of a nonprofit food service including copies of all revenues received and expenses paid from the nonprofit food service account. Program reimbursements and expenditures may be included in a single nonprofit food service account with funds from any
other Child Nutrition Programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, except the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children. All Program reimbursement funds must be used solely for the conduct of the nonprofit food service operation. The net cash resources of the nonprofit food service of each sponsor participating in the Program may not exceed one month's average expenditures for sponsors operating only during the summer months and three months' average expenditures for sponsors operating Child Nutrition Programs throughout the year. State agency approval shall be required for net cash resources in excess of the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a)(4). Sponsors shall monitor Program costs and, in the event that net cash resources exceed the requirements outlined, take action to improve the meal service or other aspects of the Program.
(b)
Meal Ordering.
(1) Each sponsor shall, to the maximum extent feasible, utilize either its own food service facilities or obtain meals from a school food service facility. If the sponsor obtains meals from a school food service facility, the applicable requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the sponsor and the school.
(2) Upon approval of its application or any adjustment in the approved levels of meal service for its sites established under § 225.6(h)(2), vended sponsors shall inform their food service management company of the approved level at each site for which the food service management company will provide meals.
(3) All sponsors must plan for and prepare or order meals on the basis of participation trends with the objective of providing only one meal per child at each meal service.
(i) The sponsor must make the adjustments necessary to achieve this objective using the results from its monitoring of sites.
(ii) The sponsor must adjust the number of meals ordered or prepared whenever the number of children receiving meals is below the maximum approved level of meal service.
(iii) The sponsor must not order or prepare meals for children at any site in excess of the site's approved level, but may order or prepare meals above the approved level if the meals are to be served to adults performing necessary food service labor in accordance with § 225.9(d)(5).
(iv) Records of participation and of preparation or ordering of meals must be maintained to demonstrate positive action toward meeting the objective of this paragraph (b)(3).
(4) In recognition of the fluctuation in participation levels which makes it difficult to estimate precisely the number of meals needed and to reduce the resultant waste, sponsors may claim reimbursement for a number of second meals which does not exceed 2 percent of the number of first meals served to children for each meal type (
i.e.,
breakfasts, lunches, supplements, or suppers) during the claiming period for congregate meals served. The State agency must disallow all claims for second meals if it determines that the sponsor failed to plan and prepare or order meals with the objective of providing only one meal per child at each meal service. Second meals must be served only after all participating children at the site's congregate meal service have been served a meal. Second meals may not be served as part of a non-congregate meal service.
(c)
Records and claims.
(1) Sponsors shall maintain accurate records justifying all meals claimed and documenting that all Program funds were spent only on allowable Child Nutrition Program costs. Failure to maintain such records may be grounds for denial of reimbursement for meals served and/or administrative costs claimed during the period covered by the records in question. The sponsor's records shall be available at all times for inspection and audit by representatives of the Secretary, the Comptroller General of the United States, and the State agency for a period of three years following the date of submission of the final claim for reimbursement for the fiscal year.
(2) Sponsors shall submit claims for reimbursement in accordance with this part. All final claims must be submitted to the State agency within 60
days following the last day of the month covered by the claim.
(d)
Training and monitoring.
(1) Each sponsor must hold Program training sessions for its administrative and site personnel and must not allow a site to operate until personnel have attended at least one of these training sessions. The State agency may waive these training requirements for operation of the Program during unanticipated school closures.
(i) Training of site personnel must, at a minimum, include: the purpose of the Program; site eligibility; recordkeeping; site operations, including both congregate and non-congregate meal services; meal pattern requirements; and the duties of a monitor.
(ii) Each sponsor must ensure that its administrative personnel attend State agency training provided to sponsors, and sponsors must provide training throughout the summer to ensure that administrative personnel are thoroughly knowledgeable in all required areas of Program administration and operation and are provided with sufficient information to enable them to carry out their Program responsibilities.
(iii) Each site must have present at each meal service at least one person who has received this training.
(2) Sponsors must conduct pre-operational visits for new sites, sites that experienced operational problems the previous year, and existing sites that are new to non-congregate meal service, to determine that the sites have the capacity to provide meal service for the anticipated number of children in attendance and the capability to conduct the proposed meal service.
(3) Sponsors must visit each of their sites, as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section, at least once during the first two weeks of program operations and must promptly take such actions as are necessary to correct any deficiencies. In cases where the site operates for seven calendar days or fewer, the visit must be conducted during the period of operation. Sponsors must conduct these visits for:
(i) All new sites;
(ii) All existing sites that are new to providing non-congregate meal service;
(iii) All sites that have been determined by the sponsor to need a visit based on criteria established by the State agency pertaining to operational problems noted in the prior year, as set forth in § 225.7(o); and
(iv) Any other sites that the State agency has determined need a visit.
(4) Sponsors must conduct a full review of food service operations at each site at least once during the first four weeks of Program operations, and thereafter must maintain a reasonable level of site monitoring. Sponsors must complete a monitoring form developed by the State agency during the conduct of these reviews. Sponsors may conduct a full review of food service operations at the same time they are conducting a site visit required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(e)
Notification to the community.
Each sponsor must annually announce in the media serving the area from which it draws its attendance the availability of free meals. Sponsors of camps, closed enrolled sites, and conditional non-congregate sites must notify participants of the availability of free meals and if a free meal application is needed, as outlined in paragraph (f) of this section. For sites that use free meal applications to determine individual eligibility, notification to enrolled children must include: the Secretary's family-size and income standards for reduced price school meals labeled “SFSP Income Eligibility Standards;” a statement that a foster child and children who are members of households receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits are automatically eligible to receive free meal benefits at eligible program sites; and a statement that meals are available without regard to race, color, national origin, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), age, or disability. State agencies may issue a media release for all sponsors operating SFSP sites in the State as long as the notification meets the requirements in this section.
(f)
Application for free Program
meals—(1)
Purpose of application form.
The application is used to determine the eligibility of children attending camps and the eligibility of sites that do not meet the requirements in paragraphs (1) through (3) of the definition
of “areas in which poor economic conditions exist” in § 225.2.
(2)
Application procedures based on household income.
The household member completing the application on behalf of the child enrolled in the Program must provide the following information:
(i) The names of all children for whom application is made;
(ii) The names of all other household members;
(iii) The last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application or an indication that the household member does not have a social security number;
(iv) The income received by each household member identified by source of income;
(v) The signature of an adult household member;
(vi) The date the application is completed and signed.
(3)
Application based on the household's receipt of SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits.
Households may apply on the basis of receipt of SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits by providing the following information:
(i) The name(s) and SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF case number(s) of the child(ren) who are enrolled in the Program; and
(ii) The signature of an adult household member.
(4)
Information or notices required on application forms.
Application forms or descriptive materials given to households about applying for free meals must contain the following information:
(i) The family-size and income levels for reduced price school meal eligibility with an explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to these values are eligible for free Program meals (
Note:
The income levels for free school meal eligibility must not be included on the application or in other materials given to the household).
(ii) A statement that a foster child who is a member of a household that receives SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits is automatically eligible to receive free meals in the Program;
(iii) A statement informing households of how information provided on the application will be used. Each application for free meals must include substantially the following statement:
(A) “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this application. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve your child for free or reduced-price meals. You must include the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application. The last four digits of the social security number are not required when you apply on behalf of a foster child or you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program or Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) case number or other FDPIR identifier for your child or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a social security number. We MAY share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs, and with auditors for program reviews and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.”
(B) When the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, must be added to the statement. State agencies and sponsors are responsible for drafting the appropriate notice.
(iv) The statement used to inform the household about the use of social security numbers must comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579). If a State or local agency plans to use the social security numbers for uses not described in paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section, the notice must be revised to explain those uses.
(v) Examples of income that should be provided on the application, including: Earnings, wages, welfare benefits, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security, and other cash income;
(vi) A notice placed immediately above the signature block stating that
the person signing the application certifies that all information provided is correct, that the household is applying for Federal benefits in the form of free Program meals, that Program officials may verify the information on the application, and that purposely providing untrue or misleading statements may result in prosecution under State or Federal criminal laws; and
(vii) A statement that if SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF case numbers are provided, they may be used to verify the current SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF certification for the children for whom free meals benefits are claimed.
(5)
Verifying information on Program applications.
Households selected to verify information on their Program applications must be notified in writing that:
(i) They will lose Program benefits or be terminated from participation if they do not cooperate with the verification process;
(ii) They will be given the name and phone number of an official who can assist in the verification process;
(iii) Verification may occur during program reviews, audits, and investigations;
(iv) Verification may include contacting employers, SNAP or welfare offices, or State employment offices to determine the accuracy of statements on the application about income, receipt of SNAP, FDPIR, TANF, or unemployment benefits; and
(v) They may lose benefits or face claims or legal action if incorrect information is reported on the application.
(g)
Disclosure of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information to certain programs and individuals without parental consent.
The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, may disclose aggregate information about children eligible for free and reduced price meals to any party without parental notification and consent when children cannot be identified through release of the aggregate data or by means of deduction. Additionally, the State agency or sponsor may disclose information that identifies children eligible for free and reduced price meals to the programs and the individuals specified in this paragraph (g) without parent/guardian consent. The State agency or sponsor that makes the free and reduced price meal eligibility determination is responsible for deciding whether to disclose program eligibility information.
(1)
Persons authorized to receive eligibility information.
Only persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section may have access to children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information, without parental consent. Persons considered directly connected with administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section are Federal, State, or local program operators responsible for the ongoing operation of the program or activity or persons responsible for program compliance. Program operators may include persons responsible for carrying out program requirements and monitoring, reviewing, auditing, or investigating the program. Program operators may include contractors, to the extent those persons have a need to know the information for program administration or enforcement. Contractors may include evaluators, auditors, and others with whom Federal or State agencies and program operators contract with to assist in the administration or enforcement of their program in their behalf.
(2)
Disclosure of children's names and free or reduced price meal eligibility status.
The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, only children's names and eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free meals or reduced price meals) to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of:
(i) A Federal education program;
(ii) A State health program or State education program administered by the State or local education agency;
(iii) A Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition program with eligibility standards comparable to the National School Lunch Program (i.e., food assistance programs for households with incomes at or below 185 percent of the Federal poverty level); or
(3)
Disclosure of all eligibility information.
In addition to children's names and eligibility status, the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, all eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal eligibility process (including all information on the application or obtained through direct certification) to:
(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. This means that all eligibility information obtained for the Summer Food Service Program may be disclosed to persons directly connected with administering or enforcing regulations under the National School Lunch Program, Special Milk Program, School Breakfast Program, Child and Adult Care Food Program, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) (parts 210, 215, 220, 226 and 246, respectively, of this chapter);
(ii) The Comptroller General of the United States for purposes of audit and examination; and
(iii) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the programs listed in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section.
(4)
Use of free and reduced price meals eligibility information by programs other than Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP).
State agencies and sponsors may use children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information for administering or enforcing the Summer Food Service Program. Additionally, any other Federal, State, or local agency charged with administering or enforcing the Summer Food Service Program may use the information for that purpose. Individuals and programs to which children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information has been disclosed under this section may use the information only in the administration or enforcement of the receiving program. No further disclosure of the information may be made.
(h)
Disclosure of children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information to Medicaid and/or CHIP, unless parents decline.
Children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information only may be disclosed to Medicaid or CHIP when both the State agency and the sponsor so elect, the parental/guardian does not decline to have their eligibility information disclosed and the other provisions described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are met. The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, may disclose children's names, eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free or reduced price meals), and any other eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal applications or obtained through direct certification to persons directly connected with the administration of Medicaid or CHIP. Persons directly connected to the administration of Medicaid and CHIP are State employees and persons authorized under Federal and State Medicaid and CHIP requirements to carry out initial processing of Medicaid or CHIP applications or to make eligibility determinations for Medicaid or CHIP.
(1) The State agency must ensure that:
(i) The sponsors and health insurance program officials have a written agreement that requires the health insurance program agency to use the eligibility information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid and CHIP; and
(ii) Parents/guardians are notified that their eligibility information may be disclosed to Medicaid or CHIP and given an opportunity to decline to have their children's eligibility information disclosed, prior to any disclosure.
(2)
Use of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information by Medicaid/CHIP.
Medicaid and CHIP agencies and health insurance program operators receiving children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information must use the information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or CHIP. The Medicaid and CHIP enrollment process may include targeting and identifying children from low-income households who are potentially eligible for Medicaid or CHIP for the purpose of seeking to enroll them in Medicaid or CHIP. No further disclosure of the information may be made. Medicaid and CHIP agencies and health insurance
program operators also may verify children's eligibility in a program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 or the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
(i)
Notifying households of potential uses and disclosures of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
Households must be informed that the information they provide on the free and reduced price meal application will be used to determine eligibility for free or reduced price meals and that their eligibility information may be disclosed to other programs.
(1) For disclosures to programs, other than Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), that are permitted access to children's eligibility information, without parental/guardian consent, the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians at the time of application that their children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information may be disclosed. The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section, “We may share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs; auditors for program reviews; and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.” For children determined eligible for free meals through the direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meals through direct certification.
(2) For disclosure to Medicaid or CHIP, the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians that their children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information will be disclosed to Medicaid and/or CHIP unless the parent/guardian elects not to have their information disclosed and notifies the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, by a date specified by the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate. Only the parent or guardian who is a member of the household or family for purposes of the free and reduced price meal application may decline the disclosure of eligibility information to Medicaid or CHIP. The notification must inform parents/guardians that they are not required to consent to the disclosure, that the information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or CHIP, and that their decision will not affect their children's eligibility for free or reduced price meals. The notification may be included in the letter/notice to parents/guardians that accompanies the free and reduced price meal application, on the application itself or in a separate notice provided to parents/guardians. The notice must give parents/guardians adequate time to respond if they do not want their information disclosed. The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (f) of this section, “We may share your information with Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program, unless you tell us not to. The information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or CHIP.” For children determined eligible for free meals through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure and opportunity to decline the disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meals through direct certification process.
(j)
Other disclosures.
State agencies and sponsors that plan to use or disclose information about children eligible for free and reduced price meals in ways not specified in this section must obtain written consent from children's parents or guardians prior to the use or disclosure.
(1) The consent must identify the information that will be shared and how the information will be used.
(2) There must be a statement informing parents and guardians that failing to sign the consent will not affect the child's eligibility for free meals and that the individuals or programs receiving the information will not share the information with any other entity or program.
(3) Parents/guardians must be permitted to limit the consent only to
those programs with which they wish to share information.
(4) The consent statement must be signed and dated by the child's parent or guardian who is a member of the household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal application.
(k)
Agreements with programs/individuals receiving children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information.
Agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) are recommended or required as follows:
(1) The State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, should have a written agreement or MOU with programs or individuals receiving eligibility information, prior to disclosing children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information. The agreement or MOU should include information similar to that required for disclosures to Medicaid and CHIP specified in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.
(2) For disclosures to Medicaid or CHIP, the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, must have a written agreement with the State or local agency or agencies administering Medicaid or CHIP prior to disclosing children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information to those agencies. At a minimum, the agreement must:
(i) Identify the health insurance program or health agency receiving children's eligibility information;
(ii) Describe the information that will be disclosed;
(iii) Require that the Medicaid or CHIP agency use the information obtained and specify that the information must be used to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or CHIP;
(iv) Require that the Medicaid or CHIP agency describe how they will use the information obtained;
(v) Describe how the information will be protected from unauthorized uses and disclosures;
(vi) Describe the penalties for unauthorized disclosure; and
(vii) Be signed by both the Medicaid or CHIP program or agency and the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate.
(l)
Penalties for unauthorized disclosure or misuse of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
In accordance with section 9(b)(6)(C) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(6)(C)), any individual who publishes, divulges, discloses or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not authorized by statute or this section, any information obtained under this section will be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for up to 1 year, or both.
(m)
Food service management companies.
(1) Failure by a sponsor to comply with the provisions of this section shall be sufficient grounds for the State agency to terminate that sponsor's participation in accordance with § 225.18.
(2) Any sponsor may contract with a food service management company to manage the sponsor's food service operations and/or for the preparation of unitized meals with or without milk or juice. Exceptions to the unitizing requirement may only be made in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 225.6(l)(3).
(3) Any vended sponsor shall be responsible for ensuring that its food service operation is in conformity with its agreement with the State agency and with all the applicable provisions of this part.
(4) In addition to any applicable State or local laws governing bid procedures, and with the exceptions identified in this paragraph, each sponsor which contracts with a food service management company shall comply with the competitive bid procedures described in this paragraph. Sponsors that are schools or school food authorities and have an exclusive contract with a food service management company for year-round service, and sponsors whose total contracts with food service management companies will not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, shall not be required to comply with these procedures. These exceptions do not relieve the sponsor of the responsibility to ensure that competitive procurement procedures are followed in contracting with any food service management company. Each sponsor whose proposed contract is subject to the specific bid procedures set forth in this paragraph shall ensure, at a minimum, that:
(i) All proposed contracts are publicly announced at least once, not less than 14 calendar days prior to the opening of bids, and the announcement includes the time and place of the bid opening;
(ii) The bids are publicly opened;
(iii) The State agency is notified, at least 14 calendar days prior to the opening of the bids, of the time and place of the bid opening;
(iv) The invitation to bid does not specify a minimum price;
(v) The invitation to bid contains a cycle menu approved by the State agency upon which the bid is based;
(vi) The invitation to bid contains food specifications and meal quality standards approved by the State agency upon which the bid is based;
(vii) The invitation to bid does not specify special meal requirements to meet ethnic or religious needs unless such special requirements are necessary to meet the needs of the children to be served;
(viii) Neither the invitation to bid nor the contract provides for loans or any other monetary benefit or term or condition to be made to sponsors by food service management companies;
(ix) Nonfood items are excluded from the invitation to bid, except where such items are essential to the conduct of the food service;
(x) Copies of all contracts between sponsors and food service management companies, along with a certification of independent price determination, are submitted to the State agency prior to the beginning of Program operations;
(xi) Copies of all bids received are submitted to the State agency, along with the sponsor's reason for choosing the successful bidder; and
(xii) All bids in an amount which exceeds the lowest bid and all bids totaling the amount specified in the small purchase threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, or more are submitted to the State agency for approval before acceptance. State agencies shall respond to a request for approval of such bids within 5 working days of receipt.
(5) Each food service management company which submits a bid exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, shall obtain a bid bond in an amount not less than 5 percent nor more than 10 percent, as determined by the sponsor, of the value of the contract for which the bid is made. A copy of the bid bond shall accompany each bid.
(6) Each food service management company which enters into a food service contract exceeding the small purchase threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, with a sponsor shall obtain a performance bond in an amount not less than 10 percent nor more than 25 percent of the value of the contract for which the bid is made, as determined by the State agency. Any food service management company which enters into more than one contract with any one sponsor shall obtain a performance bond covering all contracts if the aggregate amount of the contracts exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable. Sponsors shall require the food service management company to furnish a copy of the performance bond within ten days of the awarding of the contract.
(7) Food service management companies shall obtain bid bonds and performance bonds only from surety companies listed in the current Department of the Treasury Circular 570. No sponsor or State agency shall allow food service management companies to post any “alternative” forms of bid or performance bonds, including but not limited to cash, certified checks, letters of credit, or escrow accounts.
(n)
Other responsibilities.
Sponsors shall comply with all of the meal service requirements set forth in § 225.16.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13470, Apr. 10, 1990; 61 FR 25553, May 22, 1996; 64 FR 72486, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72898, Dec. 29, 1999; 65 FR 82251, Dec. 28, 2000; 66 FR 2202, Jan. 11, 2001; 72 FR 10895, Mar. 12, 2007; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 78 FR 13450, Feb. 28, 2013; 83 FR 25360, June 1, 2018; 84 FR 15501, Apr. 16, 2019; 87 FR 57355, 57364, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 90354, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.16
Meal service requirements.
(a)
Sanitation.
Sponsors shall ensure that in storing, preparing, and serving food, proper sanitation and health standards are met which conform with all applicable State and local laws and regulations. Sponsors shall ensure that adequate facilities are available to
store food or hold meals. Within two weeks of receiving notification of their approval, but in any case prior to commencement of Program operation, sponsors shall submit to the State agency a copy of their letter advising the appropriate health department of their intention to provide a food service during a specific period at specific sites.
(b)
Meal services.
The meals which may be served under the Program are breakfast, lunch, supper, and supplements, referred to from this point as “snacks.” No sponsor may be approved to provide more than two snacks per day. A sponsor may claim reimbursement only for the types of meals for which it is approved under its agreement with the State agency. A sponsor may only be reimbursed for meals served in accordance with this section.
(1)
Camps.
Sponsors of camps shall only be reimbursed for meals served in camps to children from families which meet the eligibility standards for this Program. The sponsor shall maintain a copy of the documentation establishing the eligibility of each child receiving meals under the Program. Meal service at camps shall be subject to the following provisions:
(i) Each day a camp may serve up to three meals or two meals and one snack;
(ii) Residential camps are not subject to the time restrictions for meal service set forth at paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section; and
(iii) A camp shall be approved to serve these meals only if it has the administrative capability to do so; if the service period of the different meals does not coincide or overlap; and, where applicable, if it has adequate food preparation and holding facilities.
(2)
NYSP Sites.
Sponsors of NYSP sites shall only be reimbursed for meals served to enrolled NYSP participants at these sites.
(3)
Restrictions on the number and type of meals served.
Food service sites other than camps and sites that primarily serve migrant children may serve either:
(i) One meal each day, a breakfast, a lunch, or snack; or
(ii) Two meals each day, if one is a lunch and the other is a breakfast or a snack.
(4)
Sites which serve children of migrant families.
Food service sites that primarily serve children from migrant families may be approved to serve each day up to three meals or two meals and one snack. These sites shall serve children in areas where poor economic conditions exist as defined in § 225.2. A sponsor which operates in accordance with this part shall receive reimbursement for all meals served to children at these sites. A site which primarily serves children from migrant families shall only be approved to serve more than one meal each day if it has the administrative capability to do so; if the service period of the different meals does not coincide or overlap; and, where applicable, if it has adequate food preparation and holding facilities.
(5)
Non-congregate meal service.
A sponsor of a site must have the administrative capability; the capacity to meet State and local health, safety, and sanitation requirements; and, where applicable, have adequate food preparation and holding facilities to be approved to serve non-congregate meals. Sponsors of sites that are approved to provide non-congregate meals in rural areas with no congregate meal service must:
(i) Obtain prior written parental consent, if meals are to be delivered to a child's home, as described in § 225.14(d)(6).
(ii) Serve meals as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(iii) Comply with meal service time requirements described in paragraphs (c)(1), (4), and (5) of this section.
(iv) Claim reimbursement for all eligible meals served to children at sites in areas in which poor economic conditions exist, as defined in § 225.2. At all other sites, only the non-congregate meals served to children who meet the eligibility standards for this Program may be reimbursed.
(c)
Meal service times.
(1) Meal service times must be:
(i) Established by sponsors for each site;
(ii) Included in the sponsor's application; and
(iii) Approved by the State agency. Approval of meal service times must be in accordance with the State agency or sponsor's capacity to monitor the full meal service during a review.
(2) Except for non-congregate meal service, breakfast meals must be served at or close to the beginning of a child's day. Three component meals served after a lunch or supper meal service are not eligible for reimbursement as a breakfast.
(3) At all sites except residential camps and non-congregate meal service, meal services must start at least one hour after the end of the previous meal or snack.
(4) Meals served outside the approved meal service time:
(i) Are not eligible for reimbursement; and
(ii) May be approved for reimbursement by the State agency only if an unanticipated event, outside of the sponsor's control, occurs. The State agency may request documentation to support approval of meals claimed when an unanticipated event occurs.
(5) The State agency must approve any permanent or planned changes in meal service time.
(6) If congregate meals are not prepared on site:
(i) Meal deliveries must arrive before the approved meal service time; and
(ii) Meals must be delivered within one hour of the start of the meal service if the site does not have adequate storage to hold hot or cold meals at the temperatures required by State or local health regulations.
(d)
Meal patterns.
The meal requirements for the Program are designed to provide nutritious and well-balanced meals to each child. Sponsors must ensure that meals served meet all of the requirements. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following tables present the minimum requirements for meals served to children in the Program. Children age 12 and up may be served larger portions based on the greater food needs of older children.
(1)
Breakfast.
The minimum amount of meal components to be served as breakfast are as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
d
)(1)—Breakfast Meal Pattern
Meal components
Minimum amount
Vegetables and Fruits
Vegetable(s) and/or fruit(s)
1/2
cup.
1
Full-strength vegetable or fruit juice or an equivalent quantity of any combination of vegetable(s), fruit(s), and juice
1/2
cup (4 fluid ounces).
Bread and Bread Alternates
2
Bread or
1 slice.
Cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc. or
1 serving.
3
Cold dry cereal or
3/4
cup or 1 ounce.
4
Cooked cereal or cereal grains or
1/2
cup.
Cooked pasta or noodle products or an equivalent quantity of any combination of bread/bread alternate
1/2
cup.
Milk
5
Milk, fluid
1 cup (
1/2
pint, 8 fluid ounces).
Meats/Meat Alternates (Optional)
Lean meat or poultry or fish or
1 ounce.
Alternate protein product
6
or
1 ounce.
Cheese or
1 ounce.
Egg (large) or
1/2
.
Cooked dry beans, peas, or lentils or
1/4
cup.
Peanut butter or
2 tablespoons.
Yogurt, plain or flavored, unsweetened or sweetened or an equivalent quantity of any combination of meats/meat alternates
4 ounces or
1/2
cup.
1
For the purposes of the requirement outlined in the table, a cup means the standard measuring cup.
2
Bread, pasta or noodle products, and cereal grains (such as rice, bulger, or corn grits) must be whole grain or enriched; cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc. must be made with whole grain or enriched meal or flour; cereal must be whole grain, enriched, or fortified.
3
Information on food crediting, including serving sizes and equivalents, may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Either volume (cup) or weight (ounces), whichever is less.
5
Milk must be served as a beverage or on cereal or used in part for each purpose.
6
Must meet the requirements in appendix A of this part.
(2)
Lunch or supper.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served as lunch or supper are as follows:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
d
)(2)—Lunch or Supper Meal Pattern
Meal components
Minimum amount
Meats/Meat Alternates
Lean meat or poultry or fish or
2 ounces.
Alternate protein products
1
or
2 ounces.
Cheese or
2 ounces.
Egg (large) or
1.
Cooked dry beans, peas, or lentils or
1/2
cup.
2
Peanut butter or soynut butter or other nut or seed butters or
4 tablespoons.
Peanuts or soynuts or tree nuts or seeds
3
or
2 ounces.
Yogurt, plain or flavored, unsweetened or sweetened or an equivalent quantity of any combination of the above meats/meat alternates
8 ounces or 1 cup.
Vegetables and Fruits
Vegetables and/or fruits
4
3/4
cup total.
Bread and Bread Alternatives
5
Bread or
1 slice.
Cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc. or
1 serving.
6
Cooked pasta or noodle products or
1/2
cup.
Cooked cereal grains or an equivalent quantity of any combination of bread or bread alternate
1/2
cup.
Milk
Milk, fluid, served as a beverage
1 cup (
1/2
pint, 8 fluid ounces).
1
Must meet the requirements of appendix A of this part.
2
For the purposes of the requirement outlined in this table, a cup means a standard measuring cup.
3
Information on crediting meats/meat alternates, including nuts and seeds, may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Serve 2 or more kinds of vegetable(s) and/or fruits or a combination of both. Full-strength vegetable or fruit juice may be offered to meet not more than one-half of this requirement.
5
Bread, pasta or noodle products, and cereal grains (such as rice, bulgur, or corn grits) must be whole grain or enriched; cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc., must be made with whole grain or enriched meal or flour; cereal must be whole grain, enriched or fortified.
6
Information on food crediting, including serving sizes and equivalents, may be found in FNS guidance.
(3)
Snacks.
The minimum amounts of meal components to be served as snacks are as follows. Select two of the following four components. (Juice may not be served when milk is served as the only other component.)
Table 3 to Paragraph (
d
)(3)—Snack Meal Pattern
Meal components
Minimum amount
Meats/Meat Alternates
Lean meat or poultry or fish or
1 ounce.
Alternate protein products
1
or
1 ounce.
Cheese or
1 ounce.
Egg (large) or
1/2
.
Cooked dry beans, peas, or lentils or
1/4
cup.
2
Peanut butter or soynut butter or other nut or seed butters or
2 tablespoons.
Peanuts or soynuts or tree nuts or seeds
3
or
1 ounce.
Yogurt, plain or flavored, unsweetened or sweetened or an equivalent quantity of any combination of the above meats/meat alternates
4 ounces or
1/2
cup.
Vegetables and Fruits
Vegetable(s) and/or fruit(s) or
3/4
cup.
Full-strength vegetable or fruit juice or an equivalent quantity or any combination of vegetable(s), fruit(s), and juice
3/4
cup (6 fluid ounces).
Bread and Bread Alternates
4
Bread or
1 slice.
Cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc. or
1 serving.
5
Cold dry cereal or
3/4
cup or 1 ounce.
6
Cooked cereal or
1/2
cup.
Cooked cereal grains or an equivalent quantity of any combination of bread/bread alternate
1/2
cup.
Milk
7
Milk, fluid
1 cup (
1/2
pint, 8 fluid ounces).
1
Must meet the requirements in appendix A of this part.
2
For the purposes of the requirement outlined in this table, a cup means a standard measuring cup.
3
Information on crediting meats/meat alternates, including nuts and seeds, may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Bread, pasta or noodle products, and cereal grains (such as rice, bulgur, or corn grits) must be whole grain or enriched; cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, etc., must be made with whole grain or enriched meal or flour; cereal must be whole grain, enriched, or fortified.
5
Information on food crediting, including serving sizes and equivalents, may be found in FNS guidance.
6
Either volume (cup) or weight (ounces), whichever is less.
7
Milk should be served as a beverage or on cereal, or used in part for each purpose.
(e)
Meat or meat alternate.
Meat or meat alternates served under the Program are subject to the following requirements and recommendations.
(1) The required quantity of meat or meat alternate shall be the quantity of the edible portion as served. These foods must be served in a main dish, or in a main dish and one other menu item.
(2) Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be used as a meat alternate or as a vegetable, but they may not be used to meet both component requirements in a meal.
(3) Enriched macaroni with fortified protein may be used to meet part but not all of the meat/meat alternate requirement. The Department will provide guidance to State agencies on the part of the meat/meat alternate requirement which these foods may be used to meet. If enriched macaroni with fortified protein is served as a meat alternate it shall not be counted toward the bread requirement.
(4) If the sponsor determines that the recommended portion size of any meat or meat alternate is too large to be appealing to children, the sponsor may reduce the portion size of that meat or meat alternate and supplement it with another meat or meat alternate to meet the full requirement.
(5) Nuts and seeds and their butters are allowed as meats/meat alternates. Acorns, chestnuts, and coconuts do not credit as meat alternates due to their low protein content. Nut and seed meals or flours may credit only if they meet the requirements for alternate protein products established in appendix A to this part.
(f)
Exceptions to and variations from the meal pattern
—(1)
Meals provided by school food authorities
—(i)
Meal pattern substitution.
School food authorities that are Program sponsors and that participate in the National School Lunch or School Breakfast Program during any time of the year may substitute the meal pattern requirements of the regulations governing those programs (Parts 210 and 220 of this chapter, respectively) for the meal pattern requirements in this section.
(ii)
Offer versus serve.
School food authorities that are Program sponsors may permit a child to refuse one or more items that the child does not intend to eat. The reimbursements to school food authorities for Program meals served under this “offer versus serve” option must not be reduced because children choose not to take all components of the meals that are offered. The school food authority may elect to use the following options:
(A) Provide meal service consistent with the National School Lunch Program, as described in part 210 of this chapter.
(B) Provide breakfast meals by offering four items from all three components specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Children may be permitted to decline one item.
(C) Provide lunch or supper meals by offering five food items from all four components specified in the meal pattern in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Children may be permitted to decline two components.
(2)
Children under 6.
The State agency may authorize the sponsor to serve food in smaller quantities than are indicated in paragraph (d) of this section to children under six years of age if the sponsor has the capability to ensure that variations in portion size are in accordance with the age levels of the children served. Sponsors wishing to serve children under one year of age shall first receive approval to do so from the State agency. In both cases, the sponsor shall follow the age-appropriate meal pattern requirements contained in the Child and Adult Care Food Program regulations (7 CFR part 226).
(3)
Bread and bread alternative substitutions.
In American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and for sponsors in any State that serve primarily American Indian or Alaska Native children, any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, may be served to meet the bread and bread alternatives requirement.
(4)
Individual substitutions.
Substitutions may be made by sponsors in food listed in paragraph (d) of this section if individual participating children are unable, because of medical or other special dietary needs, to consume such foods. Such substitutions shall be made only when supported by a statement from a recognized medical authority which includes recommended alternate foods. Such statement shall be kept on file by the sponsor.
(5)
Special variations.
FNS may approve variations in the food components of the meals on an experimental or a continuing basis for any sponsor where there is evidence that such variations are nutritionally sound and are necessary to meet ethnic, religious, economic, or physical needs.
(6)
Temporary unavailability of milk.
If emergency conditions prevent a sponsor normally having a supply of milk from temporarily obtaining milk deliveries, the State agency may approve the service of breakfasts, lunches or suppers without milk during the emergency period.
(7)
Continuing unavailability of milk.
The inability of a sponsor to obtain a supply of milk on a continuing basis shall not bar it from participation in the Program. In such cases, the State agency may approve service of meals without milk, provided that an equivalent amount of canned, whole dry or nonfat dry milk is used in the preparation of the milk components set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. In addition, the State agency may approve the use of nonfat dry milk in meals served to children participating in activities which make the service of fluid milk impracticable, and in locations which are unable to obtain fluid milk. Such authorization shall stipulate that nonfat dry milk be reconstituted at normal dilution and under sanitary conditions consistent with State and local health regulations.
(8)
Additional foods.
To improve the nutrition of participating children, additional foods may be served with each meal.
(g)
Meals served away from approved locations.
(1) Sponsors may be reimbursed for meals served away from the approved site location when the following conditions are met:
(i) The sponsor notifies the State agency in advance that meals will be served away from the approved site;
(ii) The State agency has determined that all Program requirements in this part will be met, including applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards;
(iii) The meals are served at the approved meal service time, unless a change is approved by the State agency, as required under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(iv) Sponsors of open sites continue operating at the approved location. If not possible, the State agency may permit an open site to close, in which case
the sponsor must notify the community of the change in meal service and provide information about alternative open sites.
(2) The State agency may determine that meals served away from the approved site location are not reimbursable if the sponsor did not provide notification in advance of the meal service. The State agency may establish guidelines for the amount of advance notice needed.
(h)
Off-site consumption of food items.
For congregate meal services, sponsors may allow a child to take one fruit, vegetable, or grain item off-site for later consumption without prior State agency approval provided that all applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards will be met. Sponsors should only allow an item to be taken off-site if the site has adequate staffing to properly administer and monitor the site. A State agency may prohibit individual sponsors on a case-by-case basis from using this option if the State agency determines that the sponsor's ability to provide adequate oversight is in question. The State agency's decision to prohibit a sponsor from utilizing this option is not an appealable action.
(i)
Non-congregate meal service options.
The options described in this paragraph (i) are available to all types of sponsors in good standing, as defined in § 225.2, that are approved to operate non-congregate meal service sites. The State agency may limit the use of these options on a case-by-case basis, if it determines that a sponsor does not have the capability to operate or oversee non-congregate meal services at their sites. The State agency may not limit the use of options to only certain types of sponsors. The State agency's decision to prohibit a sponsor from using the options described in this paragraph (i) is not an appealable action. Sponsors in good standing may elect to use any of the following options:
(1)
Multi-day meal issuance.
Approved sponsors may distribute up to the allowable number of reimbursable meals that would be provided over a 10-calendar day period. The State agency may establish a shorter time period, on a case-by-case basis. Sponsors electing this option must have documented procedures, submitted with their application, in place to ensure that the proper number of meals are distributed to each eligible child.
(2)
Parent or guardian pick-up of meals.
Approved sponsors may distribute meals to parents or guardians to take home to their children. Sponsors electing this option must have documented procedures, submitted with their application, in place to ensure that meals are only distributed to parents or guardians of eligible children and that duplicate meals are not distributed to any child.
(3)
Bulk meal components.
Approved self-preparation sponsors may provide bulk food items that meet the minimum amounts of each food component of a reimbursable meal breakfast, lunch, supper, or snack, as described in paragraph (d) of this section. Sponsors electing this option must ensure that:
(i) Required food components for each reimbursable meal are served, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) All food items that contribute to a reimbursable meal are clearly identifiable.
(ii) Menus are provided and clearly indicate the food items and portion sizes for each reimbursable meal.
(iv) Food preparation, such as heating or warming, is minimal. Sponsors may offer food items that require further preparation only with State agency and FNSRO approval.
(v) The maximum number of reimbursable meals provided to a child does not exceed the number of meals that could be provided over a 5-calendar day period. The State agency may establish a shorter or longer time period, which may not exceed the time period for which the sponsor is approved for multi-day meal issuance, on a case-by-case basis.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 27153, June 28, 1989; Amdt. 2, 55 FR 1377, Jan. 14, 1990; 55 FR 13470, Apr. 10, 1990; 61 FR 37672, July 19, 1996; 62 FR 10191, Mar. 6, 1997; 64 FR 72487, Dec. 28, 1999; 64 FR 72487, Dec. 28, 1999; 65 FR 12437, Mar. 9, 2000; 65 FR 82251, Dec. 28, 2000; 87 FR 57365, Sept. 19, 2022; 87 FR 79213, Dec. 27, 2022; 88 FR 90354, Dec. 29, 2023; 89 FR 32085, Apr. 25, 2024]

# Subpart D—General Administrative Provisions
§ 225.17
Procurement standards.
(a) State agencies and sponsors shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, concerning the procurement of supplies, food, equipment and other services with Program funds. These requirements ensure that such materials and services are obtained for the program efficiently and economically and in compliance with applicable laws and executive orders. Sponsors may use their own procedures for procurement with Program funds to the extent that:
(1) Procurements by public sponsors comply with applicable State or local laws and the standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415; and
(2) Procurements by private nonprofit sponsors comply with standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b) The State agency shall make available to sponsors information on 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(c) Sponsors may use their own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and local laws and regulations, provided that procurements made with Program funds conform with provisions of this section, as well as with procurement requirements which may be established by the State agency, with approval of FNS, to prevent fraud, waste, and Program abuse.
(d) The State agency shall ensure that each sponsor is aware of the following practices specified in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, with respect to minority business enterprises:
(1) Including qualified minority business enterprises on solicitation lists,
(2) Soliciting minority business enterprises whenever they are potential sources,
(3) When economically feasible, dividing total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities so as to permit maximum participation by minority business enterprises,
(4) Establishing delivery schedules which will assist minority business enterprises to meet deadlines, and
(5) Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, and the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the Department of Commerce as required.
(e)
Geographic preference.
(1) Sponsors participating in the Program may apply a geographic preference when procuring unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products, including the use of “locally grown”, “locally raised”, or “locally caught” as procurement specifications or selection criteria for unprocessed or minimally processed food items. When utilizing the geographic preference to procure such products, the sponsor making the purchase has the discretion to determine the local area to which the geographic preference option will be applied, so long as there are an appropriate number of qualified firms able to compete;
(2) For the purpose of applying the optional geographic preference in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, “unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products” means only those agricultural products that retain their inherent character. The effects of the following food handling and preservation techniques shall not be considered as changing an agricultural product into a product of a different kind or character: Cooling; refrigerating; freezing; size adjustment made by peeling, slicing, dicing, cutting, chopping, shucking, and grinding; forming ground products into patties without any additives or fillers; drying/dehydration; washing; packaging (such as placing eggs in cartons), vacuum packing and bagging (such as placing vegetables in bags or combining two or more types of vegetables or fruits in a single package); addition of ascorbic acid or other preservatives to prevent oxidation of produce; butchering livestock and poultry; cleaning fish; and the pasteurization of milk.
(f) All contracts in excess of $10,000 must contain a clause allowing termination for cause or for convenience by
the sponsor including the manner by which it will be effected and the basis for settlement.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 76 FR 22607, Apr. 22, 2011; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 25361, June 1, 2018; 87 FR 57365, Sept. 19, 2022; 89 FR 32087, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 225.18
Miscellaneous administrative provisions.
(a)
Grant closeout procedures.
Grant closeout procedures for the Program shall be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(b)
Termination for cause.
(1) FNS may terminate a State agency's participation in the Program in whole, or in part, whenever it is determined that the State agency has failed to comply with the conditions of the Program. FNS shall promptly notify the State agency in writing of the termination and reason for the termination, together with the effective date, and shall allow the State 30 calendar days to respond. In instances where the State does respond, FNS shall inform the State of its final determination no later than 30 calendar days after the State responds.
(2) A State agency shall terminate a sponsor's participation in the Program by written notice whenever it is determined by the State agency that the sponsor has failed to comply with the conditions of the Program.
(3) When participation in the Program has been terminated for cause, any funds paid to the State agency or a sponsor or any recoveries by FNS from the State agency or by the State agency from a sponsor shall be in accordance with the legal rights and liabilities of the parties.
(c)
Termination for convenience.
FNS and the State agency may agree to terminate the State agency's participation in the Program in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the Program would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date, and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. The State agency shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Department shall allow full credit to the State agency for the Federal share of the noncancellable obligation properly incurred by the State agency prior to termination. A State agency may terminate a sponsor's participation in the manner provided for in this paragraph.
(d)
Maintenance of effort.
Expenditure of funds from State and local sources for the maintenance of food programs for children shall not be diminished as a result of funds received under the Act and a certification to this effect shall become part of the agreement provided for in § 225.3(c).
(e)
Program benefits.
The value of benefits and assistance available under the Program shall not be considered as income or resources of recipients and their families for any purpose under Federal, State or local laws, including, but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs.
(f)
State requirements.
Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional operating requirements which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part, provided that such additional requirements shall not deny the Program to an area in which poor economic conditions exist, and shall not result in a significant number of needy children not having access to the Program. Prior to imposing any additional requirements, the State agency must receive approval from FNSRO.
(g)
Fraud penalty.
Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property that are the subject of a grant or other form of assistance under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets, or property to his use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets, or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both,
or if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(h)
Claims adjustment authority.
The Secretary shall have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claim arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. The Secretary shall also have the authority to waive such claims if the Secretary determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the Program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.
(i)
Data collection related to sponsors.
(1) Each State agency must collect data related to sponsors that have an agreement with the State agency to participate in the program for each of Federal fiscal years 2006 through 2009, including those sponsors that participated only for part of the fiscal year. Such data shall include:
(i) The name of each sponsor;
(ii) The city in which each participating sponsor was headquartered and the name of the state;
(iii) The amount of funds provided to the participating organization, i.e., the sum of the amount of federal funds reimbursed for operating and administrative cost; and
(iv) The type of participating organization, e.g., government agency, educational institution, non-profit organization/secular, non-profit organization/faith-based, and “other.”
(2) On or before August 31, 2007, and each subsequent year through 2010, State agencies must report to FNS data as specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section for the prior Federal fiscal year. State agencies must submit this data in a format designated by FNS.
(j)
Program evaluations.
States, State agencies, sponsors, sites and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
(k)
Fines.
(1) A sponsor that is a school food authority may be subject to fines. The State agency may establish an assessment when it has determined that the sponsor or its site has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the Program;
(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the sponsor or its site had been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements.
(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any sponsor when it has determined that the sponsor or its site has committed one or more acts under paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
(3) Funds used to pay a fine established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. In calculating an assessment, the State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the sponsor or its site for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data is available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year.
(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing the fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the sponsor written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:
(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;
(ii) Inform the institution that it may appeal the fine and advise the sponsor of the appeal procedures established under § 225.13;
(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the sponsor not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.
(5) Any sponsor subject to a fine under paragraph (k)(1) of this section
may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the sponsor must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any sponsor seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.
(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.
(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against a sponsor and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.
(l)
Updates to data sources.
By January 1 each year, or as soon as is practicable, FNS will issue any necessary updates to approved data sources listed under the definition of “rural” in § 225.2 to be used for rural site designations in that program year. FNS will make this information available and referenceable in a simplified format.
[54 FR 18208, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 13471, Apr. 10, 1990; 64 FR 72488, Dec. 28, 1999; 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 24183, May 2, 2007; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 78 FR 13450, Feb. 28, 2013; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57850, Aug. 23, 2023; 88 FR 90355, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 225.19
Program information.
Persons seeking information about this Program should contact their State administering agency or the appropriate FNSRO. The FNS website has contact information for State agencies at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/contacts
and FNSRO at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-regional-offices.
[88 FR 57850, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 225.20
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where requirements are described
Current OMB control No.
225.3-225.4.
0584-0280
225.6-225.10
0584-0280
225.12-225.13
0584-0280
225.15-225.18
0584-0280
[61 FR 25554, May 22, 1996]
Pt. 225, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 225—Alternate Foods for Meals

# Alternate Protein Products

# A. What Are the Criteria for Alternate Protein Products Used in the Summer Food Service Program?
1. An alternate protein product used in meals planned under the provisions in § 225.16 must meet all of the criteria in this section.
2. An alternate protein product whether used alone or in combination with meat or other meat alternates must meet the following criteria:
a. The alternate protein product must be processed so that some portion of the non-protein constituents of the food is removed. These alternate protein products must be safe and suitable edible products produced from plant or animal sources.
b. The biological quality of the protein in the alternate protein product must be at least 80 percent that of casein, determined by performing a Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS).
c. The alternate protein product must contain at least 18 percent protein by weight when fully hydrated or formulated. (“When hydrated or formulated” refers to a dry alternate protein product and the amount of water, fat, oil, colors, flavors or any other substances which have been added).
d. Manufacturers supplying an alternate protein product to participating schools or institutions must provide documentation that the product meets the criteria in paragraphs A. 2. a through c of this appendix.
e. Manufacturers should provide information on the percent protein contained in the dry alternate protein product and on an as prepared basis.
f. For an alternate protein product mix, manufacturers should provide information on:
(1) The amount by weight of dry alternate protein product in the package;
(2) Hydration instructions; and
(3) Instructions on how to combine the mix with meat or other meat alternates.

# B. How Are Alternate Protein Products Used in the Summer Food Service Program?
1. Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use alternate protein products to fulfill all or part of the meat/meat alternate component discussed in § 225.20.
2. The following terms and conditions apply:
a. The alternate protein product may be used alone or in combination with other food ingredients. Examples of combination items are beef patties, beef crumbles, pizza topping, meat loaf, meat sauce, taco filling, burritos, and tuna salad.
b. Alternate protein products may be used in the dry form (nonhydrated), partially hydrated or fully hydrated form. The moisture content of the fully hydrated alternate protein product (if prepared from a dry concentrated form) must be such that the mixture will have a minimum of 18 percent protein by weight or equivalent amount for the dry or partially hydrated form (based on the level that would be provided if the product were fully hydrated).

# C. How Are Commercially Prepared Products Used in the Summer Food Service Program?
Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use a commercially prepared meat or meat alternate products combined with alternate protein products or use a commercially prepared product that contains only alternate protein products.
[65 FR 12439, Mar. 9, 2000]
Appendix B to Part 225 [Reserved]
Pt. 225, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 225—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program
1. The Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program is a voluntary technical assistance program administered by the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) in conjunction with the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce (USDC) for the Child Nutrition Programs. This program essentially involves the review of a manufacturer's recipe or product formulation to determine the contribution a serving of a commercially prepared product makes toward meal pattern requirements and a review of the CN label statement to ensure its accuracy. CN labeled products must be produced in accordance with all requirements set forth in this rule.
2. Products eligible for CN labels are as follows:
(a) Commercially prepared food products that contribute significantly to the meat/meat alternate component of meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 225.16, and 226.20 and are served in the main dish.
(b) Juice drinks and juice drink products that contain a minimum of 50 percent full strength juice by volume.
3. For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions apply:
(a)
CN label
is a food product label that contains a CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3(b) and (c) below.
(b) The
CN logo
(as shown below) is a distinct border which is used around the edges of a “CN label statement” as defined in paragraph 3(c).
EC17SE91.006
(c) The
CN label statement
includes the following:
(1) The product identification number (assigned by FNS);
(2) The statement of the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 220.8, 225.16, and 226.20. The statement shall identify the contribution of a specific portion of a meat/meat alternate product toward the meat/meat alternate, bread/bread alternate, and/or vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements. For juice drinks and juice drink products the statement shall identify their contribution toward the vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements.
(3) Statement specifying that the use of the CN logo and CN statement was authorized by FNS, and
(4) The approval date.
For example:
EC17SE91.007
(d)
Federal inspection
means inspection of food products by FSIS, AMS or USDC.
4. Food processors or manufacturers may use the CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) under the following terms and conditions:
(a) The CN label must be reviewed and approved at the national level by the Food and Nutrition Service and appropriate USDA or USDC Federal agency responsible for the inspection of the product.
(b) The CN labeled product must be produced under Federal inspection by USDA or USDC. The Federal inspection must be performed in accordance with an approved partial or total quality control program or standards established by the appropriate Federal inspection service.
(c) The CN label statement must be printed as an integral part of the product label along with the product name, ingredient listing, the inspection shield or mark for the appropriate inspection program, the establishment number where appropriate and the manufacturer's or distributor's name and address.
(1) The inspection marking for CN labeled non-meat, non-poultry, and non-seafood products with the exception of juice drinks and juice drink products is established as follows:
EC17SE91.008
(d) Yields for determining the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements must be calculated using the Food Buying Guide for Child Nutrition Programs (Program Aid Number 1331).
5. In the event a company uses the CN logo and CN label statement inappropriately, the company will be directed to discontinue the use of the logo and statement and the matter will be referred to the appropriate agency for action to be taken against the company.
6. Products that bear a CN label statement as set forth in paragraph 3(c) carry a warranty. This means that if a food service authority participating in the child nutrition programs purchases a CN labeled product and uses it in accordance with the manufacturer's directions, the school or institution will not have an audit claim filed against it for the CN labeled product for noncompliance with the meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 220.8, 225.16, and 226.20. If a State or Federal auditor finds that a product that is CN labeled does not actually meet the meal pattern requirements claimed on the label, the auditor will report this finding to FNS. FNS will prepare a report on the findings and send it to the appropriate divisions of FSIS and AMS of the USDA, National Marine Fisheries Service of the USDC, Food and Drug Administration, or the Department of Justice for action against the company. Any or all of the following courses of action may be taken: (a) The company's CN label may be revoked for a specific period of time; (b) The appropriate agency may pursue a misbranding or mislabeling action against the company producing the product; (c) The company's name will be circulated to regional FNS offices; and (d) FNS will require the food service program involved to notify the State agency of the labeling violation.
7. FNS is authorized to issue operational policies, procedures, and instructions for the CN Labeling Program. To apply for a CN label and to obtain additional information on CN label application procedures, write to: CN Labels, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302.
Pt. 226

# PART 226—CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
226.1
General purpose and scope.
226.2
Definitions.
226.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—Assistance to States
226.4
Payments to States and use of funds.
226.5
Donation of commodities.

# Subpart C—State Agency Provisions
226.6
State agency administrative responsibilities.
226.7
State agency responsibilities for financial management.
226.8
Audits.

# Subpart D—Payment Provisions
226.9
Assignment of rates of reimbursement for centers.
226.10
Program payment procedures.
226.11
Program payments for centers.
226.12
Administrative payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.
226.13
Food service payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.
226.14
Claims against institutions.

# Subpart E—Operational Provisions
226.15
Institution provisions.
226.16
Sponsoring organization provisions.
226.17
Child care center provisions.
226.17a
At-risk afterschool care center provisions.
226.18
Day care home provisions.
226.19
Outside-school-hours care center provisions.
226.19a
Adult day care center provisions.
226.20
Requirements for meals.
226.21
Food service management companies.
226.22
Procurement standards.
226.23
Free and reduced-price meals.

# Subpart F—Food Service Equipment Provisions
226.24
Property management requirements.

# Subpart G—Other Provisions
226.25
Other provisions.
226.26
Program information.
226.27
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
Appendix A to Part 226—Alternate Foods for Meals
Appendix B to Part 226 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 226—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program

# Authority:
Secs. 9, 11, 14, 16, and 17, Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1758, 1759a, 1762a, 1765 and 1766).

# Source:
47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 226 appear at 70 FR 43261, July 27, 2005.

# Subpart A—General
§ 226.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces the regulations under which the Secretary of Agriculture will carry out the Child and Adult Care Food Program. Section 17 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, authorizes assistance to States through grants-in-aid and other means to initiate, maintain, and expand nonprofit food service programs for children and adult participants in non-residential institutions which provide care. The Program is intended to provide aid to child and adult participants and family or group day care homes for provision of nutritious foods that contribute to the wellness, healthy growth, and development of young children, and the health and wellness of older adults and chronically impaired persons.
[81 FR 24377, Apr. 25, 2016]
§ 226.2
Definitions.
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Administrative costs
means costs incurred by an institution related to planning, organizing, and managing a food service under the Program, and allowed by the State agency financial management instruction. These administrative costs may include administrative expenses associated with outreach and recruitment of unlicensed family or group day care homes and the allowable licensing-related expenses of such homes.
Administrative review
means the fair hearing provided upon request to:
(a) An institution that has been given notice by the State agency of any action or proposed action that will affect their participation or reimbursement under the Program, in accordance with § 226.6(k);
(b) A principal or individual responsible for an institution's serious deficiency after the responsible principal or responsible individual has been given a notice of intent to disqualify them from the Program; and
(c) A day care home that has been given a notice of proposed termination for cause.
Administrative review official
means the independent and impartial official who conducts the administrative review held in accordance with § 226.6(k).
Adult
means, for the purposes of the collection of the last four digits of social security numbers as a condition of eligibility for free or reduced-price meals, any individual 21 years of age or older.
Adult day care center
means any public or private nonprofit organization or any for-profit center (as defined in this section) which (a) is licensed or approved by Federal, State or local authorities to provide nonresidential adult day care services to functionally impaired adults (as defined in this section) or persons 60 years of age or older in a group setting outside their homes or a group living arrangement on a less than 24-hour basis and (b) provides for such care and services directly or under arrangements made by the agency or organization whereby the agency or organization maintains professional management responsibility for all such services. Such centers shall provide a structured, comprehensive program that provides a variety of health, social and related support services to enrolled adult participants through an individual plan of care.
Adult day care facility
means a licensed or approved adult day care center under the auspices of a sponsoring organization.
Adult participant
means a person enrolled in an adult day care center who is functionally impaired (as defined in this section) or 60 years of age or older.
Advanced payments
means financial assistance made available to an institution for its Program costs prior to the month in which such costs will be incurred.
At-risk afterschool care center
means a public or private nonprofit organization that is participating or is eligible to participate in the CACFP as an institution or as a sponsored facility and that provides nonresidential child care to children after school through an approved afterschool care program located in an eligible area. However, an
Emergency shelter,
as defined in this section, may participate as an at-risk afterschool care center without regard to location.
At-risk afterschool meal
means a meal that meets the requirements described in § 226.20(b)(6) and/or (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3), that is reimbursed at the appropriate free rate and is served by an
At-risk afterschool care center
as defined in this section, which is located in a State designated by law or selected by the Secretary as directed by law.
At-risk afterschool snack
means a snack that meets the requirements described in § 226.20(b)(6) and/or (c)(4) that is reimbursed at the free rate for snacks and is served by an
At-risk afterschool care center
as defined in this section.
CACFP child care standards
means the Child and Adult Care Food Program child care standards developed by the Department for alternate approval of child care centers, and day care homes by the State agency under the provisions of § 226.6(d)(3) and (4).
Center
means a child care center, at-risk afterschool care center, an adult day care center, an emergency shelter, or an outside-school-hours care center.
Child care center
means any public or private nonprofit institution or facility (except day care homes), or any for-profit center, as defined in this section, that is licensed or approved to provide nonresidential child care services to enrolled children, primarily of preschool age, including but not limited to day care centers, settlement houses, neighborhood centers, Head Start centers and organizations providing day care services for children with disabilities. Child care centers may participate in the Program as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization.
Child care facility
means a licensed or approved child care center, at-risk afterschool care center, day care home, emergency shelter, or outside-school-hours care center under the auspices of a sponsoring organization.
Children
means:
(a) Persons age 12 and under;
(b) Persons age 15 and under who are children of migrant workers;
(c)
Persons with disabilities
as defined in this section;
(d) For emergency shelters, persons age 18 and under; and
(e) For at-risk afterschool care centers, persons age 18 and under at the start of the school year.
Claiming percentage
means the ratio of the number of enrolled participants in an institution in each reimbursement category (free, reduced-price or paid) to the total of enrolled participants in the institution. In the case of an outside-school-hours care center that is not required to collect enrollment forms from each participating child, a claiming percentage is the ratio of the number of children in each reimbursement category (free, reduced-price or paid) to the total number of children participating in the program in that center.
Current income
means income received during the month prior to application for free or reduced-price meals. If such income does not accurately reflect the household's annual income, income shall be based on the projected annual household income. If the prior year's income provides an accurate reflection of the household's current annual income, the prior year may be used as a base for the projected annual income.
Day care home
means an organized nonresidential child care program for children enrolled in a private home, licensed or approved as a family or group day care home and under the auspices of a sponsoring organization.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disclosure
means reveal or use individual children's program eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal eligibility process for a purpose other than for the purpose for which the information was obtained. The term refers to access, release, or transfer of personal data about children by means of print, tape, microfilm, microfiche, electronic communication or any other means.
Disqualified
means the status of an institution, a responsible principal or responsible individual, or a day care home that is ineligible for participation.
Documentation
means:
(a) The completion of the following information on a free and reduced-price application:
(1) Names of all household members;
(2) Income received by each household member, identified by source of income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security and other cash income);
(3) The signature of an adult household member; and
(4) The last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application, or an indication that the adult does not possess a social security number; or
(b) For a child who is a member of a SNAP or FDPIR household or who is a TANF recipient, “documentation” means the completion of only the following information on a free and reduced price application:
(1) The name(s) and appropriate SNAP, FDPIR or TANF case number(s) for the child(ren); and
(2) The signature of an adult member of the household; or
(c) For a child in a tier II day care home who is a member of a household participating in a Federally or State supported child care or other benefit program with an income eligibility limit that does not exceed the eligibility standard for free or reduced price meals:
(1) The name(s), appropriate case number(s) (if the program utilizes case numbers), and name(s) of the qualifying program(s) for the child(ren), and the signature of an adult member of the household; or
(2) If the sponsoring organization or day care home possesses it, official evidence of the household's participation in a qualifying program (submission of a free and reduced price application by the household is not required in this case); or
(d) For an adult participant who is a member of a SNAP or FDPIR household or is an SSI or Medicaid participant, as defined in this section, “documentation” means the completion of only the following information on a free and reduced price application:
(1) The name(s) and appropriate SNAP or FDPIR case number(s) for the
participant(s) or the adult participant's SSI or Medicaid identification number, as defined in this section; and
(2) The signature of an adult member of the household; or
(e) For a child who is a Head Start participant, the Head Start statement of income eligibility issued upon initial enrollment in the Head Start Program or, if such statement is unavailable, other documentation from Head Start officials that the child's family meets the Head Start Program's low-income criteria.
Eligible area
means:
(a) For the purpose of determining the eligibility of at-risk afterschool care centers, the attendance area of a school in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children are certified eligible for free or reduced-price school meals; or
(b) For the purpose of determining the tiering status of day care homes, the attendance area of a school in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children are certified eligible for free or reduced-price meals, or the area based on the most recent census data in which at least 50 percent of the children residing in the area are members of households that meet the income standards for free or reduced-price meals.
Emergency shelter
means a public or private nonprofit organization or its site that provides temporary shelter and food services to homeless children, including a residential child care institution (RCCI) that serves a distinct group of homeless children who are not enrolled in the RCCI's regular program.
Enrolled child
means a child whose parent or guardian has submitted to an institution a signed document which indicates that the child is enrolled for child care. In addition, for the purposes of calculations made by sponsoring organizations of family day care homes in accordance with §§ 226.13(d)(3)(ii) and 226.13(d)(3)(iii), “enrolled child” (or “child in attendance”) means a child whose parent or guardian has submitted a signed document which indicates that the child is enrolled for child care; who is present in the day care home for the purpose of child care; and who has eaten at least one meal during the claiming period. For at-risk afterschool care centers, outside-school-hours care centers, or emergency shelters, the term “enrolled child” or “enrolled participant” does not apply.
Enrolled participant
means an “Enrolled child” (as defined in this section) or “Adult participant” (as defined in this section).
Expansion payments
means financial assistance made available to a sponsoring organization for its administrative expenses associated with expanding a food service program to day care homes located in low-income or rural areas. These expansion payments may include administrative expenses associated with outreach and recruitment of unlicensed family or group day care homes and the allowable licensing-related expenses of such homes.
Facility
means a sponsored center or a day care home.
Family
means, in the case of children, a group of related or nonrelated individuals, who are not residents of an institution or boarding house, but who are living as one economic unit or, in the case of adult participants, the adult participant, and if residing with the adult participant, the spouse and dependent(s) of the adult participant.
FDPIR household
means any individual or group of individuals which is currently certified to receive assistance as a household under the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.
Fiscal Year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any year and ending with September 30 of the following year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
FNSRO
means the appropriate Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service.
Food service equipment assistance
means Federal financial assistance formerly made available to State agencies to assist institutions in the purchase or rental of equipment to enable institutions to establish, maintain or expand food service under the Program.
Food service management company
means an organization other than a public or private nonprofit school, with which an institution may contract for
preparing and, unless otherwise provided for, delivering meals, with or without milk for use in the Program.
For-profit center
means a child care center, outside-school-hours care center, or adult day care center providing nonresidential care to adults or children that does not qualify for tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. For-profit centers serving adults must meet the criteria described in paragraph (a) of this definition. For-profit centers serving children must meet the criteria described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this definition, except that children who only participate in the at-risk afterschool snack and/or meal component of the Program must not be considered in determining the percentages under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this definition.
(a) A for-profit center serving adults must meet the definition of
Adult day care center
as defined in this section and, during the calendar month preceding initial application or reapplication, the center receives compensation from amounts granted to the States under title XIX or title XX and twenty-five percent of the adults enrolled in care are beneficiaries of title XIX, title XX, or a combination of titles XIX and XX of the Social Security Act.
(b) A for-profit center serving children must meet the definition of
Child care center
or
Outside-school-hours care center
as defined in this section and one of the following conditions during the calendar month preceding initial application or reapplication:
(1) Twenty-five percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) are eligible for free or reduced-price meals; or
(2) Twenty-five percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) receive benefits from title XX of the Social Security Act and the center receives compensation from amounts granted to the States under title XX.
Foster child
means a child who is formally placed by a court or a State child welfare agency, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
Free meal
means a meal served under the Program to:
(a) A participant from a family which meets the income standards for free school meals, or
(b) A foster child, or
(c) A child who is automatically eligible for free meals by virtue of SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits, or
(d) A child who is a Head Start participant, or
(e) A child who is receiving temporary housing and meal services from an approved emergency shelter, or
(f) A child participating in an approved at-risk afterschool care program, or
(g) An adult participant who is automatically eligible for free meals by virtue of SNAP or FDPIR benefits, or
(h) An adult who is an SSI or Medicaid participant.
Functionally impaired adult
means chronically impaired disabled persons 18 years of age or older, including persons with neurological and organic brain dysfunction, with physical or mental impairments to the extent that their capacity for independence and their ability to carry out activities of daily living is markedly limited. Activities of daily living include, but are not limited to, adaptive activities such as cleaning, shopping, cooking, taking public transportation, maintaining a residence, caring appropriately for one's grooming or hygiene, using a telephone, or using a post office. Marked limitations refer to the severity of impairment, and not the number of limited activities, and occur when the degree of limitation is such as to seriously interfere with the ability to function independently.
Group living arrangement
means residential communities which may or may not be subsidized by federal, State or local funds but which are private residences housing an individual or a group of individuals who are primarily responsible for their own care and who maintain a presence in the community but who may receive on-site monitoring.
Head Start participant
means a child currently receiving assistance under a Federally-funded Head Start Program who is categorically eligible for free meals in the CACFP by virtue of meeting Head Start's low-income criteria.
Household
means “family”, as defined in § 226.2 (“Family”).
Household contact
means a contact made by a sponsoring organization or a State agency to an adult member of a household with a child in a family day care home or a child care center in order to verify the attendance and enrollment of the child and the specific meal service(s) which the child routinely receives while in care.
Income standards
means the family-size and income standards prescribed annually by the Secretary for determining eligibility for free and reduced-price meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program.
Income to the program
means any funds used in an institution's food service program, including, but not limited to all monies, other than Program payments, received from other Federal, State, intermediate, or local government sources; participant's payments for meals and food service fees; income from any food sales to adults; and other income, including cash donations or grants from organizations or individuals.
Independent center
means a child care center, at-risk afterschool care center, emergency shelter, outside-school-hours care center or adult day care center which enters into an agreement with the State agency to assume final administrative and financial responsibility for Program operations.
Independent governing board of directors
means, in the case of a nonprofit organization, or in the case of a for-profit institution required to have a board of directors, a governing board which meets regularly and has the authority to hire and fire the institution's executive director.
Infant cereal
means any iron-fortified dry cereal specially formulated for and generally recognized as cereal for infants that is routinely mixed with breast milk or iron-fortified infant formula prior to consumption.
Infant formula
means any iron-fortified formula intended for dietary use solely as a food for normal, healthy infants; excluding those formulas specifically formulated for infants with inborn errors of metabolism or digestive or absorptive problems. Infant formula, as served, must be in liquid state at recommended dilution.
Institution
means a sponsoring organization, child care center, at-risk afterschool care center, outside-school-hours care center, emergency shelter or adult day care center which enters into an agreement with the State agency to assume final administrative and financial responsibility for Program operations.
Internal controls
means the policies, procedures, and organizational structure of an institution designed to reasonably assure that:
(a) The Program achieves its intended result;
(b) Program resources are used in a manner that protects against fraud, abuse, and mismanagement and in accordance with law, regulations, and guidance; and
(c) Timely and reliable Program information is obtained, maintained, reported, and used for decision-making.
Key Element Reporting System
(KERS) means a comprehensive national system for reporting critical key element performance data on the operation of the program in institutions.
Low-income area
means a geographical area in which at least 50 percent of the children are eligible for free or reduced price school meals under the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program, as determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c), definition of tier I day care home.
Meal component
meals means one of the food groups which comprise reimbursable meals. The meal components are: fruits, vegetables, grains, meats/meat alternates, and fluid milk.
Meals
means food which is served to enrolled participants at an institution, child care facility or adult day care facility and which meets the nutritional requirements set forth in this part. However, children participating in at-risk afterschool care centers, emergency shelters, or outside-schools-hours care centers do not have to be enrolled.
Medicaid
means
Title XIX
of the Social Security Act.
Medicaid participant
means an adult participant who receives assistance under title XIX of the Social Security
Act, the Grant to States for Medical Assistance Programs—Medicaid.
Milk
means pasteurized fluid types of unflavored or flavored whole milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, or cultured buttermilk which meet State and local standards for such milk, except that, in the meal pattern for infants (0 to 1 year of age), milk means breast milk or iron-fortified infant formula. In Alaska, Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands if a sufficient supply of such types of fluid milk cannot be obtained, “milk” shall include reconstituted or recombined milk. All milk should contain vitamins A and D at levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration and be consistent with State and local standards for such milk.
National disqualified list
means the list, maintained by the Department, of institutions, responsible principals and responsible individuals, and day care homes disqualified from participation in the Program.
New institution
means a sponsoring organization or an independent center making an application to participate in the Program or applying to participate in the Program after a lapse in participation.
Nonpricing program
means an institution, child care facility, or adult day care facility in which there is no separate identifiable charge made for meals served to participants.
Nonprofit food service
means all food service operations conducted by the institution principally for the benefit of enrolled participants, from which all of the Program reimbursement funds are used solely for the operations or improvement of such food service.
Nonresidential
means that the same participants are not maintained in care for more than 24 hours on a regular basis.
Notice
means a letter sent by certified mail, return receipt (or the equivalent private delivery service), by facsimile, or by email, that describes an action proposed or taken by a State agency or FNS with regard to an institution's Program reimbursement or participation. Notice also means a letter sent by certified mail, return receipt (or the equivalent private delivery service), by facsimile, or by email, that describes an action proposed or taken by a sponsoring organization with regard to a day care home's participation. The notice must specify the action being proposed or taken and the basis for the action, and is considered to be received by the institution or day care home when it is delivered, sent by facsimile, or sent by email. If the notice is undeliverable, it is considered to be received by the institution, responsible principal or responsible individual, or day care home five days after being sent to the addressee's last known mailing address, facsimile number, or email address.
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
Operating costs
means expenses incurred by an institution in serving meals to participants under the Program, and allowed by the State agency financial management instruction.
Outside-school-hours care center
means a public or private nonprofit institution or facility (except day care homes), or a
For-profit center
as defined in this section, that is licensed or approved in accordance with § 226.6(d)(1) to provide organized nonresidential child care services to children during hours outside of school. Outside-school-hours care centers may participate in the Program as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization.
Participants
means “Children” or “Adult participants” as defined in this section.
Participating institution
means a sponsoring organization or an independent center, including a renewing institution, that holds a current agreement with the State agency to operate the Program.
Personal property
means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible—having physical existence—or intangible—having no physical existence such as patents, inventions, and copyrights.
Persons with disabilities
means persons of any age who have a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, have a record of such an impairment, or have been regarded as having such
an impairment, and who are enrolled in an institution or child care facility serving a majority of persons who are age 18 and under.
Pricing program
means an institution, child care facility, or adult day care facility in which a separate identifiable charge is made for meals served to participants.
Principal
means any individual who holds a management position within, or is an officer of, an institution or a sponsored center, including all members of the institution's board of directors or the sponsored center's board of directors.
Program
means the Child and Adult Care Food Program authorized by section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Program payments
means financial assistance in the form of start-up payments, expansion payments, advance payments, or reimbursement paid or payable to institutions for operating costs and administrative costs.
Reduced-price meal
means a meal served under the Program to a participant from a family that meets the income standards for reduced-price school meals. Any separate charge imposed must be less than the full price of the meal, but in no case more than 40 cents for a lunch or supper, 30 cents for a breakfast, and 15 cents for a snack. Neither the participant nor any member of his family may be required to work in the food service program for a reduced-price meal.
Reimbursement
means Federal financial assistance paid or payable to institutions for Program costs within the rates assigned by the State agency.
Renewing institution
means a sponsoring organization or an independent center that is participating in the Program at the time it submits annual renewal information.
Responsible principal or responsible individual
means:
(a) A principal, whether compensated or uncompensated, who the State agency or FNS determines to be responsible for an institution's serious deficiency;
(b) Any other individual employed by, or under contract with, an institution or sponsored center, who the State agency or FNS determines to be responsible for an institution's serious deficiency; or
(c) An uncompensated individual who the State agency or FNS determines to be responsible for an institution's serious deficiency.
Rural area
means any geographical area in a county which is not a part of a Metropolitan Statistical Area or any “pocket” within a Metropolitan Statistical Area which, at the option of the State agency and with FNSRO concurrence, is determined to be geographically isolated from urban areas.
SSI participant
means an adult participant who receives assistance under title XVI of the Social Security Act, the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) for the Aged, Blind and Disabled Program.
School year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning July 1 of any year and ending June 30 of the following year.
Seriously deficient
means the status of an institution or a day care home that has been determined to be non-compliant in one or more aspects of its operation of the Program.
Snack
means a meal supplement that meets the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20(b)(6) or (c)(4).
SNAP household
means any individual or group of individuals which is currently certified to receive assistances as a household from
SNAP,
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.
Sponsored center
means a child care center, an at-risk afterschool care center, an adult day care center, an emergency shelter, or an outside-school-hours care center that operates the Program under the auspices of a sponsoring organization. The two types of sponsored centers are as follows:
(1) An affiliated center is a part of the same legal entity as the CACFP sponsoring organization; or
(2) An unaffiliated center is legally distinct from the sponsoring organization.
Sponsoring organization
means a public or nonprofit private organization that is entirely responsible for the administration of the food program in:
(1) One or more day care homes;
(2) A child care center, emergency shelter, at-risk afterschool care center,
outside-school-hours care center, or adult day care center which is a legally distinct entity from the sponsoring organization;
(3) Two or more child care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, outside-school-hours care center, or adult day care centers; or
(4) Any combination of child care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, outside-school-hours care centers, adult day care centers, and day care homes.
The term “sponsoring organization” also includes an organization that is entirely responsible for administration of the Program in any combination of two or more child care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, adult day care centers or outside-school-hours care centers, which meet the definition of
For-profit center
in this section and are part of the same legal entity as the sponsoring organization.
Start-up payments
means financial assistance made available to a sponsoring organization for its administrative expenses associated with developing or expanding a food service program in day care homes and initiating successful Program operations. These start-up payments may include administrative expenses associated with outreach and recruitment of unlicensed family or group day care homes and the allowable licensing-related expenses of such homes.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency
means the State educational agency or any other State agency that has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive, or by the legislative authority of the State, and has been approved by the Department to administer the Program within the State or in States in which FNS administers the Program, FNSRO. This also may include a State agency other than the existing CACFP State Agency, when such agency is designated by the Governor of the State to administer only the adult day care component of the CACFP.
State agency list
means an actual paper or electronic list, or the retrievable paper records, maintained by the State agency, that includes a synopsis of information concerning seriously deficient institutions and providers terminated for cause in that State. The list must be made available to FNS upon request, and must include the following information:
(a) Institutions determined to be seriously deficient by the State agency, including the names and mailing addresses of the institutions, the basis for each serious deficiency determination, and the status of the institutions as they move through the possible subsequent stages of corrective action, proposed termination, suspension, agreement termination, and/or disqualification, as applicable;
(b) Responsible principals and responsible individuals who have been disqualified from participation by the State agency, including their names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth; and
(c) Day care home providers whose agreements have been terminated for cause by a sponsoring organization in the State, including their names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth.
State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)
means the State medical assistance program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
).
State licensed healthcare professional
means an individual who is authorized to write medical prescriptions under State law. This may include, but is not limited to, a licensed physician, nurse practitioner, or physician's assistant, depending on State law.
Suspended
means the status of an institution or day care home that is temporarily ineligible for participation (including Program payments).
Suspension review
means the review provided, upon the institution's request, to an institution that has been given a notice of intent to suspend participation (including Program payments), based on a determination that the institution has knowingly submitted a false or fraudulent claim.
Suspension review official
means the independent and impartial official who conducts the suspension review.
Termination for cause
means the termination of a day care home's Program agreement by the sponsoring organization due to the day care home's violation of the agreement.
TANF recipient
means an individual or household receiving assistance (as defined in 45 CFR 260.31) under a State-administered Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program.
Termination for convenience
means termination of a Program agreement due to considerations unrelated to either party's performance of Program responsibilities under the agreement between:
(1) A State agency and the independent center,
(2) A State agency and the sponsoring organization,
(3) A sponsoring organization and the unaffiliated center, or
(4) A sponsoring organization and the day care home.
Tier I day care home
means (a) a day care home that is operated by a provider whose household meets the income standards for free or reduced-price meals, as determined by the sponsoring organization based on a completed free and reduced price application, and whose income is verified by the sponsoring organization of the home in accordance with § 226.23(h)(6);
(b) A day care home that is located in an area served by a school enrolling students in which at least 50 percent of the total number of children enrolled are certified eligible to receive free or reduced price meals; or
(c) A day care home that is located in a geographic area, as defined by FNS based on census data, in which at least 50 percent of the children residing in the area are members of households which meet the income standards for free or reduced price meals.
Tier II day care home
means a day care home that does not meet the criteria for a
Tier I day care home.
Title XVI
means Title XVI of the Social Security Act which authorizes the Supplemental Security Income for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled Program—SSI.
Title XIX
means Title XIX of the Social Security Act which authorizes the Grants to States for Medical Assistance Programs—Medicaid.
Title XX
means Title XX of the Social Security Act.
Tofu
means a commercially prepared soy-bean derived food, made by a process in which soybeans are soaked, ground, mixed with water, heated, filtered, coagulated, and formed into cakes. Basic ingredients are whole soybeans, one or more food-grade coagulates (typically a salt or acid), and water.
Unannounced review
means an on-site review for which no prior notification is given to the facility or institution.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Verification
means a review of the information reported by institutions to the State agency regarding the eligibility of participants for free or reduced-price meals, and, in addition, for a pricing program, confirmation of eligibility for free or reduced-price benefits under the program. Verification for a pricing program shall include confirmation of income eligibility and, at State discretion, any other information required on the application which is defined as documentation in § 226.2. Such verification may be accomplished by examining information (e.g., wage stubs, etc.) provided by the household or other sources of information as specified in § 226.23(h)(2)(iv). However, if a SNAP, FDPIR or TANF case number is provided for a child, verification for such child shall include only confirmation that the child is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is a TANF recipient. If a Head Start statement of income eligibility is provided for a child, verification for such child shall include only confirmation that the child is a Head Start participant. For an adult participant, if a SNAP or FDPIR case number or SSI or Medicaid assistance identification number is provided, verification for such participant shall include only
confirmation that the participant is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is a current SSI or Medicaid participant.
Whole grain-rich
is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched.
Whole grains
means foods that consist of intact, ground, cracked, or flaked grain seed whose principal anatomical components—the starchy endosperm, germ, and bran—are present in the same relative proportions as they exist in the intact grain seed.
Yogurt
means commercially coagulated milk products obtained by the fermentation of specific bacteria, that meet milk fat or milk solid requirements to which flavoring foods or ingredients may be added. These products are covered by the Food and Drug Administration's Standard of Identity for yogurt, lowfat yogurt, and nonfat yogurt, (21 CFR 131.200), (21 CFR 131.203), (21 CFR 131.206), respectively.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982; 47 FR 46072, Oct. 15, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 226.3
Administration.
(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program.
(b) Within the States, responsibility for the administration of the Program shall be in the State agency, except that if FNS has continuously administered the Program in any State since October 1, 1980, FNS shall continue to administer the Program in that State. A State in which FNS administers the Program may, upon request to FNS, assume administration of the Program.
(c) Each State agency desiring to take part in the Program shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in the State in accordance with the provisions of this part. This agreement shall cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended by consent of both parties.
(d) FNSRO shall, in each State in which it administers the Program, have available all funds and assume all responsibilities of a State agency as set forth in this part.
(e)(1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.
(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.
(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.
(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:
(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,
(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to
regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.
(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 87 FR 57366, Sept. 19, 2022]

# Subpart B—Assistance to States
§ 226.4
Payments to States and use of funds.
(a)
Availability of funds.
For each fiscal year based on funds provided to the Department, FNS must make funds available to each State agency to reimburse institutions for their costs in connection with food service operations, including administrative expenses, under this part. Funds must be made available in an amount no less than the sum of the totals obtained under paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (j) of this section. However, in any fiscal year, the aggregate amount of assistance provided to a State under this part must not exceed the sum of the Federal funds provided by the State to participating institutions within the State for that fiscal year and any funds used by the State under paragraphs (j) and (l) of this section.
(b)
Center funds.
For meals served to participants in child care centers, adult day care centers and outside-school-hours care centers, funds shall be made available to each State agency in an amount no less than the sum of the products obtained by multiplying:
(1) The number of breakfasts served in the Program within the State to participants from families that do not satisfy the eligibility standards for free and reduced-price school meals enrolled in institutions by the national average payment rate for breakfasts for such participants under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966;
(2) The number of breakfasts served in the Program within the State to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standards for free school meals enrolled in institutions by the national average payment rate for free breakfasts under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966;
(3) The number of breakfasts served to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standard for reduced-price school meals enrolled in institutions by the national average payment rate for reduced-price school breakfasts under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966;
(4) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State by the national average payment rate for lunches under section 4 of the National School Lunch Act. (All lunches and suppers served in the State are funded under this provision);
(5) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standard for free school meals enrolled in institutions by the national average payment rate for free lunches under section 11 of the National School Lunch Act;
(6) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standard for reduced-price school meals enrolled in institutions by the national average payment rate for reduced-price lunches under section 11 of the National School Lunch Act;
(7) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to participants from families that do not satisfy the eligibility standards for free and reduced-price school meals enrolled in institutions by 2.75 cents;
(8) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standard for free school meals enrolled in institutions by 30 cents;
(9) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to participants from families that satisfy the eligibility standard for reduced-price school meals enrolled in institutions by 15 cents.
(c)
Emergency shelter funds.
For meals and snacks served to children in emergency shelters, funds will be made available to each State agency in an amount equal to the total calculated by multiplying the number of meals
and snacks served in the Program within the State to such children by the national average payment rate for free meals and free snacks under section 11 of the National School Lunch Act.
(d)
At-risk afterschool care center funds.
For snacks served to children in at-risk afterschool care centers, funds will be made available to each State agency in an amount equal to the total calculated by multiplying the number of snacks served in the Program within the State to such children by the national average payment rate for free snacks under section 11 of the National School Lunch Act. For at-risk afterschool meals and at-risk afterschool snacks served to children, funds will be made available to each eligible State agency in an amount equal to the total calculated by multiplying the number of at-risk afterschool meals and the number of at-risk afterschool snacks served in the Program within the State by the national average payment rate for free meals and free snacks, respectively, under section 11 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
(e)
Day care home funds.
For meals served to children in day care homes, funds shall be made available to each State agency in an amount no less than the sum of products obtained by multiplying:
(1) The number of breakfasts served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier I day care homes by the current tier I day care home rate for breakfasts;
(2) The number of breakfasts served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that have been determined eligible for free or reduced price meals by the current tier I day care home rate for breakfasts;
(3) The number of breakfasts served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that do not satisfy the eligibility standards for free or reduced price meals, or to children from whose households applications were not collected, by the current tier II day care home rate for breakfasts;
(4) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier I day care homes by the current tier I day care home rate for lunches/suppers;
(5) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that have been determined eligible for free or reduced price meals by the current tier I day care home rate for lunches/suppers;
(6) The number of lunches and suppers served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that do not satisfy the eligibility standards for free or reduced price meals, or to children from whose households applications were not collected, by the current tier II day care home rate for lunches/suppers;
(7) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier I day care homes by the current tier I day care home rate for snacks;
(8) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that have been determined eligible for free or reduced price meals by the current tier I day care home rate for snacks; and
(9) The number of snacks served in the Program within the State to children enrolled in tier II day care homes that do not satisfy the eligibility standards for free or reduced price meals, or to children from whose households applications were not collected, by the current tier II day care home rate for snacks.
(f)
Administrative funds.
For administrative payments to day care home sponsoring organizations, funds shall be made available to each State agency in an amount not less than the product obtained each month by multiplying the number of day care homes participating under each sponsoring organization within the State by the applicable rates specified in § 226.12(a)(3).
(g)
Start-up and expansion funds.
For start-up and expansion payments to eligible sponsoring organizations, funds shall be made available to each State agency in an amount equal to the total amount of start-up and expansion payments made in the most recent period for which reports are available for that State or on the basis of estimates by FNS.
(h)
Funding assurance.
FNS shall ensure that, to the extent funds are appropriated, each State has sufficient Program funds available for providing start-up, expansion and advance payments in accordance with this part.
(i)
Rate adjustments.
FNS shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
to announce each rate adjustment. FNS shall adjust the following rates on the specified dates:
(1) The rates for meals, including snacks, served in tier I and tier II day care homes shall be adjusted annually, on July 1 (beginning July 1, 1997), on the basis of changes in the series for food at home of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustments shall be rounded to the nearest lower cent based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available. The adjustments shall be computed using the unrounded rate in effect for the preceding school year.
(2) The rates for meals, including snacks, served in child care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, adult day care centers and outside-school-hours care centers will be adjusted annually, on July 1, on the basis of changes in the series for food away from home of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustment must be rounded to the nearest lower cent, based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available. The adjustment to the rates must be computed using the unrounded rate in effect for the preceding year.
(3) The rate for administrative payments to day care home sponsoring organizations shall be adjusted annually, on July 1, on the basis of changes in the series for all items of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor. Such adjustments shall be made to the nearest dollar based on changes measured over the most recent twelve-month period for which data are available.
(j)
Audit funds.
(1) Funds are available to each State agency in an amount equal to 1.5 percent of the Program funds used by the State during the second fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which these funds are to be made available. These funds are for the expense of conducting audits under § 226.8 and Program monitoring under § 226.6(m).
(2) State agencies may request an increase in the amount of funds made available under this paragraph.
(i) FNS approval for increased funding will be based on the State agency's expressed need for an increase in resources to meet audit requirements, fulfill monitoring requirements, or effectively improve Program management.
(ii) The total amount of audit funds made available to any State agency under this paragraph may not exceed 2 percent of Program funds used by the State during the second fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the funds are made available.
(iii) The amount of assistance provided to a State agency under this paragraph in any fiscal year may not exceed the State's expenditures under §§ 226.6(m) and 226.8 during the fiscal year in which the funds are made available.
(k)
Method of funding.
FNS shall authorize funds for State agencies in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(l)
Special developmental projects.
The State agency may use in carrying out special developmental projects an amount not to exceed one percent of Program funds used in the second prior fiscal year. Special developmental projects shall conform to FNS guidance and be approved in writing by FNS.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 36906, Oct. 2, 1987; 53 FR 52588, Dec. 28, 1988; 62 FR 902, Jan. 7, 1997; 63 FR 9728, Feb. 26, 1998; 69 FR 53536, Sept. 1, 2004; 71 FR 4, Jan. 3, 2006; 71 FR 39518, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 41603, 41604, July 31, 2007; 75 FR 16327, Apr. 1, 2010; 76 FR 34569, June 13, 2011; 78 FR 13451, Feb. 28, 2013; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57851, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.5
Donation of commodities.
(a) USDA foods available under section 6 of this Act, section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431) or purchased under section 32 of the Act
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 1431), section 709 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1965 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), or other authority, and donated by the Department shall be made available to each State.
(b) The value of such commodities donated to each State for each school year shall be, at a minimum, the amount obtained by multiplying the number of reimbursable lunches and suppers served in participating institutions in that State during the preceding school year by the rate for commodities established under section 6(e) of the Act for the current school year. Adjustments shall be made at the end of each school year to reflect the difference between the number of reimbursable lunches and suppers served during the preceding year and the number served during the current year, and subsequent commodity entitlement shall be based on the adjusted meal counts. At the discretion of FNS, current-year adjustments may be made for significant variations in the number of reimbursable meals served. Such current-year adjustments will not be routine and will only be made for unusual problems encountered in a State, such as a disaster that necessitates institutional closures for a prolonged period of time. CACFP State agencies electing to receive cash-in-lieu of commodities will receive payments based on the number of reimbursable meals actually served during the current school year.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 23618, May 1, 1997]

# Subpart C—State Agency Provisions
§ 226.6
State agency administrative responsibilities.
(a)
State agency personnel.
Each State agency must provide sufficient consultative, technical, and managerial personnel to:
(1) Administer the Program;
(2) Provide sufficient training and technical assistance to institutions;
(3) Monitor Program performance;
(4) Facilitate expansion of the Program in low-income and rural areas; and
(5) Ensure effective operation of the Program by participating institutions.
(b)
Program applications and agreements.
Each State agency must establish application review procedures, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to determine the eligibility of new institutions and facilities for which applications are submitted by sponsoring organizations. Each State agency must establish procedures for the review of renewal information, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, to determine the continued eligibility of renewing institutions. The State agency must enter into written agreements with institutions, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(1)
Application procedures for new institutions.
Each State agency must establish application procedures to determine the eligibility of new institutions under this part. At a minimum, such procedures must require that institutions submit information to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. For new private nonprofit and proprietary child care institutions, such procedures must also include a pre-approval visit by the State agency to confirm the information in the institution's application and to further assess its ability to manage the Program. The State agency must establish factors, consistent with § 226.16(b)(1), that it will consider in determining whether a new sponsoring organization has sufficient staff to perform required monitoring responsibilities at all of its sponsored facilities. As part of the review of the sponsoring organization's management plan, the State agency must determine the appropriate level of staffing for each sponsoring organization, consistent with the staffing range of monitors set forth at § 226.16(b)(1) and the factors it has established. The State agency must ensure that each new sponsoring organization applying for participation after July 29, 2002 meets this requirement. In addition, the State agency's application review procedures must ensure that the following information is included in a new institution's application:
(i)
Participant eligibility information.
Centers must submit current information on the number of enrolled participants who are eligible for free, reduced-price and paid meals;
(ii)
Enrollment information.
Sponsoring organizations of day care homes must submit current information on:
(A) The total number of children enrolled in all homes in the sponsorship;
(B) An assurance that day care home providers' own children whose meals are claimed for reimbursement in the Program are eligible for free or reduced-price meals;
(C) The total number of tier I and tier II day care homes that it sponsors;
(D) The total number of children enrolled in tier I day care homes;
(E) The total number of children enrolled in tier II day care homes; and
(F) The total number of children in tier II day care homes that have been identified as eligible for free or reduced-price meals;
(iii)
Nondiscrimination statement.
Institutions must submit their nondiscrimination policy statement and a media release, unless the State agency has issued a Statewide media release on behalf of all institutions;
(iv)
Management plan.
Sponsoring organizations must submit a complete management plan that includes:
(A) Detailed information on the organization's management and administrative structure;
(B) A list or description of the staff assigned to Program monitoring, in accordance with the requirements set forth at § 226.16(b)(1);
(C) An administrative budget that includes projected CACFP administrative earnings and expenses;
(D) The procedures to be used by the organization to administer the Program in, and disburse payments to, the child care facilities under its sponsorship; and
(E) For sponsoring organizations of family day care homes, a description of the system for making tier I day care home determinations, and a description of the system of notifying tier II day care homes of their options for reimbursement;
(v)
Budget.
An institution must submit a budget that the State agency must review in accordance with § 226.7(g);
(vi)
Documentation of licensing/approval.
All centers and family day care homes must document that they meet Program licensing/approval requirements;
(vii)
Documentation of tax-exempt status.
All private nonprofit institutions must document their tax-exempt status;
(viii)
At-risk afterschool care centers.
Institutions (independent at-risk afterschool care centers and sponsoring organizations of at-risk afterschool care centers) must submit documentation sufficient to determine that each at-risk afterschool care center meets the program eligibility requirements in § 226.17a(a), and sponsoring organizations must submit documentation that each sponsored at-risk afterschool care center meets the area eligibility requirements in § 226.17a(i).
(ix)
Documentation of for-profit center eligibility.
Institutions must document that each for-profit center for which application is made meets the definition of a
For-profit center
, as set forth at § 226.2;
(x)
Preference for commodities/cash-in-lieu of commodities.
Institutions must state their preference to receive commodities or cash-in-lieu of commodities;
(xi)
Providing benefits to unserved facilities or participants
—(A)
Criteria.
The State agency must develop criteria for determining whether a new sponsoring organization's participation will help ensure the delivery of benefits to otherwise unserved facilities or participants, and must disseminate these criteria to new sponsoring organizations when they request information about applying to the Program; and
(B)
Documentation.
The new sponsoring organization must submit documentation that its participation will help ensure the delivery of benefits to otherwise unserved facilities or participants in accordance with the State agency's criteria;
(xii)
Presence on the National disqualified list.
If an institution or one of its principals is on the National disqualified list and submits an application, the State agency may not approve the
application. If a sponsoring organization submits an application on behalf of a facility, and either the facility or any of its principals is on the National disqualified list, the State agency may not approve the application. In accordance with paragraph (k)(3)(vii) of this section, in this circumstance, the State agency's refusal to consider the application is not subject to administrative review.
(xiii)
Ineligibility for other publicly funded programs
—(A)
General.
A State agency is prohibited from approving an institution's application if, during the past seven years, the institution or any of its principals have been declared ineligible for any other publicly funded program by reason of violating that program's requirements. However, this prohibition does not apply if the institution or the principal has been fully reinstated in, or determined eligible for, that program, including the payment of any debts owed;
(B)
Certification.
Institutions must submit:
(
1
) A statement listing the publicly funded programs in which the institution and its principals have participated in the past seven years; and
(
2
) A certification that, during the past seven years, neither the institution nor any of its principals have been declared ineligible to participate in any other publicly funded program by reason of violating that program's requirements; or
(
3
) In lieu of the certification, documentation that the institution or the principal previously declared ineligible was later fully reinstated in, or determined eligible for, the program, including the payment of any debts owed; and
(C)
Follow-up.
If the State agency has reason to believe that the institution or its principals were determined ineligible to participate in another publicly funded program by reason of violating that program's requirements, the State agency must follow up with the entity administering the publicly funded program to gather sufficient evidence to determine whether the institution or its principals were, in fact, determined ineligible;
(xiv)
Information on criminal convictions.
(A) A State agency is prohibited from approving an institution's application if the institution or any of its principals has been convicted of any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicated a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency; and
(B) Institutions must submit a certification that neither the institution nor any of its principals has been convicted of any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicated a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency;
(xv)
Certification of truth of applications and submission of names and addresses.
Institutions must submit a certification that all information on the application is true and correct, along with the names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth of the institution's executive director and chair of the board of directors or the owner, in the case of a for-profit center that does not have an executive director or is not required to have a board of directors. In addition, the institution's Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) or the Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) must be provided;
(xvi)
Outside employment policy.
Sponsoring organizations must submit an outside employment policy. The policy must restrict other employment by employees that interferes with an employee's performance of Program-related duties and responsibilities, including outside employment that constitutes a real or apparent conflict of interest. Sponsoring organizations that are participating on July 29, 2002, must submit an outside employment policy not later than September 27, 2002. The
policy will be effective unless disapproved by the State agency;
(xvii)
Bond.
Sponsoring organizations applying for initial participation on or after June 20, 2000, must submit a bond, if such bond is required by State law, regulation, or policy. If the State agency requires a bond for sponsoring organizations pursuant to State law, regulation, or policy, the State agency must submit a copy of that requirement and a list of sponsoring organizations posting a bond to the appropriate FNSRO on an annual basis; and
(xviii)
Compliance with performance standards.
Each new institution must submit information sufficient to document that it is financially viable, is administratively capable of operating the Program in accordance with this part, and has internal controls in effect to ensure accountability. To document this, any new institution must demonstrate in its application that it is capable of operating in conformance with the following performance standards. The State agency must only approve the applications of those new institutions that meet these performance standards, and must deny the applications of those new institutions that do not meet the standards. In ensuring compliance with these performance standards, the State agency should use its discretion in determining whether the institution's application, in conjunction with its past performance in CACFP, establishes to the State agency's satisfaction that the institution meets the performance standards.
(A)
Performance Standard 1—Financial viability and financial management.
The new institution must be financially viable. Program funds must be expended and accounted for in accordance with the requirements of this part, FNS Instruction 796-2 (“Financial Management in the Child and Adult Care Food Program”), and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. To demonstrate financial viability, the new institution must document that it meets the following criteria:
(
1
)
Description of need/recruitment.
A new sponsoring organization must demonstrate in its management plan that its participation will help ensure the delivery of Program benefits to otherwise unserved facilities or participants, in accordance with criteria developed by the State agency pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section. A new sponsoring organization must demonstrate that it will use appropriate practices for recruiting facilities, consistent with paragraph (p) of this section and any State agency requirements;
(
2
)
Fiscal resources and financial history.
A new institution must demonstrate that it has adequate financial resources to operate the CACFP on a daily basis, has adequate sources of funds to continue to pay employees and suppliers during periods of temporary interruptions in Program payments and/or to pay debts when fiscal claims have been assessed against the institution, and can document financial viability (for example, through audits, financial statements, etc.); and
(
3
)
Budgets.
Costs in the institution's budget must be necessary, reasonable, allowable, and appropriately documented;
(B)
Performance Standard 2—Administrative capability.
The new institution must be administratively capable. Appropriate and effective management practices must be in effect to ensure that the Program operates in accordance with this part. To demonstrate administrative capability, the new institution must document that it meets the following criteria:
(
1
) Has an adequate number and type of qualified staff to ensure the operation of the Program in accordance with this part;
(
2
) If a sponsoring organization, documents in its management plan that it employs staff sufficient to meet the ratio of monitors to facilities, taking into account the factors that the State agency will consider in determining a sponsoring organization's staffing needs, as set forth in § 226.16(b)(1); and
(
3
) If a sponsoring organization, has Program policies and procedures in writing that assign Program responsibilities and duties, and ensure compliance with civil rights requirements; and
(C)
Performance Standard 3—Program accountability.
The new institution must have internal controls and other
management systems in effect to ensure fiscal accountability and to ensure that the Program will operate in accordance with the requirements of this part. To demonstrate Program accountability, the new institution must document that it meets the following criteria:
(
1
)
Governing board of directors.
Has adequate oversight of the Program by an independent governing board of directors as defined at § 226.2;
(
2
)
Fiscal accountability.
Has a financial system with management controls specified in writing. For new sponsoring organizations, these written operational policies must assure:
(
i
) Fiscal integrity and accountability for all funds and property received, held, and disbursed;
(
ii
) The integrity and accountability of all expenses incurred;
(
iii
) That claims will be processed accurately, and in a timely manner;
(
iv
) That funds and property are properly safeguarded and used, and expenses incurred, for authorized Program purposes; and
(
v
) That a system of safeguards and controls is in place to prevent and detect improper financial activities by employees;
(
3
)
Recordkeeping.
Maintains appropriate records to document compliance with Program requirements, including budgets, accounting records, approved budget amendments, and, if a sponsoring organization, management plans and appropriate records on facility operations;
(
4
)
Sponsoring organization operations.
If a new sponsoring organization, documents in its management plan that it will:
(
i
) Provide adequate and regular training of sponsoring organization staff and sponsored facilities in accordance with §§ 226.15(e)(12) and (e)(14) and 226.16(d)(2) and (d)(3);
(
ii
) Perform monitoring in accordance with § 226.16(d)(4), to ensure that sponsored facilities accountably and appropriately operate the Program;
(
iii
) If a sponsor of family day care homes, accurately classify day care homes as tier I or tier II in accordance with § 226.15(f); and
(
iv
) Have a system in place to ensure that administrative costs funded from Program reimbursements do not exceed regulatory limits set forth at §§ 226.12(a) and 226.16(b)(1); and
(
5
)
Meal service and other operational requirements.
Independent centers and facilities will follow practices that result in the operation of the Program in accordance with the meal service, recordkeeping, and other operational requirements of this part. These practices must be documented in the independent center's application or in the sponsoring organization's management plan and must demonstrate that independent centers or sponsored facilities will:
(
i
) Provide meals that meet the meal patterns set forth in § 226.20;
(
ii
) Comply with licensure or approval requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section;
(
iii
) Have a food service that complies with applicable State and local health and sanitation requirements;
(
iv
) Comply with civil rights requirements;
(
v
) Maintain complete and appropriate records on file; and
(
vi
) Claim reimbursement only for eligible meals.
(2)
Annual information submission requirements for State agency review of renewing institutions.
Each State agency must establish annual information submission procedures to confirm the continued eligibility of renewing institutions under this part. Renewing institutions must not be required to submit a free and reduced-price policy statement or a nondiscrimination statement unless they make substantive changes to either statement. In addition, the State agency's review procedures must ensure that institutions annually submit information or certify that certain information is still true based on the requirements of this section. For information that must be certified, any new changes made in the past year and not previously reported to the State agency must be updated in the annual renewal information submission. Any additional information submitted in the renewal must be certified by the institution to be true.
(i) This paragraph (b)(2) contains the information that must be certified. The
State agency must ensure that renewing independent centers certify the following to be true:
(A) The institution and its principals are not currently on the National disqualified list, per paragraph (b)(1)(xii) of this section;
(B) A list of any publicly funded programs that the sponsoring organization and its principals have participated in, in the past 7 years, is current, per paragraph (b)(1)(xiii)(B) of this section;
(C) The institution and its principals have not been determined ineligible for any other publicly funded programs due to violation of that program's requirements, in the past 7 years, per paragraphs (b)(1)(xiii)(B) and (C) of this section;
(D) No principals have been convicted of any activity that occurred during the past 7 years and that indicated a lack of business integrity, per paragraph (b)(1)(xiv)(B) of this section;
(E) The names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth of all current principals have been submitted to the State agency, per paragraph (b)(1)(xv) of this section;
(F) The institution is currently compliant with the required performance standards of financial viability and management, administrative capability, and program accountability, per paragraph (b)(1)(xviii) of this section; and
(G) Licensing or approval status of each child care center or adult day care center is up-to-date.
(ii) The State agency must ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations certify the following to be true:
(A) All of the requirements under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section are certified to be true;
(B) The management plan on file with the State agency is complete and up to date, per paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section;
(C) No sponsored facility or principal of a sponsored facility is currently on the National disqualified list, per paragraph (b)(1)(xii) of this section;
(D) The outside employment policy most recently submitted to the State agency remains current and in effect, per paragraph (b)(1)(xvi) of this section;
(E) Licensing or approval status of each sponsored child care center, adult day care center, or day care home is up-to-date;
(F) The list of the sponsoring organization's facilities on file with the State agency is up-to-date; and
(G) All facilities under the sponsoring organization's oversight have adhered to Program training requirements.
(iii)
State agency review of institution information.
The State agency's review of information that must be submitted, certified or updated annually is as follows:
(A)
Management plan.
The State agency must ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations certify that the sponsoring organization has reviewed the current management plan on file with the State agency and that it is complete and up to date. If the management plan has changed, the sponsoring organization must submit updates to the management plan that meet the requirements of § 226.16(b)(1). The State agency must establish factors, consistent with § 226.16(b)(1), that it will consider in determining whether a renewing sponsoring organization has sufficient staff to perform required monitoring responsibilities at all of its sponsored facilities. As part of its management plan review, the State agency must determine the appropriate level of staffing for the sponsoring organization, consistent with the staffing range of monitors set forth at § 226.6(b)(1) and the factors the State agency has established.
(B)
Administrative budget submission.
The State agency must ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations submit an administrative budget for the upcoming year with sufficiently detailed information concerning projected CACFP administrative earnings and expenses, as well as other non-Program funds to be used in Program administration. The State agency must be able to determine the allowability, necessity, and reasonableness of all proposed expenditures, and to assess the sponsoring organization's capability to manage Program funds. The administrative budget must demonstrate that the sponsoring organization will expend and account for funds
in accordance with regulatory requirements, FNS Instruction 796-2 (
Financial Management in the Child and Adult Care Food Program
), 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars. The administrative budget submitted by a sponsoring organization of centers must demonstrate that the administrative costs to be charged to the Program do not exceed 15 percent of the meal reimbursements estimated or actually earned during the budget year, unless the State agency grants a waiver, as described in § 226.7(g). For sponsoring organizations of day care homes seeking to carry over administrative funds, as described in § 226.12(a)(3), the budget must include an estimate of requested administrative fund carryover amounts and a description of proposed purpose for which those funds would be obligated or expended.
(C)
Presence on the National disqualified list.
The State agency must ensure that renewing institutions certify that neither the institution nor its principals are on the National disqualified list. The State agency must also ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations certify that no sponsored facility or facility principal is on the National disqualified list.
(D)
Ineligibility for other publicly funded programs.
A State agency is prohibited from approving a renewing institution or facility's application if, during the past 7 years, the institution, facility, responsible principals, or responsible individuals have been declared ineligible for any other publicly funded program by reason of violating that program's requirements. However, this prohibition does not apply if the institution, facility, responsible principals, or responsible individuals have been fully reinstated in or determined eligible for that program, including the payment of any debts owed. The State agency must follow up with the entity administering the publicly funded program to gather sufficient evidence to determine whether the institution or its principals were, in fact, determined ineligible.
(E)
Information on criminal convictions.
The State agency must ensure that renewing institutions certify that the institution's principals have not been convicted of any activity that occurred during the past 7 years and that indicates a lack of business integrity, as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(F)
Submission of names and addresses.
The State agency must ensure that renewing institutions submit a certification attesting to the validity of the following information: full legal name and any names previously used, mailing address, and dates of birth of the institution's executive director and chair of the board of directors or the owner, in the case of a for-profit center that does not have an executive director or is not required to have a board of directors. In addition, the institution's Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) or the Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) must be provided.
(G)
Outside employment policy.
The State agency must ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations certify that the outside employment policy most recently submitted to the State agency remains current and in effect or the sponsoring organization must submit an updated outside employment policy at the time of renewal. The policy must restrict other employment by employees that interferes with an employee's performance of Program-related duties and responsibilities, including outside employment that constitutes a real or apparent conflict of interest.
(H)
Compliance with performance standards.
The State agency must ensure that each renewing institution certifies that it is still in compliance with the performance standards described in paragraph (b)(1)(xviii) of this section, meaning it is financially viable, is administratively capable of operating the Program in accordance with this part, and has internal controls in effect to ensure accountability.
(I)
Licensing.
The State agency must ensure that each independent center certifies that its licensing or approval status is up-to-date and that it continues to meet the licensing requirements described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. Sponsoring organizations must certify that the licensing or approval status of their facilities is
up-to-date and that they continue to meet the licensing requirements described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. If the independent center or facility has a new license not previously on file with the State agency, a copy must be submitted, unless the State agency has other means of confirming the licensing or approval status of any independent center or facility providing care.
(J)
Facility lists.
The State agency must ensure that each sponsoring organization certifies that the list of all of their applicant day care homes, child care centers, outside-school-hours-care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, emergency shelters, and adult day care centers on file with the State agency is up-to-date.
(K)
Facility training.
The State agency must ensure that renewing sponsoring organizations certify that all facilities under their oversight have adhered to the training requirements set forth in Program regulations.
(iv)
Additional Information collection.
Institutions must provide information to the State agency as specified in paragraphs (f)(3), (f)(4), and (f)(7) of this section.
(3)
State agency notification requirements.
(i) Any new institution applying for participation in the Program must be notified in writing of approval or disapproval by the State agency, within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of a complete application. Whenever possible, State agencies should provide assistance to institutions that have submitted an incomplete application. Any disapproved applicant institution must be notified of the reasons for its disapproval and its right to appeal, as described in paragraph (k) of this section. Any disapproved applicant day care home or unaffiliated center must be notified of the reasons for its disapproval and its right to appeal, as described in paragraph (l) of this section.
(ii) Any renewing institution must be provided written notification indicating whether it has completely and sufficiently met all renewal information requirements within 30 days of the submission of renewal information. Whenever possible, State agencies should provide assistance to institutions whose information is incomplete.
(4)
Program agreements.
(i) The State agency must require each institution that has been approved for participation in the Program to enter into a permanent agreement governing the rights and responsibilities of each party. The existence of a valid permanent agreement, however, does not eliminate the need for an institution to comply with the annual information submission requirements and related provisions at paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section.
(ii) The existence of a valid permanent agreement does not limit the State agency's ability to terminate the agreement, as provided under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The State agency must terminate the institution's agreement whenever an institution's participation in the Program ends. The State agency must terminate the agreement for cause based on violations by the institution, facility, responsible principals, or responsible individuals, as described in paragraph (c) of this section. The State agency or institution may terminate the agreement at its convenience for considerations unrelated to the institution's performance of Program responsibilities under the agreement. However, any action initiated by the State agency to terminate an agreement for its convenience requires prior consultation with FNS. Termination for convenience does not result in ineligibility for any program authorized under this part or parts 210, 215, 220, or 225 of this chapter.
(iii) The Program agreement must include the following requirements:
(A) The responsibility of the institution to accept final financial and administrative management of a proper, efficient, and effective food service, and comply with all requirements under this part.
(B) The responsibility of the institution to comply with all requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Department's regulations concerning nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a and 15b of this title), including requirements for racial and
ethnic participation data collection, public notification of the nondiscrimination policy, and reviews to assure compliance with the nondiscrimination policy, to the end that no person may, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under, the Program.
(C) The right of the State agency, the Department, and other State or Federal officials to make announced or unannounced reviews of their operations during the institution's normal hours of child or adult care operations, and that anyone making such reviews must show photo identification that demonstrates that they are employees of one of these entities.
(c)
Denial of applications and termination of agreements
—(1)
Denial of a new institution's application
—(i)
General.
If a new institution's application does not meet all of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and in §§ 226.15(b) and 226.16(b), the State agency must deny the application. If, in reviewing a new institution's application, the State agency determines that the institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency must initiate action to:
(A) Deny the new institution's application; and
(B) Disqualify the new institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals (e.g., the person who signs the application).
(ii)
List of serious deficiencies for new institutions.
The list of serious deficiencies is not identical for each category of institution (new, renewing, participating) because the type of information likely to be available to the State agency is different, depending on whether the State agency is reviewing a new or renewing institution's application or is conducting a review of a participating institution. Serious deficiencies for new institutions are:
(A) Submission of false information on the institution's application, including but not limited to a determination that the institution has concealed a conviction for any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicates a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency; or
(B) Any other action affecting the institution's ability to administer the Program in accordance with Program requirements.
(iii)
Serious deficiency notification procedures for new institutions.
If the State agency determines that a new institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency must use the following procedures to provide the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals with notice of the serious deficiency(ies) and an opportunity to take corrective action.
(A)
Notice of serious deficiency.
The State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the institution has been determined to be seriously deficient. The notice must identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals (e.g., for new institutions, the person who signed the application) and must be sent to those persons as well. The State agency may specify in the notice different corrective action, and time periods for completing the corrective action, for the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must add the institution to the State agency list, along with the basis for the serious deficiency determination, and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) The serious deficiency(ies);
(
2
) The actions to be taken to correct the serious deficiency(ies);
(
3
) The time allotted to correct the serious deficiency(ies) in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(
4
) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review;
(
5
) That failure to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time will result in denial of the institution's application and the disqualification of the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
6
) That the State agency will not pay any claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served or allowable administrative expenses incurred until the State agency has approved the institution's application and the institution has signed a Program agreement; and
(
7
) That the institution's withdrawal of its application, after having been notified that it is seriously deficient, will still result in the institution's formal termination by the State agency and placement of the institution and its responsible principals and individuals on the National disqualified list; and
(
8
) That, if the State agency does not possess the date of birth for any individual named as a “responsible principal or individual” in the serious deficiency notice, the submission of that person's date of birth is a condition of corrective action for the institution and/or individual.
(B)
Successful corrective action.
(
1
) If corrective action has been taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time and to the State agency's satisfaction, the State agency must:
(
i
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the State agency has temporarily defer its serious deficiency determination; and
(
ii
) Offer the new institution the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the new institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
2
) If corrective action is complete for the institution but not for all of the responsible principals and responsible individuals (or vice versa), the State agency must:
(
i
) Continue with the actions (as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(C) of this section) against the remaining parties;
(
ii
) At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list to indicate that the serious deficiency(ies) has(ve) been corrected and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO; and
(
iii
) If the new institution has corrected the serious deficiency(ies), offer it the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the new institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
3
) If the State agency initially determines that the institution's corrective action is complete, but later determines that the serious deficiency(ies) has recurred, the State agency must move immediately to issue a notice of intent to terminate and disqualify the institution, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.
(C)
Application denial and proposed disqualification.
If timely corrective action is not taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies), the State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution's application has been denied. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the institution's application has been denied and the State agency is proposing to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
2
) The basis for the actions; and
(
3
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section) of the application denial and proposed disqualifications.
(D)
Program payments.
The State agency is prohibited from paying any claims for reimbursement from a new institution for eligible meals served or allowable administrative expenses incurred until the State agency has approved its application and the institution and State agency have signed a Program agreement.
(E)
Disqualification.
When the time for requesting an administrative review expires or when the administrative review official upholds the State agency's denial and proposed disqualifications, the State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals that the institution and the responsible principal and responsible individuals have been disqualified. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice and the mailing address and date of birth for each responsible principal and responsible individual to the appropriate FNSRO.
(2)
Denial of a renewing institution's application
—(i)
General.
If a renewing institution's application does not meet all of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and in §§ 226.15(b) and 226.16(b), the State agency must deny the application. If, in reviewing a renewing institution's application, the State agency determines that the institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the State agency must
initiate
action to deny the renewing institution's application and
initiate
action to disqualify the renewing institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals.
(ii)
List of serious deficiencies for renewing institutions.
The list of serious deficiencies is not identical for each category of institution (new, renewing, participating) because the type of information likely to be available to the State agency is different, depending on whether the State agency is reviewing a new or renewing institution's application or is conducting a review of a participating institution. Serious deficiencies for renewing institutions are:
(A) Submission of false information on the institution's application, including but not limited to a determination that the institution has concealed a conviction for any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicates a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency;
(B) Failure to operate the Program in conformance with the performance standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(xviii) and (b)(2)(vii) of this section;
(C) Failure to comply with the bid procedures and contract requirements of applicable Federal procurement regulations;
(D) Use of a food service management company that is in violation of health codes;
(E) Failure by a sponsoring organization of day care homes to properly classify day care homes as tier I or tier II in accordance with § 226.15(f);
(F) Failure by a sponsoring organization to properly train or monitor sponsored facilities in accordance with § 226.16(d);
(G) Failure to perform any of the other financial and administrative responsibilities required by this part;
(H) Failure to properly implement and administer the day care home termination and administrative review provisions set forth at paragraph (l) of this section and § 226.16(l); or
(I) Any other action affecting the institution's ability to administer the Program in accordance with Program requirements.
(iii)
Serious deficiency notification procedures for renewing institutions.
If the State agency determines that a renewing institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the State agency must use the following procedures to provide the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals notice of the serious deficiency(ies) and an opportunity to take corrective action.
(A)
Notice of serious deficiency.
The State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the institution has been determined to be seriously deficient. The notice must identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals and must be sent to those persons as well. The State
agency may specify in the notice different corrective action, and time periods for completing the corrective action, for the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must add the institution to the State agency list, along with the basis for the serious deficiency determination, and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) The serious deficiency(ies);
(
2
) The actions to be taken to correct the serious deficiency(ies);
(
3
) The time allotted to correct the serious deficiency(ies) in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(
4
) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review.
(
5
) That failure to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time will result in the State agency's denial of the institution's application, the proposed termination of the institution's agreement and the proposed disqualification of the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
6
) That the institution's voluntary termination of its agreement with the State agency after having been notified that it is seriously deficient will still result in the institution's formal termination by the State agency and placement of the institution and its responsible principals and responsible individuals on the National disqualified list; and
(
7
) That, if the State agency does not possess the date of birth for any individual named as a “responsible principal or individual” in the serious deficiency notice, the submission of that person's date of birth is a condition of corrective action for the institution and/or individual.
(B)
Successful corrective action.
(
1
) If corrective action has been taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time and to the State agency's satisfaction, the State agency must:
(
i
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the State agency has temporarily defer its serious deficiency determination; and
(
ii
) Offer the renewing institution the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the renewing institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
2
) If corrective action is complete for the institution but not for all of the responsible principals and responsible individuals (or vice versa), the State agency must:
(
i
) Continue with the actions (as set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C) of this section) against the remaining parties;
(
ii
) At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list to indicate that the serious deficiency(ies) has(ve) been corrected and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO; and
(
iii
) If the renewing institution has corrected the serious deficiency(ies), offer it the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the renewing institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
3
) If the State agency initially determines that the institution's corrective action is complete, but later determines that the serious deficiency(ies) have recurred, the state agency must move immediately to issue a notice of intent to terminate and disqualify the institution, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C) of this section.
(C)
Application denial and proposed disqualification.
If timely corrective action is not taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies), the State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution's application has been denied. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the institution's application has been denied and the State agency is proposing to terminate the institution's agreement and to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
2
) The basis for the actions;
(
3
) That, if the institution voluntarily terminates its agreement after receiving the notice of the proposed termination, the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals will be disqualified;
(
4
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section) of the application denial and proposed disqualifications; and
(
5
) That the institution may continue to participate in the Program and receive Program reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred until its administrative review is completed.
(D)
Agreement termination and disqualification.
When the time for requesting an administrative review expires or when the administrative review official upholds the State agency's denial of the institution's application, the proposed termination, and the proposed disqualifications, the State agency must:
(
1
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the agreement has been terminated and that the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals have been disqualified;
(
2
) Update the State agency list at the time such notice is issued; and
(
3
) Provide a copy of the notice and the mailing address and date of birth for each responsible principal and responsible individual to the appropriate FNSRO.
(3)
Termination of a participating institution's agreement.
(i)
General.
If the State agency holds an agreement with an institution operating in more than one State that has been disqualified from the Program by another State agency and placed on the National disqualified list, the State agency must terminate the institution's agreement effective no later than 45 days of the date of the institution's disqualification by the other State agency. At the same time the notice of termination is issued, the State agency must add the institution to the State agency list and indicate that the institution's agreement has been terminated and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. If the State agency determines that a participating institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the State agency must
initiate
action to terminate the agreement of a participating institution and
initiate
action to disqualify the institution and any responsible principals and responsible individuals.
(ii)
List of serious deficiencies for participating institutions.
The list of serious deficiencies is not identical for each category of institution (new, renewing, participating) because the type of information likely to be available to the State agency is different, depending on whether the State agency is reviewing a new or renewing institution's application or is conducting a review of a participating institution. Serious deficiencies for participating institutions are:
(A) Submission of false information on the institution's application, including but not limited to a determination that the institution has concealed a conviction for any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicates a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency;
(B) Permitting an individual who is on the National disqualified list to serve in a principal capacity with the institution or, if a sponsoring organization, permitting such an individual to serve as a principal in a sponsored center or as a day care home;
(C) Failure to operate the Program in conformance with the performance standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(xviii) and (b)(2)(vii) of this section;
(D) Failure to comply with the bid procedures and contract requirements of applicable Federal procurement regulations;
(E) Failure to return to the State agency any advance payments that exceeded the amount earned for serving eligible meals, or failure to return disallowed start-up or expansion payments;
(F) Failure to maintain adequate records;
(G) Failure to adjust meal orders to conform to variations in the number of participants;
(H) Claiming reimbursement for meals not served to participants;
(I) Claiming reimbursement for a significant number of meals that do not meet Program requirements;
(J) Use of a food service management company that is in violation of health codes;
(K) Failure of a sponsoring organization to disburse payments to its facilities in accordance with the regulations at § 226.16(g) and (h) or in accordance with its management plan;
(L) Claiming reimbursement for meals served by a for-profit child care center or a for-profit outside-school-hours care center during a calendar month in which less than 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were eligible for free or reduced-price meals or were title XX beneficiaries;
(M) Claiming reimbursement for meals served by a for-profit adult day care center during a calendar month in which less than 25 percent of its enrolled adult participants were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries;
(N) Failure by a sponsoring organization of day care homes to properly classify day care homes as tier I or tier II in accordance with § 226.15(f);
(O) Failure by a sponsoring organization to properly train or monitor sponsored facilities in accordance with § 226.16(d);
(P) Use of day care home funds by a sponsoring organization to pay for the sponsoring organization's administrative expenses;
(Q) Failure to perform any of the other financial and administrative responsibilities required by this part;
(R) Failure to properly implement and administer the day care home termination and administrative review provisions set forth at paragraph (l) of this section and § 226.16(l);
(S) The fact the institution or any of the institution's principals have been declared ineligible for any other publicly funded program by reason of violating that program's requirements. However, this prohibition does not apply if the institution or the principal has been fully reinstated in, or is now eligible to participate in, that program, including the payment of any debts owed;
(T) Conviction of the institution or any of its principals for any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicates a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency; or
(U) Any other action affecting the institution's ability to administer the Program in accordance with Program requirements.
(iii)
Serious deficiency notification procedures for participating institutions.
If the State agency determines that a participating institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the State agency must use the following procedures to provide the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals notice of the serious deficiency(ies) and an opportunity to take corrective action. However, if the serious deficiency(ies) constitutes an imminent threat to the health or safety of participants, or the institution has engaged in activities that threaten the public health or safety, the State agency must follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section instead of the procedures below. Further, if the serious deficiency is the submission of a false or fraudulent claim, in addition to the procedures below, the State agency
may suspend the institution's participation in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.
(A)
Notice of serious deficiency.
The State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the institution has been determined seriously deficient. The notice must identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals and must be sent to those persons as well. The State agency may specify in the notice different corrective action and time periods for completing the corrective action for the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must add the institution to the State agency list, along with the basis for the serious deficiency determination, and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) The serious deficiency(ies);
(
2
) The actions to be taken to correct the serious deficiency(ies);
(
3
) The time allotted to correct the serious deficiency(ies) in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(
4
) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review.
(
5
) That failure to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time will result in the State agency's proposed termination of the institution's agreement and the proposed disqualification of the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
6
) That the institution's voluntary termination of its agreement with the State agency after having been notified that it is seriously deficient will still result in the instituion's formal termination by the State agency and placement of the institution and its responsible principals and responsible individuals on the National disqualified list; and
(
7
) That, if the State agency does not possess the date of birth for any individual named as a “responsible principal or individual” in the serious deficiency notice, the submission of that person's date of birth is a condition of corrective action for the institution and/or individual.
(B)
Successful corrective action.
(
1
) If corrective action has been taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time and to the State agency's satisfaction, the State agency must:
(
i
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the State agency has temporarily defer its serious deficiency determination; and
(
ii
) Offer the participating institution the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the participating institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
2
) If corrective action is complete for the institution but not for all of the responsible principals and responsible individuals (or vice versa), the State agency must:
(
i
) Continue with the actions (as set forth in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section) against the remaining parties;
(
ii
) At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list to indicate that the serious deficiency(ies) has(ve) been corrected and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO; and
(
iii
) If the participating institution has corrected the serious deficiency(ies), offer it the opportunity to resubmit its application. If the participating institution resubmits its application, the State agency must complete its review of the application within 30 days after receiving a complete and correct application.
(
3
) If the State agency initially determines that the institution's corrective action is complete, but later determines that the serious deficiency(ies) has recurred, the State agency must move immediately to issue a notice of intent to terminate and disqualify the institution, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.
(C)
Proposed termination and proposed disqualification.
If timely corrective action is not taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies), the State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the State agency is proposing to terminate the institution's agreement and to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the State agency is proposing to terminate the institution's agreement and to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
2
) The basis for the actions;
(
3
) That, if the institution voluntarily terminates its agreement after receiving the notice of proposed termination, the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals will be disqualified.
(
4
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section) of the application denial and proposed disqualifications; and
(
5
) That, unless participation has been suspended, the institution may continue to participate and receive Program reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred until its administrative review is completed.
(D)
Program payments and extended agreement.
If the participating institution must renew its application, or its agreement expires, before the end of the time allotted for corrective action and/or the conclusion of any administrative review requested by the participating institution:
(
1
) The State agency must temporarily extend its current agreement with the participating institution and continue to pay any valid unpaid claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative expenses incurred; and
(
2
) During this period, the State agency may base administrative payments to the institution on the institution's previous approved budget, or may base administrative payments to the institution on the budget submitted by the institution as part of its renewal application; and
(
3
) The actions set forth in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(D)(
1
) and (c)(3)(iii)(D)(
2
) of this section must be taken either until the serious deficiency(ies) is corrected or until the institution's agreement is terminated, including the period of any administrative review;
(E)
Agreement termination and disqualification.
When the time for requesting an administrative review expires or when the administrative review official upholds the State agency's proposed termination and disqualifications, the State agency must:
(
1
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution's agreement has been terminated and that the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals have been disqualified;
(
2
) Update the State agency list at the time such notice is issued; and
(
3
) Provide a copy of the notice and the mailing address and date of birth for each responsible principal and responsible individual to the appropriate FNSRO.
(4)
Corrective action timeframes
—(i)
General.
Except as noted in this paragraph (c)(4), the State agency is prohibited from allowing more than 90 days for corrective action from the date the institution receives the serious deficiency notice.
(ii)
Unlawful practices.
If the State agency determines that the institution has engaged in unlawful practices, submitted false or fraudulent claims or other information to the State agency, or been convicted of or concealed a criminal background, the State agency is prohibited from allowing more than 30 days for corrective action.
(iii)
Long-term changes.
For serious deficiencies requiring the long-term revision of management systems or processes, the State agency may permit more than 90 days to complete the corrective action as long as a corrective
action plan is submitted to and approved by the State agency within 90 days (or such shorter deadline as the State agency may establish). The corrective action must include milestones and a definite completion date that the State agency will monitor. The determination of serious deficiency will remain in effect until the State agency determines that the serious deficiency(ies) has(ve) been fully and permanently corrected within the allotted time.
(5)
Suspension of an institution's participation.
A State agency is prohibited from suspending an institution's participation (including all Program payments) except for the reasons set forth in this paragraph (c)(5).
(i)
Public health or safety
—(A)
General.
If State or local health or licensing officials have cited an institution for serious health or safety violations, the State agency must immediately suspend the institution's Program participation, initiate action to terminate the institution's agreement, and initiate action to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals prior to any formal action to revoke the institution's licensure or approval. If the State agency determines that there is an imminent threat to the health or safety of participants at an institution, or that the institution has engaged in activities that threaten the public health or safety, the State agency must immediately notify the appropriate State or local licensing and health authorities and take action that is consistent with the recommendations and requirements of those authorities. An imminent threat to the health or safety of participants and engaging in activities that threaten the public health or safety constitute serious deficiencies; however, the State agency must use the procedures in this paragraph (c)(5)(i) (instead of the procedures in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) to provide the institution notice of the suspension of participation, serious deficiency, proposed termination of the institution's agreement, and proposed disqualification of the responsible principals and responsible individuals.
(B)
Notice of suspension, serious deficiency, proposed termination, and proposed disqualification.
The State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the institution's participation (including Program payments) has been suspended, that the institution has been determined to be seriously deficient, and that the State agency proposes to terminate the institution's agreement and to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. The notice must also identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals and must be sent to those persons as well. At the same time this notice is sent, the State agency must add the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals to the State agency list, along with the basis for the serious deficiency determination and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the State agency is suspending the institution's participation (including Program payments), proposing to terminate the institution's agreement, and proposing to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
2
) The serious deficiency(ies);
(
3
) That, if the institution voluntary terminates its agreement with the State agency after having been notified of the proposed termination, the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals will be disqualified;
(
4
) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review;
(
5
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (consistent with paragraph (k) of this section) of the suspension, proposed termination, and proposed disqualifications; and
(
6
) That, if the administrative review official overturns the suspension, the institution may claim reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred during the suspension period.
(C)
Agreement termination and disqualification.
When the time for requesting an administrative review expires or when the administrative review official upholds the State agency's proposed
termination and disqualifications, the State agency must:
(
1
) Notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution's agreement has been terminated and that the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals have been disqualified;
(
2
) Update the State agency list at the time such notice is issued; and
(
3
) Provide a copy of the notice and the mailing address and date of birth for each responsible principal and responsible individual to the appropriate FNSRO.
(D)
Program payments.
The State agency is prohibited from paying any claims for reimbursement from a suspended institution. However, if the suspended institution prevails in the administrative review of the proposed termination, the State agency must pay any claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred during the suspension period.
(ii)
False or fraudulent claims
—(A)
General.
If the State agency determines that an institution has knowingly submitted a false or fraudulent claim, the State agency
may
initiate action to suspend the institution's participation and must
initiate
action to terminate the institution's agreement and initiate action to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals (in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section). The submission of a false or fraudulent claim constitutes a serious deficiency as set forth in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, which lists serious deficiencies for participating institutions. If the State agency wishes to suspend the institution's participation, it must use the following procedures to issue the notice of proposed suspension of participation
at the same time
it issues the serious deficiency notice, which must include the information described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section.
(B)
Proposed suspension of participation.
If the State agency decides to propose to suspend an institution's participation due to the institution's submission of a false or fraudulent claim, it must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the State agency intends to suspend the institution's participation (including all Program payments) unless the institution requests a review of the proposed suspension. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals and must be sent to those persons as well. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the State agency is proposing to suspend the institution's participation;
(
2
) That the proposed suspension is based on the institution's submission of a false or fraudulent claim, as described in the serious deficiency notice;
(
3
) The effective date of the suspension (which may be no earlier than 10 days after the institution receives the suspension notice);
(
4
) The name, address and telephone number of the suspension review official who will conduct the suspension review; and
(
5
) That if the institution wishes to have a suspension review, it must request a review and submit to the suspension review official written documentation opposing the proposed suspension within 10 days of the institution's receipt of the notice.
(C)
Suspension review.
If the institution requests a review of the State agency's proposed suspension of participation, the suspension review must be heard by a suspension review official who must:
(
1
) Be an independent and impartial person other than, and not accountable to, any person involved in the decision to initiate suspension proceedings;
(
2
) Immediately notify the State agency that the institution has contested the proposed suspension and must obtain from the State agency its notice of proposed suspension of participation, along with all supporting documentation; and
(
3
) Render a decision on suspension of participation within 10 days of the deadline for receiving the institution's
documentation opposing the proposed suspension.
(D)
Suspension review decision.
If the suspension review official determines that the State agency's proposed suspension is not appropriate, the State agency is prohibited from suspending participation. If the suspension review official determines, based on a preponderance of the evidence, that the State agency's action was appropriate, the State agency must suspend the institution's participation (including all Program payments), effective on the date of the suspension review decision. The State agency must notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution's participation has been suspended. At the same time the notice is issued, the State agency must also update the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO. The notice must also specify:
(
1
) That the State agency is suspending the institution's participation (including Program payments);
(
2
) The effective date of the suspension (the date of the suspension review decision);
(
3
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section) of the suspension; and
(
4
) That if the administrative review official overturns the suspension, the institution may claim reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred during the suspension period.
(E)
Program payments.
A State agency is prohibited from paying any claims for reimbursement submitted by a suspended institution. However, if the institution suspended for the submission of false or fraudulent claims is a sponsoring organization, the State agency must ensure that sponsored facilities continue to receive reimbursement for eligible meals served during the suspension period. If the suspended institution prevails in the administrative review of the proposed termination, the State agency must pay any valid unpaid claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred during the suspension period.
(F)
Maximum time for suspension.
Under no circumstances may the suspension of participation remain in effect for more than 120 days following the suspension review decision.
(6)
FNS determination of serious deficiency
—(i)
General.
FNS may determine independently that a participating institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, which lists serious deficiencies for participating institutions.
(ii)
Serious deficiency notification procedures.
If FNS determines that an institution has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section (the list of serious deficiencies for participating institutions), FNS will use the following procedures to provide the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals with notice of the serious deficiency(ies) and an opportunity to take corrective action.
(A)
Notice of serious deficiency.
FNS will notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors that the institution has been found to be seriously deficient. The notice will identify the responsible principals and responsible individuals and will be sent to them as well. FNS may specify in the notice different corrective action and time periods for completing the corrective action, for the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals. The notice will also specify:
(
1
) The serious deficiency(ies);
(
2
) The actions to be taken to correct the serious deficiency(ies);
(
3
) The time allotted to correct the serious deficiency(ies) in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(
4
) That failure to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time, or the institution's voluntary termination of its agreement(s) with any State agency after having been notified that it is seriously deficient, will result in the proposed disqualification of the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals and the termination of its agreement(s) with all State agencies; and
(
5
) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review.
(B)
Suspension of participation.
If FNS determines that there is an imminent threat to the health or safety of participants at an institution, or that the institution has engaged in activities that threaten the public health or safety, any State agency that holds an agreement with the institution must suspend the participation of the institution. If FNS determines that the institution has submitted a false or fraudulent claim, it may require any State agency that holds an agreement with the institution to initiate action to suspend the institution's participation for false or fraudulent claims in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section (which deals with an institution's suspension by a State agency for submission of false or fraudulent claims). In both cases, FNS will provide the State agency the information necessary to support these actions and, in the case of a false and fraudulent claim, will provide an individual to serve as the suspension review official if requested by the State agency.
(C)
Successful corrective action.
(
1
) If corrective action has been taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time and to FNS's satisfaction, FNS will notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that it has temporarily defer its serious deficiency determination; and
(
2
) If corrective action is complete for the institution but not for all of the responsible principals and responsible individuals (or vice versa), FNS will continue with the actions (as set forth in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(D) of this section) against the remaining parties.
(
3
) If FNS initially determines that the institution's corrective action is complete, but later determines that the serious deficiency(ies) has recurred, FNS will move immediately to issue a notice of intent to terminate and disqualify the institution, in accordance with paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(D) of this section.
(D)
Proposed disqualification.
If timely corrective action is not taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies), FNS will notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that FNS is proposing to disqualify them. The notice will also specify:
(
1
) That FNS is proposing to disqualify the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals;
(
2
) The basis for the actions;
(
3
) That, if the institution seeks to voluntarily terminate its agreement after receiving the notice of proposed disqualification, the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals will be disqualified;
(
4
) The procedures for seeking an administrative review (in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section) of the proposed disqualifications;
(
5
) That unless participation has been suspended, the institution may continue to participate and receive Program reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative costs incurred until its administrative review is completed; and
(
6
) That if the institution does not prevail in the administrative review, any State agency holding an agreement with the institution will be required to terminate that agreement and the institution is prohibited from seeking an administrative review of the termination of the agreement by the State agency(ies).
(E)
Disqualification.
When the time for requesting an administrative review expires or when the administrative review official upholds FNS's proposed disqualifications, FNS will notify the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, that the institution and the responsible principal or responsible individual have been disqualified.
(F)
Program payments.
If the State agency holds an agreement with an institution that FNS has determined to be seriously deficient, the State agency must continue to pay any valid unpaid claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served and allowable administrative expenses incurred until the serious
deficiency(ies) is corrected or the State agency terminates the institution's agreement, including the period of any administrative review, unless participation has been suspended.
(G)
Required State agency action.
(
1
)
Disqualified institutions.
If the State agency holds an agreement with an institution that FNS determines to be seriously deficient and subsequently disqualifies, the State agency must terminate the institution's agreement effective no later than 45 days after the date of the institution's disqualification by FNS. As noted in paragraph (k)(3)(iv) of this section, the termination is not subject to administrative review. At the same time the notice of termination is issued, the State agency must add the institution to the State agency list and provide a copy of the notice to the appropriate FNSRO.
(
2
)
Disqualified principals.
If the State agency holds an agreement with an institution whose principal FNS determines to be seriously deficient and subsequently disqualifies, the State agency must determine the institution to be seriously deficient and initiate action to terminate and disqualify the institution in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The State agency must initiate these actions no later than 45 days after the date of the principal's disqualification by FNS.
(7)
National disqualified list
—(i)
Maintenance and availability of list.
FNS will maintain the National disqualified list and make it available to all State agencies and all sponsoring organizations.
(ii)
Effect on institutions.
No organization on the National disqualified list may participate in the Program as an institution. As noted in paragraphs (b)(1)(xii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the State agency must must not approve the application of a new or renewing institution if the institution is on the National disqualified list. In addition, as noted in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(6)(ii)(G)(
1
) of this section, the State agency must terminate the agreement of any participating institution that is disqualified by another State agency or by FNS.
(iii)
Effect on sponsored centers.
No organization on the National disqualified list may participate in the Program as a sponsored center. As noted in § 226.16(b) and paragraphs (b)(1)(xii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a sponsoring organization is prohibited from submitting an application on behalf of a sponsored facility (and a State agency is prohibited from approving such an application) if the facility is on the National disqualified list.
(iv)
Effect on individuals.
No individual on the National disqualified list may serve as a principal in any institution or facility or as a day care home provider.
(A)
Principal for an institution or a sponsored facility.
As noted in paragraphs (b)(1)(xii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the State agency must must not approve the application of a new or renewing institution if any of the institution's principals is on the National disqualified list. As noted in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(B) and (c)(6)(ii)(G)(
2
) of this section, the State agency must declare an institution seriously deficient and initiate action to terminate the institution's agreement and disqualify the institution if the institution permits an individual who is on the National disqualified list to serve in a principal capacity for the institution or one of its facilities.
(B)
Principal for a sponsored facility.
As noted in § 226.16(b) and paragraphs (b)(1)(xii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a sponsoring organization is prohibited from submitting an application on behalf of a sponsored facility (or a State agency from approving such an application) if any of the facility's principals are on the National disqualified list.
(C)
Serving as a day care home.
As noted in § 226.16(b) and paragraphs (b)(1)(xii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a sponsoring organization is prohibited from submitting an application on behalf of a sponsored facility (and a State agency is prohibited from approving such an application) if the facility is on the National disqualified list.
(v)
Removal of institutions, principals, and individuals from the list.
Once included on the National disqualified list, an institution and responsible principals and responsible individuals remain on the list until such time as FNS, in consultation with the appropriate State agency, determines that
the serious deficiency(ies) that led to their placement on the list has(ve) been corrected, or until seven years have elapsed since they were disqualified from participation. However, if the institution, principal or individual has failed to repay debts owed under the Program, they will remain on the list until the debt has been repaid.
(vi)
Removal of day care homes from the list.
Once included on the National disqualified list, a day care home will remain on the list until such time as the State agency determines that the serious deficiency(ies) that led to its placement on the list has(ve) been corrected, or until seven years have elapsed since its agreement was terminated for cause. However, if the day care home has failed to repay debts owed under the Program, it will remain on the list until the debt has been repaid.
(8)
State agency list
—(i)
Maintenance of the State agency list.
The State agency must maintain a State agency list (in the form of an actual paper or electronic list or retrievable paper records). The list must be made available to FNS upon request, and must include the following information:
(A) Institutions determined to be seriously deficient by the State agency, including the names and mailing addresses of the institutions and the status of the institutions as they move through the possible subsequent stages of corrective action, proposed termination, suspension, agreement termination, and/or disqualification, as applicable;
(B) Responsible principals and individuals who have been disqualified from participation by the State agency, including their names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth; and
(C) Day care home providers whose agreements have been terminated for cause by a sponsoring organization in the State, including their names, mailing addresses, and dates of birth.
(ii)
Referral of disqualified day care homes to FNS.
Within 10 days of receiving a notice of termination and disqualification from a sponsoring organization, the State agency must provide the appropriate FNSRO the name, mailing address, and date of birth of each day care home provider whose agreement is terminated for cause on or after July 29, 2002.
(iii)
Prior lists of disqualified day care homes.
If on July 29, 2002 the State agency maintains a list of day care homes that have been disqualified from participation, the State agency may continue to prohibit participation by those day care homes. However, the State agency must remove a day care home from its prior list no later than the time at which the State agency determines that the serious deficiency(ies) that led to the day care home's placement on the list has(ve) been corrected or July 29, 2009 (unless the day care home has failed to repay debts owed under the Program). If the day care home has failed to repay its debt, the State agency may keep the day care home on its prior list until the debt has been repaid.
(d)
Licensing/approval for institutions or facilities providing child care.
This section prescribes State agency responsibilities to ensure that child care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, outside-school-hours care centers, and day care homes meet the licensing/approval criteria set forth in this part. Emergency shelters are exempt from licensing/approval requirements contained in this section but must meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) to be eligible to participate in the Program. Independent centers shall submit such documentation to the State agency on their own behalf.
(1)
General.
Each State agency must establish procedures to annually review information submitted by institutions to ensure that all participating child care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, outside-school hours care centers, and day care homes:
(i) Are licensed or approved by Federal, State, or local authorities, provided that institutions that are approved for Federal programs on the basis of State or local licensing are not eligible for the Program if their licenses lapse or are terminated; or
(ii) Are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval in situations where the State agency has no information that licensing or approval will be denied; or
(iii) Demonstrate compliance with applicable State or local child care
standards to the State agency, if licensing is not available; or
(iv) Demonstrate compliance with CACFP child care standards to the State agency, if licensing or approval is not available; or
(v) If Federal, State or local licensing or approval is not otherwise required, at-risk afterschool care centers and outside-school-hours care centers must meet State or local health and safety standards. When State or local health and safety standards have not been established, State agencies are encouraged to work with appropriate State and local officials to create such standards. Meeting these standards will remain a precondition for any afterschool center's eligibility for CACFP nutrition benefits.
(2)
Health and safety requirements for emergency shelters.
To be eligible to participate in the Program, emergency shelters must meet applicable State or local health and safety standards.
(3)
CACFP child care standards.
When licensing or approval is not available, independent child care centers, and sponsoring organizations on behalf of their child care centers or day care homes, may elect to demonstrate compliance, annually, with the following CACFP child care standards or other standards specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section:
(i)
Staff/child ratios.
(A) Day care homes provide care for no more than 12 children at any one time. One home caregiver is responsible for no more than 6 children ages 3 and above, or no more than 5 children ages 0 and above. No more than 2 children under the age of 3 are in the care of 1 caregiver. The home provider's own children who are in care and under the age of 14 are counted in the maximum ratios of caregivers to children.
(B) Child care centers do not fall below the following staff/child ratios:
(
1
) For children under 6 weeks of age—1:1;
(
2
) For children ages 6 weeks up to 3 years—1:4;
(
3
) For children ages 3 years up to 6 years—1:6;
(
4
) For children ages 6 years up to 10 years—1:15; and
(
5
) For children ages 10 and above—1:20.
(ii)
Nondiscrimination.
Day care services are available without discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap.
(iii)
Safety and sanitation.
(A) A current health/sanitation permit or satisfactory report of an inspection conducted by local authorities within the past 12 months shall be submitted.
(B) A current fire/building safety permit or satisfactory report of an inspection conducted by local authorities within the past 12 months shall be submitted.
(C) Fire drills are held in accordance with local fire/building safety requirements.
(iv)
Suitability of facilities.
(A) Ventilation, temperature, and lighting are adequate for children's safety and comfort.
(B) Floors and walls are cleaned and maintained in a condition safe for children.
(C) Space and equipment, including rest arrangements for preschool age children, are adequate for the number of age ranges of participating children.
(v)
Social services.
Independent centers, and sponsoring organizations in coordination with their facilities, have procedures for referring families of children in care to appropriate local health and social service agencies.
(vi)
Health services.
(A) Each child is observed daily for indications of difficulties in social adjustment, illness, neglect, and abuse, and appropriate action is initiated.
(B) A procedure is established to ensure prompt notification of the parent or guardian in the event of a child's illness or injury, and to ensure prompt medical treatment in case of emergency.
(C) Health records, including records of medical examinations and immunizations, are maintained for each enrolled child. (Not applicable to day care homes.)
(D) At least one full-time staff member is currently qualified in first aid, including artificial respiration techniques. (Not applicable to day care homes.)
(E) First aid supplies are available.
(F) Staff members undergo initial and periodic health assessments.
(vii)
Staff training.
The institution provides for orientation and ongoing training in child care for all caregivers.
(viii)
Parental involvement.
Parents are afforded the opportunity to observe their children in day care.
(ix)
Self-evaluation.
The institution has established a procedure for periodic self-evaluation on the basis of CACFP child care standards.
(4)
Alternate approval procedures.
Each State agency shall establish procedures to review information submitted by institutions for centers or homes for which licensing or approval is not available in order to establish eligibility for the Program. Licensing or approval is not available when (i) no Federal, State, or local licensing/approval standards have been established for child care centers, or day care homes; or (ii) no mechanism exists to determine compliance with licensing/approval standards. In these situations, independent centers, and sponsoring organizations on behalf of their facilities, may choose to demonstrate compliance with either CACFP child care standards, applicable State child care standards, or applicable local child care standards. State agencies shall provide information about applicable State child care standards and CACFP child care standards to institutions, but may require institutions electing to demonstrate compliance with applicable local child care standards to identify and submit these standards. The State agency may permit independent centers, and sponsoring organizations on behalf of their facilities, to submit self-certification forms, and may grant approval without first conducting a compliance review at the center or facility. But the State agency shall require submission of health/sanitation and fire/safety permits or certificates for all independent centers and facilities seeking alternate child care standards approval. Compliance with applicable child care standards are subject to review in accordance with § 226.6(o).
(e)
Licensing/approval for adult day care centers.
This paragraph prescribes State agency responsibilities to ensure that adult day care centers meet the licensing/approval criteria set forth in this part. Sponsoring organizations shall submit to the State agency documentation that facilities under their jurisdiction are in compliance with licensing/approval requirements. Independent adult day care centers shall submit such documentation to the State agency on their own behalf. Each State agency shall establish procedures to annually review information submitted by institutions to ensure that all participating adult day care centers either:
(1) Are licensed or approved by Federal, State or local authorities, provided that institutions which are approved for Federal programs on the basis of State or local licensing shall not be eligible for the Program if their licenses lapse or are terminated; or
(2) Are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval in situations where the State agency has no information that licensing or approval will be denied.
(f)
Miscellaneous responsibilities.
State agencies must require institutions to comply with the applicable provisions of this part and must provide or collect the information specified in this paragraph (f).
(1)
Annual responsibilities.
In addition to its other responsibilities under this part, each State agency must annually:
(i) Inform institutions that are pricing programs of their responsibility to ensure that free and reduced-price meals are served to participants unable to pay the full price;
(ii) Provide to all institutions a copy of the income standards to be used by institutions for determining the eligibility of participants for free and reduced-price meals under the Program;
(iii) Require centers to submit current eligibility information on enrolled participants, in order to calculate a blended rate or claiming percentage in accordance with § 226.9(b);
(iv) Require each sponsoring organization to submit an administrative budget with sufficiently detailed information concerning projected CACFP administrative earnings and expenses, as well as other non-Program funds to be used in Program administration, for the State agency to determine the allowability, necessity, and reasonableness of all proposed expenditures, and to assess the sponsoring organization's
capability to manage Program funds. The administrative budget must demonstrate that the sponsoring organization will expend and account for funds in accordance with regulatory requirements, FNS Instruction 796-2 (
Financial Management—Child and Adult Care Food Program
), 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars. The administrative budget submitted by a sponsoring organization of centers must demonstrate that the administrative costs to be charged to the Program do not exceed 15 percent of the meal reimbursements estimated or actually earned during the budget year, unless the State agency grants a waiver, as described in § 226.7(g). For sponsoring organizations of day care homes seeking to carry over administrative funds, as described in § 226.12(a)(3), the budget must include an estimate of requested administrative fund carryover amounts and a description of proposed purpose for which those funds would be obligated or expended.
(v) Require each institution to issue a media release, unless the State agency has issued a Statewide media release on behalf of all its institutions;
(vi) Require each independent center to provide information concerning its licensing/approval status, and require each sponsoring organization to provide information concerning the licensing/approval status of its facilities, unless the State agency has other means of confirming the licensing/approval status of any independent center or facility providing care;
(vii) Require each sponsoring organization to submit verification that all facilities under its sponsorship have adhered to the training requirements set forth in Program regulations; and
(viii) Comply with the following requirements for tiering of day care homes:
(A) Coordinate with the State agency that administers the National School Lunch Program (the NSLP State agency) to ensure the receipt of a list of schools in the State in which at least one-half of the children enrolled are certified eligible to receive free or reduced-price meals. The State agency must provide the list of schools to sponsoring organizations of day care homes by February 15 each year unless the NSLP State agency has elected to base data for the list on a month other than October. In that case, the State agency must provide the list to sponsoring organizations of day care homes within 15 calendar days of its receipt from the NSLP State agency.
(B) For tiering determinations of day care homes that are based on school or census data, the State agency must ensure that sponsoring organizations of day care homes use the most recent available data, as described in § 226.15(f).
(C) For tiering determinations of day care homes that are based on the provider's household income, the State agency must ensure that sponsoring organizations annually determine the eligibility of each day care home, as described in § 226.15(f).
(D) The State agency must provide all sponsoring organizations of day care homes in the State with a listing of State-funded programs, participation in which by a parent or child will qualify a meal served to a child in a tier II home for the tier I rate of reimbursement.
(E) The State agency must require each sponsoring organization of family day care homes to submit to the State agency a list of family day care home providers receiving tier I benefits on the basis of their participation in the SNAP. Within 30 days of receiving this list, the State agency will provide this list to the State agency responsible for the administration of the SNAP.
(ix) Comply with the following requirements for determining the eligibility of at-risk afterschool care centers:
(A) Coordinate with the NSLP State agency to ensure the receipt of a list of schools in the State in which at least one-half of the children enrolled are certified eligible to receive free or reduced-price meals. The State agency must provide the list of schools to independent at-risk afterschool care centers and sponsoring organizations of at-risk afterschool care centers upon request. The list must represent data from the preceding October, unless the NSLP State agency has elected to base
data for the list on a month other than October. If the NSLP State agency chooses a month other than October, it must do so for the entire State.
(B) The State agency must determine the area eligibility for each independent at-risk afterschool care center. The State agency must use the most recent data available, as described in § 226.6(f)(1)(ix)(A). The State agency must use attendance area information that it has obtained, or verified with the appropriate school officials to be current, within the last school year.
(C) The State agency must determine the area eligibility of each sponsored at-risk afterschool care center based on the documentation submitted by the sponsoring organization in accordance with § 226.15(g).
(D) The State agency must determine whether the afterschool care programs of at-risk afterschool care centers meet the requirements of § 226.17a(b) before the centers begin participating in the Program.
(2)
Responsibilities at other time intervals
—(i)
Day care home tiering redeterminations based on school data.
As described in § 226.15(f), tiering determinations are valid for five years if based on school data. The State agency must ensure that the most recent available data is used if the determination of a day care home's eligibility as a tier I day care home is made using school data. The State agency must not routinely require annual redeterminations of the tiering status of tier I day care homes based on updated school data. However, a sponsoring organization, the State agency, or FNS may change the determination if information becomes available indicating that a day care home is no longer in a qualified area.
(ii)
Area eligibility redeterminations for at-risk afterschool care centers.
Area eligibility determinations are valid for five years for at-risk afterschool care centers that are already participating in the Program. The State agency may determine the date in the fifth year when the next five-year cycle of area eligibility will begin. The State agency must redetermine the area eligibility for each independent at-risk afterschool care center in accordance with § 226.6(f)(1)(ix)(B). The State agency must redetermine the area eligibility of each sponsored at-risk afterschool care center based on the documentation submitted by the sponsoring organization in accordance with § 226.15(g). The State agency must not routinely require annual redeterminations of area eligibility based on updated school data during the five-year period, except in cases where the State agency has determined it is most efficient to incorporate area eligibility decisions into the three-year application cycle. However, a sponsoring organization, the State agency, or FNS may change the determination if information becomes available indicating that an at-risk afterschool care center is no longer area eligible.
(iii)
State agency transmittal of census data.
Upon receipt of census data from FNS (on a decennial basis), the State agency must provide each sponsoring organization of day care homes with census data showing areas in the State in which at least 50 percent of the children are from households meeting the income standards for free or reduced-price meals.
(iv)
Additional institution requirements.
At intervals and in a manner specified by the State agency, but not more frequently than annually, the State agency may:
(A) Require independent centers to submit a budget with sufficiently detailed information and documentation to enable the State agency to make an assessment of the independent center's qualifications to manage Program funds. Such budget must demonstrate that the independent center will expend and account for funds in accordance with regulatory requirements, FNS Instruction 796-2 (“Financial Management in the Child and Adult Care Food Program”), and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars;
(B) Request institutions to report their commodity preference;
(C) Require a private nonprofit institution to submit evidence of tax exempt status in accordance with § 226.15(a);
(D) Require for-profit institutions to submit documentation on behalf of their centers of:
(
1
) Eligibility of at least 25 percent of children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) for free or reduced-price meals; or
(
2
) Compensation received under title XX of the Social Security Act of nonresidential day care services and certification that at least 25 percent of children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were title XX beneficiaries during the most recent calendar month.
(E) Require for-profit adult care centers to submit documentation that they are currently providing nonresidential day care services for which they receive compensation under title XIX or title XX of the Social Security Act, and certification that not less than 25 percent of enrolled participants in each such center during the most recent calendar month were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries;
(F) Request each institution to indicate its choice to receive all, part or none of advance payments, if the State agency chooses to make advance payments available; and
(G) Perform verification in accordance with § 226.23(h) and paragraph (m)(4) of this section. State agencies verifying the information on free and reduced-price applications must ensure that verification activities are conducted without regard to the participant's race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability.
(g)
Program expansion.
Each State agency must take action to expand the availability of benefits under this Program, and must conduct outreach to potential sponsoring organizations of family day care homes that might administer the Program in low-income or rural areas.
(h)
Commodity distribution.
The State agency must require new institutions to state their preference to receive commodities or cash-in-lieu of commodities when they apply, and may periodically inquire as to participating institutions' preference to receive commodities or cash-in-lieu of commodities. State agencies must annually provide institutions with information on foods available in plentiful supply, based on information provided by the Department. Each institution electing cash-in-lieu of commodities shall receive such payments. Each institution which elects to receive commodities shall have commodities provided to it unless the State agency, after consultation with the State commodity distribution agency, demonstrates to FNS that distribution of commodities to the number of such institutions would be impracticable. The State agency may then, with the concurrence of FNS, provide cash-in-lieu of commodities for all institutions. A State agency request for cash-in-lieu of all commodities shall be submitted to FNS not later than May 1 of the school year preceding the school year for which the request is made. The State agency shall, by June 1 of each year, submit a list of institutions which have elected to receive commodities to the State commodity distribution agency, unless FNS has approved a request for cash-in-lieu of commodities for all institutions. The list shall be accompanied by information on the average daily number of lunches and suppers to be served to participants by each such institution.
(i)
Standard contract.
Each State agency shall develop a standard contract in accordance with § 226.21 and provide for its use between institutions and food service management companies. The contract shall expressly and without exception stipulate:
(1) The institution shall provide the food service management company with a list of the State agency approved child care centers, day care homes, adult day care centers, and outside-school-hours care centers to be furnished meals by the food service management company, and the number of meals, by type, to be delivered to each location;
(2) The food service management company shall maintain such records (supported by invoices, receipts or other evidence) as the institution will need to meet its responsibilities under this part, and shall promptly submit invoices and delivery reports to the institution no less frequently than monthly;
(3) The food service management company shall have Federal, State or
local health certification for the plant in which it proposes to prepare meals for use in the Program, and it shall ensure that health and sanitation requirements are met at all times. In addition, the State agency may require the food service management company to provide for meals which it prepares to be periodically inspected by the local health department or an independent agency to determine bacteria levels in the meals being prepared. These bacteria levels shall conform to the standards which are applied by the local health authority with respect to the level of bacteria which may be present in meals prepared or served by other establishments in the locality. Results of these inspections shall be submitted to the institution and to the State agency;
(4) The meals served under the contract shall conform to the cycle menus upon which the bid was based, and to menu changes agreed upon by the institution and food service management company;
(5) The books and records of the food service management company pertaining to the institution's food service operation shall be available for inspection and audit by representatives of the State agency, of the Department, and of the U.S. General Accounting Office at any reasonable time and place, for a period of 3 years from the date of receipt of final payment under the contract, or in cases where an audit requested by the State agency or the Department remains unresolved, until such time as the audit is resolved;
(6) The food service management company shall operate in accordance with current Program regulations;
(7) The food service management company shall not be paid for meals which are delivered outside of the agreed upon delivery time, are spoiled or unwholesome at the time of delivery, or do not otherwise meet the meal requirements contained in the contract;
(8) Meals shall be delivered in accordance with a delivery schedule prescribed in the contract;
(9) Increases and decreases in the number of meal orders may be made by the institution, as needed, within a prior notice period mutually agreed upon in the contract;
(10) All meals served under the Program shall meet the requirements of § 226.20;
(11) All breakfasts, lunches, and suppers delivered for service in outside-school-hours care centers shall be unitized, with or without milk, unless the State agency determines that unitization would impair the effectiveness of food service operations. For meals delivered to child care centers and day care homes, the State agency may require unitization, with or without milk, of all breakfasts, lunches, and suppers only if the State agency has evidence which indicates that this requirement is necessary to ensure compliance with § 226.20.
(j)
Procurement provisions.
State agencies must require institutions to adhere to the procurement provisions set forth in § 226.22 and must determine that all meal procurements with food service management companies are in conformance with bid and contractual requirements of § 226.22.
(k)
Administrative reviews for institutions and responsible principals and responsible individuals
—(1)
General.
The State agency must develop procedures for offering administrative reviews to institutions and responsible principals and responsible individuals. The procedures must be consistent with paragraph (k) of this section.
(2)
Actions subject to administrative review.
Except as provided in § 226.8(g), the State agency must offer an administrative review for the following actions:
(i)
Application denial.
Denial of a new or renewing institution's application for participation (see paragraph (b) of this section, on State agency review of an institution's application; and paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, on State agency denial of a new or renewing institution's application);
(ii)
Denial of sponsored facility application.
Denial of an application submitted by a sponsoring organization on behalf of a facility;
(iii)
Notice of proposed termination.
Proposed termination of an institution's agreement (see paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C), (c)(3)(iii)(C), and (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section, dealing with
proposed termination of agreements with renewing institutions, participating institutions, and participating institutions suspended for health or safety violations);
(iv)
Notice of proposed disqualification of a responsible principal or responsible individual.
Proposed disqualification of a responsible principal or responsible individual (see paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(C), (c)(2)(iii)(C), (c)(3)(iii)(C), and (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section, dealing with proposed disqualification of responsible principals or responsible individuals in new, renewing, and participating institutions, and participating institutions suspended for health or safety violations);
(v)
Suspension of participation.
Suspension of an institution's participation (see paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(B) and (c)(5)(ii)(D) of this section, dealing with suspension for health or safety reasons or submission of a false or fraudulent claim);
(vi)
Start-up or expansion funds denial.
Denial of an institution's application for start-up or expansion payments (see § 226.7(h));
(vii)
Advance denial.
Denial of a request for an advance payment (see § 226.10(b));
(viii)
Recovery of advances.
Recovery of all or part of an advance in excess of the claim for the applicable period. The recovery may be through a demand for full repayment or an adjustment of subsequent payments (see § 226.10(b)(3));
(ix)
Claim denial.
Denial of all or a part of an institution's claim for reimbursement (except for a denial based on a late submission under § 226.10(e)) (see §§ 226.10(f) and 226.14(a));
(x)
Claim deadline exceptions and requests for upward adjustments to a claim.
Decision by the State agency not to forward to FNS an exception request by an institution for payment of a late claim, or a request for an upward adjustment to a claim (see § 226.10(e));
(xi)
Overpayment demand.
Demand for the remittance of an overpayment (see § 226.14(a)); and
(xii)
Other actions.
Any other action of the State agency affecting an institution's participation or its claim for reimbursement.
(3)
Actions not subject to administrative review.
The State agency is prohibited from offering administrative reviews of the following actions:
(i)
FNS decisions on claim deadline exceptions and requests for upward adjustments to a claim.
A decision by FNS to deny an exception request by an institution for payment of a late claim, or for an upward adjustment to a claim (see § 226.10(e));
(ii)
Determination of serious deficiency.
A determination that an institution is seriously deficient (see paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A), (c)(2)(iii)(A), (c)(3)(iii)(A), and (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section, dealing with proposed disqualification of responsible principals or responsible individuals in new, renewing, and participating institutions, and participating institutions suspended for health or safety violations);
(iii)
State agency determination that corrective action is inadequate.
A determination by the State agency that the corrective action taken by an institution or by a responsible principal or individual does not completely and permanently correct a serious deficiency;
(iv)
Disqualification and placement on State agency list and National disqualified list.
Disqualification of an institution or a responsible principal or responsible individual, and the subsequent placement on the State agency list and the National disqualified list (see paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(E), (c)(2)(iii)(E), (c)(3)(iii)(E), and (c)(5)(i)(C) of this section, dealing with proposals to disqualify related to new, renewing, and participating institutions, and in institutions suspended for health or safety violations);
(v)
Termination.
Termination of a participating institution's agreement, including termination of a participating institution's agreement based on the disqualification of the institution by another State agency or FNS (see paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(7)(ii) of this section);
(vi)
State agency or FNS decision regarding removal from the National disqualified list.
A determination, by either the State agency or by FNS, that the corrective action taken by an institution or a responsible principal or individual is not adequate to warrant the removal of the institution or the responsible principal or individual from the National disqualified list; or
(vii)
State agency's refusal to consider an application submitted by an institution or facility on the National disqualified list.
The State agency's refusal to consider an institution's application when either the institution or one of its principals is on the National disqualified list, or the State agency's refusal to consider an institution's submission of an application on behalf of a facility when either the facility or one of its principals is on the National disqualified list.
(4)
Provision of administrative review procedures to institutions and responsible principals and responsible individuals.
The State agency's administrative review procedures must be provided:
(i) Annually to all institutions;
(ii) To an institution and to each responsible principal and responsible individual when the State agency takes any action subject to an administrative review as described in paragraph (k)(2) of this section; and
(iii) Any other time upon request.
(5)
Procedures.
Except as described in paragraph (k)(9) of this section, which sets forth the circumstances under which an abbreviated administrative review is held, the State agency must follow the procedures in this paragraph (k)(5) when an institution or a responsible principal or responsible individual appeals any action subject to administrative review as described in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.
(i)
Notice of action.
The institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, must be given notice of the action being taken or proposed, the basis for the action, and the procedures under which the institution and the responsible principals or responsible individuals may request an administrative review of the action.
(ii)
Time to request administrative review.
The request for administrative review must be submitted in writing not later than 15 days after the date the notice of action is received, and the State agency must acknowledge the receipt of the request for an administrative review within 10 days of its receipt of the request. The State agency must provide a copy of the written request for an administrative review, including the date of receipt of the request to FNS within 10 days of its receipt of the request.
(iii)
Representation.
The institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals may retain legal counsel, or may be represented by another person.
(iv)
Review of record.
Any information on which the State agency's action was based must be available to the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals for inspection from the date of receipt of the request for an administrative review.
(v)
Opposition.
The institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals may refute the findings contained in the notice of action in person or by submitting written documentation to the administrative review official. In order to be considered, written documentation must be submitted to the administrative review official not later than 30 days after receipt of the notice of action.
(vi)
Hearing.
A hearing must be held by the administrative review official in addition to, or in lieu of, a review of written information only if the institution or the responsible principals and responsible individuals request a hearing in the written request for an administrative review. If the institution's representative, or the responsible principals or responsible individuals or their representative, fail to appear at a scheduled hearing, they waive the right to a personal appearance before the administrative review official, unless the administrative review official agrees to reschedule the hearing. A representative of the State agency must be allowed to attend the hearing to respond to the testimony of the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals and to answer questions posed by the administrative review official. If a hearing is requested, the institution, the responsible principals and responsible individuals, and the State agency must be provided with at least 10 days advance notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(vii)
Administrative review official.
The administrative review official must be independent and impartial. This means that, although the administrative review official may be an employee of the
State agency, he/she must not have been involved in the action that is the subject of the administrative review, or have a direct personal or financial interest in the outcome of the administrative review. The institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals must be permitted to contact the administrative review official directly if they so desire.
(viii)
Basis for decision.
The administrative review official must make a determination based solely on the information provided by the State agency, the institution, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, and based on Federal and State laws, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the Program.
(ix)
Time for issuing a decision.
Within 60 days of the State agency's receipt of the request for an administrative review, the administrative review official must inform the State agency, the institution's executive director and chairman of the board of directors, and the responsible principals and responsible individuals, of the administrative review's outcome. This timeframe is an administrative requirement for the State agency and may not be used as a basis for overturning the State agency's action if a decision is not made within the specified timeframe. State agencies failing to meet the timeframe set forth in this paragraph are liable for all valid claims for reimbursement to aggrieved institutions, as specified in paragraph (k)(11)(i) of this section.
(x)
Final decision.
The determination made by the administrative review official is the final administrative determination to be afforded the institution and the responsible principals and responsible individuals.
(6)
Federal audit findings.
FNS may assert a claim against the State agency, in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 226.14(c), when an administrative review results in the dismissal of a claim against an institution asserted by the State agency based upon Federal audit findings.
(7)
Record of result of administrative reviews.
The State agency must maintain searchable records of all administrative reviews and their disposition.
(8)
Combined administrative reviews for responsible principals and responsible individuals.
The State agency must conduct the administrative review of the proposed disqualification of the responsible principals and responsible individuals as part of the administrative review of the application denial, proposed termination, and/or proposed disqualification of the institution with which the responsible principals or responsible individuals are associated. However, at the administrative review official's discretion, separate administrative reviews may be held if the institution does not request an administrative review or if either the institution or the responsible principal or responsible individual demonstrates that their interests conflict.
(9)
Abbreviated administrative review.
The State agency must limit the administrative review to a review of written submissions concerning the accuracy of the State agency's determination if the application was denied or the State agency proposes to terminate the institution's agreement because:
(i) The information submitted on the application was false (see paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A), (c)(2)(ii)(A), and (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section);
(ii) The institution, one of its sponsored facilities, or one of the principals of the institution or its facilities is on the national disqualified list (see paragraph (b)(12) of this section);
(iii) The institution, one of its sponsored facilities, or one of the principals of the institution or its facilities is ineligible to participate in any other publicly funded program by reason of violation of the requirements of the program (see paragraph (b)(13) and (c)(3)(ii)(S) of this section); or
(iv) The institution, one of its sponsored facilities, or one of the principals of the institution or its facilities has been convicted for any activity that indicates a lack of business integrity (see paragraphs (b)(14) and (c)(3)(ii)(T) of this section).
(10)
Effect of State agency action.
The State agency's action must remain in effect during the administrative review. The effect of this requirement on particular State agency actions is as follows.
(i)
Overpayment demand.
During the period of the administrative review, the State agency is prohibited from
taking action to collect or offset the overpayment. However, the State agency must assess interest beginning with the initial demand for remittance of the overpayment and continuing through the period of administrative review unless the administrative review official overturns the State agency's action.
(ii)
Recovery of advances.
During the administrative review, the State agency must continue its efforts to recover advances in excess of the claim for reimbursement for the applicable period. The recovery may be through a demand for full repayment or an adjustment of subsequent payments.
(iii)
Program payments.
The availability of Program payments during an administrative review of the denial of a new institution's application, denial of a renewing institution's application, proposed termination of a participating institution's agreement, and suspension of an institution are addressed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(D), (c)(2)(iii)(D), (c)(3)(iii)(D), (c)(5)(i)(D), and (c)(5)(ii)(E), respectively, of this section.
(11)
State liability for payments.
(i) A State agency that fails to meet the 60-day timeframe set forth in paragraph (k)(5)(ix) of this section must pay, from non-Federal sources, all valid claims for reimbursement to the institution during the period beginning on the 61st day and ending on the date on which the hearing determination is made, unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted.
(ii) FNS will notify the State agency of its liability for reimbursement at least 30 days before liability is imposed. The timeframe for written notice from FNS is an administrative requirement and may not be used to dispute the State's liability for reimbursement.
(iii) The State agency may submit, for FNS review, information supporting a request for a reduction in the State's liability, a reconsideration of the State's liability, or an exception to the 60-day deadline, for exceptional circumstances. After review of this information, FNS will recover any improperly paid Federal funds.
(l)
Administrative reviews for day care homes
—(1)
General.
The State agency must ensure that, when a sponsoring organization proposes to terminate its Program agreement with a day care home for cause, the day care home is provided an opportunity for an administrative review of the proposed termination. The State agency may do this either by electing to offer a State-level administrative review, or by electing to require the sponsoring organization to offer an administrative review. The State agency must notify the appropriate FNSRO of its election under this option, or any change it later makes under this option, by September 25, 2002 or within 30 days of any subsequent change under this option. The State agency must make the same election with regard to who offers the administrative review to any day care home in the Program in that State. The State agency or the sponsoring organization must develop procedures for offering and providing these administrative reviews, and these procedures must be consistent with this paragraph (l).
(2)
Actions subject to administrative review.
The State agency or sponsoring organization must offer an administrative review to a day care home that appeals a notice of intent to terminate their agreement for cause or a suspension of their participation (see §§ 226.16(l)(3)(iii) and (l)(4)(ii)).
(3)
Actions not subject to administrative review.
Neither the State agency nor the sponsoring organization is required to offer an administrative review for reasons other than those listed in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(4)
Provision of administrative review procedures to day care homes.
The administrative review procedures must be provided:
(i) Annually to all day care homes;
(ii) To a day care home when the sponsoring organization takes any action subject to an administrative review as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section; and
(iii) Any other time upon request.
(5)
Procedures.
The State agency or sponsoring organization, as applicable (depending on the State agency's election pursuant to paragraph (l)(1) of this section) must follow the procedures in this paragraph (l)(5) when a day care
home requests an administrative review of any action described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(i)
Uniformity.
The same procedures must apply to all day care homes.
(ii)
Representation.
The day care home may retain legal counsel, or may be represented by another person.
(iii)
Review of record and opposition.
The day care home may review the record on which the decision was based and refute the action in writing. The administrative review official is not required to hold a hearing.
(iv)
Administrative review official.
The administrative review official must be independent and impartial. This means that, although the administrative review official may be an employee of the State agency or an employee or board member of the sponsoring organization, he/she must not have been involved in the action that is the subject of the administrative review or have a direct personal or financial interest in the outcome of the administrative review;
(v)
Basis for decision.
The administrative review official must make a determination based on the information provided by the sponsoring organization and the day care home and on Federal and State laws, regulations, polices, and procedures governing the Program.
(vi)
Time for issuing a decision.
The administrative review official must inform the sponsoring organization and the day care home of the administrative review's outcome within the period of time specified in the State agency's or sponsoring organization's administrative review procedures. This timeframe is an administrative requirement for the State agency or sponsoring organization and may not be used as a basis for overturning the termination if a decision is not made within the specified timeframe.
(vii)
Final decision.
The determination made by the administrative review official is the final administrative determination to be afforded the day care home.
(m)
Program assistance
—(1)
General.
The State agency must provide technical and supervisory assistance to institutions and facilities to facilitate effective Program operations, monitor progress toward achieving Program goals, and ensure compliance with all requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Department's regulations concerning nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a, and 15b of this title). The State agency must maintain documentation of supervisory assistance activities, including reviews conducted, corrective actions prescribed, and follow-up efforts.
(2)
Review priorities.
In choosing institutions for review, in accordance with paragraph (m)(6) of this section, the State agency must target for more frequent review institutions whose prior review included a finding of serious deficiency.
(3)
Review content.
As part of its conduct of reviews, the State agency must assess each institution's compliance with the requirements of this part pertaining to:
(i) Recordkeeping;
(ii) Meal counts;
(iii) Administrative costs;
(iv) Any applicable instructions and handbooks issued by FNS and the Department to clarify or explain this part, and any instructions and handbooks issued by the State agency which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part;
(v) Facility licensing and approval;
(vi) Compliance with the requirements for annual updating of enrollment forms;
(vii) Compliance with the requirements for submitting and ensuring the accuracy of the annual renewal information;
(viii) If an independent center, observation of a meal service;
(ix) If a sponsoring organization, training and monitoring of facilities, including the timing of reviews, as described in § 226.16(d)(4)(iii);
(x) If a sponsoring organization, implementation of the household contact system established by the State agency pursuant to paragraph (m)(5) of this section;
(xi) If a sponsoring organization of day care homes, the requirements for classification of tier I and tier II day care homes; and
(xii) All other Program requirements.
(4)
Review of sponsored facilities.
As part of each required review of a sponsoring organization, the State agency must select a sample of facilities, in accordance with paragraph (m)(6) of this section. As part of such reviews, the State agency must conduct verification of Program applications in accordance with § 226.23(h) and must compare enrollment and attendance records (except in those outside-school-hours care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, and emergency shelters where enrollment records are not required and the sponsoring organization's review results for that facility to meal counts submitted by those facilities for five days.
(5)
Household contacts.
As part of their monitoring of institutions, State agencies must establish systems for making household contacts to verify the enrollment and attendance of participating children. Such systems must specify the circumstances under which household contacts will be made, as well as the procedures for conducting household contacts. In addition, State agencies must establish a system for sponsoring organizations to use in making household contacts as part of their review and oversight of participating facilities. Such systems must specify the circumstances under which household contacts will be made, as well as the procedures for conducting household contacts. State agencies must submit to FNSROs, no later than April 1, 2005, the policies and procedures they have developed governing household contacts conducted by both the State agency, as part of institution and facility reviews conducted in accordance with this paragraph (m), and by sponsoring organizations as part of the facility review process described in § 226.16(d)(5).
(6)
Frequency and number of required institution reviews.
The State agency must annually review at least 33.3 percent of all institutions. At least 15 percent of the total number of facility reviews required must be unannounced. The State agency must review institutions according to the following schedule:
(i) At least once every 3 years, independent centers and sponsoring organizations that operate 1 to 100 facilities must be reviewed. A sponsoring organization review must include reviews of 10 percent of the sponsoring organization's facilities.
(ii) At least once every 2 years, sponsoring organizations that operate more than 100 facilities, that conduct activities other than CACFP, that have been identified during a recent review as having serious management problems, or that are at risk of having serious management problems must be reviewed. These reviews must include reviews of 5 percent of the sponsoring organization's first 1,000 facilities and 2.5 percent of the sponsoring organization's facilities in excess of 1,000.
(iii) At least once every 2 years, independent centers that conduct activities other than CACFP, that have been identified during a recent review as having serious management problems, or that are at risk of having serious management problems must be reviewed.
(iv) New sponsoring organizations that operate five or more facilities must be reviewed within the first 90 days of Program operations.
(n)
Program irregularities.
Each State agency shall promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of the Program, and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. State agencies shall maintain on file evidence of such investigations and actions. FNS and OIG may make investigations at the request of the State agency, or whenever FNS or OIG determines that investigations are appropriate.
(o)
Child care standards compliance.
The State agency shall, when conducting administrative reviews of child care centers, and day care homes approved by the State agency under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, determine compliance with the child care standards used to establish eligibility, and the institution shall ensure that all violations are corrected and the State shall ensure that the institution has corrected all violations. If violations are not corrected within the specified timeframe for corrective action, the State agency must issue a notice of serious deficiency in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section or
§ 226.16(l), as appropriate. However, if the health or safety of the children is imminently threatened, the State agency or sponsoring organization must follow the procedures set forth at paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, or § 226.16(l)(4), as appropriate. The State agency may deny reimbursement for meals served to attending children in excess of authorized capacity.
(p)
Sponsoring organization agreement.
(1) Each State agency must develop and provide for the use of a standard form of written permanent agreement between each sponsoring organization and the day care homes or unaffiliated child care centers, outside-school-hours-care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, emergency shelters, or adult day care centers for which it has responsibility for Program operations. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties. The State agency may, at the request of the sponsoring organization, approve an agreement developed by the sponsoring organization. Nothing in this paragraph limits the ability of the sponsoring organization to suspend or terminate the permanent agreement, as described in § 226.16(l).
(2) At a minimum, the standard agreement must require day care homes and centers to:
(i) Allow visits by sponsoring organizations or State agencies to review meal service and records;
(ii) Promptly inform the sponsoring organization about any change in its licensing or approval status;
(iii) Meet any State agency approved time limit for submission of meal records; and
(iv) Distribute to parents a copy of the sponsoring organization's notice to parents if directed to do so by the sponsoring organization.
(3) The agreement must include the right of day care homes and centers to receive timely reimbursement. The sponsoring organization must pay program funds to day care homes and centers within 5 working days of receipt from the State agency.
(4) The State agency must include in this agreement its policy to restrict transfers of day care homes among sponsoring organizations. The policy must restrict the transfers to no more frequently than once per year, except under extenuating circumstances, such as termination of the sponsoring organization's agreement or other circumstances defined by the State agency.
(5) The State agency may, at the request of the sponsoring organization, approve an agreement developed by the sponsoring organization.
(q) Following its reviews of institutions and facilities under §§ 226.6(m) and 226.23(h) conducted prior to July 1, 1988, the State agency shall report data on key elements of program operations on a form designated by FNS. These key elements include but are not limited to the program areas of meal requirements, determination of eligibility for free and reduced price meals, and the accuracy of reimbursement claims. These forms shall be submitted within 90 days of the completion of the data collection for the institutions except that, if the State has elected to conduct reviews of verification separate from its administrative reviews, the State shall retain data until all key elements have been reviewed and shall report all data for each institution on one form within 90 days of the completion of the data collection for all key elements for that institution. States shall ensure that all key element data for an institution is collected during a 12-month period.
(r)
WIC program information.
State agencies must provide information on the importance and benefits of the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and WIC income eligibility guidelines, to participating institutions. In addition, the State agency must ensure that:
(1) Participating family day care homes and sponsored child care centers receive this information, and periodic updates of this information, from their sponsoring organizations or the State agency; and
(2) The parents of enrolled children also receive this information.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 226.7
State agency responsibilities for financial management.
(a) This section prescribes standards of financial management systems in administering Program funds by the State agency and institutions.
(b)
Financial management system.
Each State agency must establish and maintain an acceptable financial management system, adhere to financial management standards and otherwise carry out financial management policies in accordance with 2 CFR parts 200, 400, 415, 416, 417, 418, and 421, and FNS Instruction 796-2, as applicable, and related FNS guidance to identify allowable Program costs and establish standards for institutional recordkeeping and reporting. The State agency must provide guidance on financial management requirements to each institution.
(1) State agencies must also have a system in place for:
(i) Annually reviewing at least 1 month's bank account activity of all sponsoring organizations against documents adequate to support that the financial transactions meet Program requirements. The State agency may expand the review to examine additional months of bank account activity if discrepancies are found. If the State agency identifies and is unable to verify any expenditures that have the appearance of violating Program requirements, or if the discrepancy is significant, the State agency must refer the sponsoring organization's bank account activity to the appropriate State authorities.
(ii) Annually reviewing actual expenditures reported of Program funds and the amount of meal reimbursement funds retained from centers, if any, for administrative costs for all sponsoring organizations of unaffiliated centers. State agencies must reconcile reported expenditures with Program payments to ensure that funds are fully accounted for, and use the reported actual expenditures as the basis for selecting a sample of expenditures for validation. If the State agency identifies and is unable to verify any expenditures that have the appearance of violating Program requirements, the State agency must refer the sponsoring organization's bank account activity to the appropriate State authorities.
(iii) Monitoring and reviewing the institutions' documentation of their nonprofit status to ensure that all Program reimbursement funds are used solely for the conduct of the food service operation or to improve food service operations, principally for the benefit of children or adult participants.
(2) The financial management system standards for institutional recordkeeping and reporting must:
(i) Prohibit claiming reimbursement for meals provided by a child or an adult participant's family, except as authorized at §§ 226.18(e) and 226.20(b)(2), (g)(1)(ii), and (g)(2)(ii); and
(ii) Allow the cost of meals served to adults who perform necessary food service labor under the Program, except in day care homes.
(c)
Management evaluations and audits.
State agencies shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to institutions and facilities) of all operations of the State agency under the Program and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits (including visits to institutions and facilities) of all operations of the State agency under the Program. Within 60 calendar days of receipt of each management evaluation report, the State agency shall submit to FNSRO a written plan for correcting serious deficiencies, including specific timeframes for accomplishing corrective actions and initiating follow-up efforts. If a State agency makes a showing of good cause, however, FNS may allow more than 60 days in which to submit a plan. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds, upon request by FNS or OIG. OIG shall also have the right to make audits of the records and operation of any institution.
(d)
Reports.
Each State agency shall submit to FNS the final Report of the Child and Adult Care Food Program (FNS 44) for each month which shall be limited to claims submitted in accordance with § 226.10(e) and which shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report.
States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State agency's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary. Adjustments shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. A final Financial Status Report for each fiscal year shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year. FNS shall not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid Program obligations reported later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.
(e)
Annual plan.
Each State shall submit to the Secretary for approval by August 15 of each year an annual plan for the use of State administrative expense funds, including a staff formula for State personnel.
(f)
Rate assignment.
Each State agency must require institutions (other than emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and sponsoring organizations of emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, or day care homes) to submit, not less frequently than annually, information necessary to assign rates of reimbursement as outlined in § 226.9.
(g)
Budget approval.
The State agency must review institution budgets and must limit allowable administrative claims by each sponsoring organization to the administrative costs approved in its budget, except as provided in this section. The budget must demonstrate the institution's ability to manage Program funds in accordance with this part, FNS Instruction 796-2, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars. Sponsoring organizations must submit an administrative budget to the State agency annually, and independent centers must submit budgets as frequently as required by the State agency. Budget levels may be adjusted to reflect changes in Program activities. If the institution does not intend to use non-CACFP funds to support any required CACFP functions, the institution's budget must identify a source of non-Program funds that could be used to pay overclaims or other unallowable costs. If the institution intends to use any non-Program resources to meet CACFP requirements, these non-Program funds should be accounted for in the institution's budget, and the institution's budget must identify a source of non-Program funds that could be used to pay overclaims or other unallowable costs.
(1) For sponsoring organizations of centers, the State agency is prohibited from approving the sponsoring organization's administrative budget, or any amendments to the budget, if the administrative budget shows the Program will be charged for administrative costs in excess of 15 percent of the meal reimbursements estimated to be earned during the budget year. However, the State agency may waive this limit if the sponsoring organization provides justification that it requires Program funds in excess of 15 percent to pay its administrative costs and if the State agency is convinced that the institution will have adequate funding to provide meals meeting the requirements of § 226.20. The State agency must document all waiver approvals and denials in writing and provide a copy of all such letters to the appropriate FNSRO.
(2) For sponsoring organizations of day care homes seeking to carry over administrative funds, as described in § 226.12(a)(3), the State agency must require the budget to include an estimate of the requested administrative fund carryover amount and a description of the purpose for which those funds would be obligated or expended by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which they were received. In approving a carryover request, State
agencies must take into consideration whether the sponsoring organization has a financial management system that meets Program requirements and is capable of controlling the custody, documentation, and disbursement of carryover funds. As soon as possible after fiscal year close-out, the State agency must require sponsoring organizations carrying over administrative funds to submit an amended budget for State agency review and approval. The amended budget must identify the amount of administrative funds actually carried over and describe the purpose for which the carry-over funds have been or will be used.
(h)
Start-up and expansion payments.
Each State agency shall establish procedures for evaluating requests for start-up and expansion payments, issuing these payments to eligible sponsoring organizations, and monitoring the use of these payments.
(i)
Advance payments.
Each State agency shall establish procedures for issuing advance payments by the first day of each month and comparing these payments with earned reimbursement on a monthly basis. The State agency shall maintain on file a statement of the State's law and policy governing the use of interest earned on advanced funds by sponsors, institutions, child care facilities and adult day care facilities.
(j)
Recovery of overpayments.
Each State agency must establish procedures to recover outstanding start-up, expansion, and advance payments from institutions which, in the opinion of the State agency, will not be able to earn these payments. In addition, each State agency must establish procedures to recover administrative funds from sponsoring organizations of day care homes that are not properly payable under FNS Instruction 796-2, administrative funds that are in excess of the 10 percent maximum carryover amount, and carryover amounts that are not expended or obligated by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which they were received.
(k)
Claims processing.
Each State agency shall establish procedures for institutions to properly submit claims for reimbursement. Such procedures must include State agency edit checks, including but not limited to ensuring that payments are made only for approved meal types and that the number of meals for which reimbursement is provided does not exceed the product of the total enrollment times operating days times approved meal types. All valid claims shall be paid within 45 calendar days of receipt. Within 15 calendar days of receipt of any incomplete or incorrect claim which must be revised for payment, the State agency shall notify the institution as to why and how such claim must be revised. If the State agency disallows partial or full payment for a claim for reimbursement, it shall notify the institution which submitted the claim of its right to appeal under § 226.6(k). State agencies may permit disallowances to be appealed separately from claims for reimbursement.
(l)
Participation controls.
The State agency may establish control procedures to ensure that payment is not made for meals served to participants attending in excess of the authorized capacity of each independent center, adult day care facility or child care facility.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 226.8
Audits.
(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and institution levels must be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, Appendices X and XI, Data Collection Form and Compliance Supplement, respectively and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400, 415 and 416. State agencies must establish audit policy for for-profit institutions. However, the audit policy established by the State agency must not conflict with the authority of the State agency or the Department to perform, or cause to be performed, audits, reviews, agreed-upon procedures engagements, or other monitoring activities.
(b) The funds provided to the State agency under § 226.4(j) may be made available to institutions to fund a portion of organization-wide audits made
in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. The funds provided to an institution for an organization-wide audit must be determined in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(c) Funds provided under § 226.4(j) may be used by the State agency to conduct program-specific audits of institutions not subject to organization-wide audits, or for which the State agency considers program specific audits to be needed. The State agency may use any funds remaining after all required program-specific audits have been performed to conduct administrative reviews or agreed-upon procedures engagements of institutions.
(d) Funds provided under § 226.4(j) may only be obligated during the fiscal year for which those funds are allocated. If funds provided under § 226.4(i) are not sufficient to meet the requirements of this section, the State agency may then use available State administrative expense funds to conduct audits, provided that the State agency is arranging for the audits and has not passed the responsibility down to the institution.
(e)
Full use of Federal funds.
States and State agencies must support the full use of Federal funds provided to State agencies under 226.4(j) of this part to support State audit activities, and exclude such funds from State budget restrictions or limitations, including hiring freezes, work furloughs, and travel restrictions.
(f) In conducting management evaluations, reviews, or audits in a fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard an overpayment if the overpayment does not exceed $600. A State agency may establish, through State law, regulation or procedure, an alternate disregard threshold that does not exceed $600. This disregard may be made once per each management evaluation, review, or audit per Program within a fiscal year. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
(g) While OIG shall rely to the fullest extent feasible upon State sponsored audits, OIG may, whenever it considers necessary:
(1) Make audits on a statewide basis;
(2) Perform on-site test audits;
(3) Review audit reports and related working papers of audits performed by or for State agencies.
(h) State agencies are not required to provide a hearing to an institution for State actions taken on the basis of a Federal audit determination. If a State agency does not provide a hearing in such situations, FNS will provide a hearing, upon request, in accordance with procedures set forth in § 226.6(k).
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 8580, Mar. 4, 1985; 51 FR 4295, Feb. 4, 1986; 52 FR 5526, Feb. 25, 1987; 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 67 FR 43490, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53543, Sept. 1, 2004; 70 FR 43261, July 27, 2005; 71 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2006; 71 FR 30563, May 30, 2006; 72 FR 41607, July 31, 2007; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart D—Payment Provisions
§ 226.9
Assignment of rates of reimbursement for centers.
(a) The State agency shall assign rates of reimbursement, not less frequently than annually, on the basis of family-size and income information reported by each institution. However, no rates should be assigned for emergency shelters and at-risk afterschool care centers. Assigned rates of reimbursement may be changed more frequently than annually if warranted by changes in family-size and income information. Assigned rates of reimbursement shall be adjusted annually to reflect changes in the national average payment rates.
(b) Except for emergency shelters and at-risk afterschool care centers, the State agency must either:
(1) Require that institutions submit each month's figures for meals served daily to participants from families meeting the eligibility standards for free meals, to participants from families meeting the eligibility standards for reduced-price meals, and to participants from families not meeting such guidelines; or
(2) Establish claiming percentages, not less frequently than annually, for each institution on the basis of the
number of enrolled participants eligible for free, reduced-price, and paid meals, except that children who only participate in emergency shelters or the at-risk afterschool care component of the Program must not be considered to be enrolled participants for the purpose of establishing claiming percentages; or
(3) Determine a blended per-meal rate of reimbursement, not less frequently than annually, by adding the products obtained by multiplying the applicable national average payment rate of reimbursement for each category (free, reduced-price, paid) by the claiming percentage for that category.
(c) States have two methods of reimbursing institutions. The method chosen by the State agency must be applied to all institutions participating in the Program in that State. These methods are:
(1) Meals times rates payment, which involves reimbursing an institution for meals served at the assigned rate for each meal. This method entails no comparison to the costs incurred by the institution for the meal service; and,
(2) Meals times rates or actual costs, whichever is the lesser, which involves reimbursing an institution for meals served at the assigned rate for each meal or at the level of the costs actually incurred by the institution for the meal service. This method does entail a comparison of the costs incurred to the meal rates, with the costs being a limiting factor on the level of reimbursement an institution may receive.
(d) In those States where the State agency has chosen the option to implement a meals times rates payment system State-wide, the State agency may elect to pay an institution's final claim for reimbursement for the fiscal year at higher reassigned rates of reimbursement for lunches and suppers; however, the reassigned rates may not exceed the applicable maximum rates of reimbursement established under § 210.11(b) of the National School Lunch Program regulations. In those States which use the method of comparing meals times rates or actual costs, whichever is lesser, the total payments made to an institution shall not exceed the total net costs incurred for the fiscal year.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 21530, May 13, 1983; 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 71 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2006; 72 FR 41607, July 31, 2007; 75 FR 16327, Apr. 1, 2010]
§ 226.10
Program payment procedures.
(a) If a State agency elects to issue advance payments to all or some of the participating institutions in the State, it must provide such advances no later than the first day of each month to those eligible institutions electing to receive advances in accordance with § 226.6 (f)(3)(iv)(F). Advance payments shall equal the full level of claims estimated by the State agency to be submitted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, considering prior reimbursement claims and other information such as fluctuations in enrollment. The institution may decline to receive all or any part of the advance.
(b) For each fiscal year, the amount of payment made, including funds advanced to an institution, shall not exceed the amount of valid reimbursement claimed by that institution. To ensure that institutions do not receive excessive advance payments, the State agency shall observe the following procedures:
(1) After three advance payments have been made to an institution, the State agency shall ensure that no subsequent advance is made until the State agency has validated the institution's claim for reimbursement for the third month prior to the month for which the next advance is to be paid.
(2) If the State agency has audit or monitoring evidence of extensive program deficiencies or other reasons to believe that an institution will not be able to submit a valid claim for reimbursement, advance payments shall be withheld until the claim is received or the deficiencies are corrected.
(3) Each month the State agency shall compare incoming claims against advances to ensure that the level of funds authorized under paragraph (a) of this section does not exceed the claims for reimbursement received from the institution. Whenever this process indicates that excessive advances have been authorized, the State agency shall
either demand full repayment or adjust subsequent payments, including advances.
(4) If, as a result of year end reconciliation as required by 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable, the State agency determines that reimbursement earned by an institution during a fiscal year is less than the amount paid, including funds advanced to that institution, the State agency shall demand repayment of the outstanding balance or adjust subsequent payments.
(c) Claims for Reimbursement must report information in accordance with the financial management system established by the State agency, and in sufficient detail to justify the reimbursement claimed and to enable the State agency to provide the final Report of the Child and Adult Care Food Program (FNS 44) required under § 226.7(d). In submitting a Claim for Reimbursement, each institution must certify that the claim is correct and that records are available to support that claim.
(1) Prior to submitting its consolidated monthly claim to the State agency, each sponsoring organization must perform edit checks on each facility's meal claim. At a minimum, the sponsoring organization's edit checks must:
(i) Verify that each facility has been approved to serve the types of meals claimed; and
(ii) Compare the number of children or eligible adult participants enrolled for care at each facility, multiplied by the number of days on which the facility is approved to serve meals, to the total number of meals claimed by the facility for that month. Discrepancies between the facility's meal claim and its enrollment must be subjected to more thorough review to determine if the claim is accurate.
(2) Sponsoring organizations of unaffiliated centers must make available to the State agency an annual report detailing actual expenditures of Program funds and the amount of meal reimbursement funds retained from centers, if any, for administrative costs for the year to which the claims apply. The report must use the same cost categories as the approved annual budget submitted by the sponsoring organization.
(3) Sponsoring organizations of for-profit child care centers or for-profit outside-school-hours care centers must submit the number and percentage of children in care—enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less—that documents that at least 25 percent are eligible for free or reduced-price meals or are title XX beneficiaries. Sponsoring organizations must not submit a claim for any for-profit center in which less than 25 percent of the children in care—enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less—during the claim month were eligible for free or reduced-price meals or were title XX beneficiaries.
(4) For each month they claim reimbursement, independent for-profit child care centers and independent for-profit outside-school-hours care centers must submit the number and percentage of children in care—enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less—that documents at least 25 percent are eligible for free or reduced-price meals or are title XX beneficiaries. However, children who only receive at-risk afterschool meals or snacks must not be considered in determining this eligibility.
(5) For each month they claim reimbursement, independent for-profit adult day care centers must submit the percentages of enrolled adult participants receiving title XIX or title XX benefits for months in which not less than 25 percent of enrolled adult participants were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries. For the claim, sponsoring organizations of adult day care centers must submit the percentage of enrolled adult participants receiving title XIX or title XX benefits for each center. Sponsoring organizations must not submit claims for adult day care centers for months in which less than 25 percent of enrolled adult participants were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries.
(d) All records to support the claim shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of submission of the final claim for the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the
end of the three year period as long as may be required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit. All accounts and records pertaining to the Program shall be made available, upon request, to representatives of the State agency, of the Department, and of the U.S. Government Accountability Office for audit or review, at a reasonable time and place.
(e) Unless otherwise approved by FNS, the Claim for Reimbursement for any month shall cover only Program operations for that month except if the first or last month of Program operations in any fiscal year contains 10 operating days or less, such month may be added to the Claim for Reimbursement for the appropriate adjacent month; however, Claims for Reimbursement may not combine operations occurring in two fiscal years. A final Claim for Reimbursement shall be postmarked and/or submitted to the State agency not later than 60 days following the last day of the full month covered by the claim. State agencies may establish shorter deadlines at their discretion. Claims not postmarked and/or submitted within 60 days shall not be paid with Program funds unless FNS determines that an exception should be granted. The State agency shall promptly take corrective action with respect to any Claim for Reimbursement as determined necessary through its claim review process or otherwise. In taking such corrective action, State agencies may make upward adjustments in Program funds claimed on claims filed within the 60 day deadline if such adjustments are completed within 90 days of the last day of the claim month and are reflected in the final Report of the Child and Adult Care Food Programs (FNS-44) for the claim month which is required under 226.7(d). Upward adjustments in Program funds claimed which are not reflected in the final FNS-44 for the claim month shall not be made unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments in Program funds claimed shall always be made without FNS authorization regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary.
(f) If, based on the results of audits, investigations, or other reviews, a State agency has reason to believe that an institution, child or adult care facility, or food service management company has engaged in unlawful acts with respect to Program operations, the evidence found in audits, investigations, or other reviews is a basis for non-payment of claims for reimbursement.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended by Amdt. 5, 49 FR 18988, May 4, 1984; 50 FR 26975, July 1, 1985; 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 62 FR 23618, May 1, 1997; 69 FR 53543, Sept. 1, 2004; 70 FR 43261, July 27, 2005; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 41607, July 31, 2007; 75 FR 16327, Apr. 1, 2010; 76 FR 22798, Apr. 25, 2011; 76 FR 34571, June 13, 2011; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57855, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.11
Program payments for centers.
(a)
Requirement for agreements.
Payments must be made only to institutions operating under an agreement with the State agency for the meal types specified in the agreement served at approved child care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, adult day care centers, emergency shelters, and outside-school-hours care centers. A State agency may develop a policy under which centers are reimbursed for meals served in accordance with provisions of the Program in the calendar month preceding the calendar month in which the agreement is executed, or the State agency may develop a policy under which centers receive reimbursement only for meals served in approved centers on and after the effective date of the Program agreement. If the State agency's policy permits centers to earn reimbursement for meals served prior to the execution of a Program agreement, program reimbursement must not be received by the center until the agreement is executed.
(b)
Institutions
—(1)
Edit checks of sponsored centers.
Prior to submitting its consolidated monthly claim to the State agency, each sponsoring organization must conduct reasonable edit checks on the sponsored centers' meal claims, which at a minimum, must include those edit checks specified at § 226.10(c).
(2)
Child and adult care institutions.
Each child care institution and each adult day care institution must report each month to the State agency the
total number of Program meals, by type (breakfasts, lunches, suppers, and snacks), served to children or adult participants, respectively, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3)
For-profit center exception.
For-profit child care centers, including for-profit at-risk afterschool care centers and outside-school-hours care centers, must provide the reports required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section only for calendar months during which at least 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were eligible for free or reduced-price meals or were title XX beneficiaries. However, children who only receive at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals must not be considered in determining this eligibility. For-profit adult day care centers must provide the reports required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section only for calendar months during which at least 25 percent of enrolled adult participants were beneficiaries of title XIX, title XX, or a combination of titles XIX and XX.
(c)
Reimbursement
—(1)
Child and adult care institutions.
Each State agency must base reimbursement to each approved child care center and adult day care center on actual time of service meal counts of meals, by type, served to children or adult participants multiplied by the assigned rates of reimbursement, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. In the case of a sponsoring organization of family day care homes, each State agency must base reimbursement to each approved family day care home on daily meal counts recorded by the provider.
(2)
At-risk afterschool care institutions.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, State agencies must base reimbursement to each at-risk afterschool care center on the number of at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals that are served to children.
(3)
Emergency shelters.
Each State agency must base reimbursement to each emergency shelter on the number of meals served to children multiplied by the free rates for meals and snacks.
(4)
For-profit center exception.
For-profit child care centers, including for-profit at-risk and outside-school-hours care centers, must be reimbursed only for the calendar months during which at least 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were eligible for free or reduced-price meals or were title XX beneficiaries. However, children who only receive at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals must not be considered in determining this eligibility. For-profit adult day care centers must be reimbursed only for the calendar months during which at least 25 percent of enrolled adult participants were beneficiaries of title XIX, title XX, or a combination of titles XIX and XX.
(5)
Computation of reimbursement.
Except for at-risk afterschool care centers and emergency shelters, the State agency must compute reimbursement by either:
(i)
Actual counts.
Base reimbursement to institutions on actual time of service counts of meals served, and multiply the number of meals, by type, served to participants that are eligible to receive free meals, participants eligible to receive reduced-price meals, and participants not eligible for free or reduced-price meals by the applicable national average payment rate; or
(ii)
Claiming percentages.
Apply the applicable claiming percentage or percentages to the total number of meals, by type, served to participants and multiply the product or products by the assigned rate of reimbursement for each meal type; or
(iii)
Blended rates.
Multiply the assigned blended per meal rate of reimbursement by the total number of meals, by type, served to participants.
(d)
Limits on reimbursement.
If the State agency elects to reimburse its institutions according to the lesser of rates or actual costs, total Program payments to an institution during any fiscal year, including any cash payments in lieu of commodities, shall not exceed allowable Program operating and administrative costs, less income to the Program. The State agency may limit payments for administrative costs to the amount approved in the
annual administrative budget of the institution. The State agency may prohibit an institution from using payments for operating costs to pay for administrative expenses.
(e)
Institution recordkeeping.
Each institution shall maintain records as prescribed by the State agency's financial management system.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 21530, May 13, 1983; 52 FR 36907, Oct. 2, 1987; 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; 62 FR 23618, May 1, 1997; 69 FR 53543, Sept. 1, 2004; 70 FR 43262, July 27, 2005; 71 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2006; 72 FR 41607, July 31, 2007; 75 FR 16327, Apr. 1, 2010; 76 FR 34571, June 13, 2011]
§ 226.12
Administrative payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.
(a)
General.
Sponsoring organizations of day care homes receive payments for administrative costs, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Sponsoring organizations will receive reimbursement for the administrative costs of the sponsoring organization in an amount that is not less than the product obtained each month by multiplying:
(i) The number of day care homes of the sponsoring organization submitting a claim for reimbursement during the month, by
(ii) The appropriate administrative rates announced annually in the
Federal Register
.
(2) FNS determines administrative reimbursement by annually adjusting the following base administrative rates, as set forth in § 226.4(i):
(i) Initial 50 day care homes, 42 dollars;
(ii) Next 150 day care homes, 32 dollars;
(iii) Next 800 day care homes, 25 dollars;
(iv) Additional day care homes, 22 dollars.
(3) With State agency approval, a sponsoring organization may carry over a maximum of 10 percent of administrative funds received under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for use in the following fiscal year. If any carryover funds are not obligated or expended in the following fiscal year, they must be returned to the State agency, as described in § 226.7(j).
(4) State agencies must recover any administrative funds not properly payable, as described in FNS Instruction 796-2.
(b)
Start-up and expansion payments.
(1) Prospective sponsoring organizations of day care homes, participating sponsoring organizations of child care centers or outside-school-hours care centers, independent centers, and participating sponsoring organizations of less than 50 homes which meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be entitled to receive start-up payments to develop or expand successful Program operations in day care homes. Participating sponsoring organizations of day care homes which meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be entitled to receive expansion payments to initiate or expand Program operations in day care homes in low-income or rural areas. The State agency shall approve start-up payments only once for any eligible sponsoring organization, but may approve expansion payments for any eligible sponsoring organization more than once, provided that: the request must be for expansion into an area(s) other than that specified in their initial or prior request; and 12 months has elapsed since the sponsoring organization has satisfied all obligations under its initial or prior expansion agreement. Eligible sponsoring organizations which have received start-up payments shall be eligible to apply for expansion payments at a date no earlier than 12 months after it has satisfied all its obligations under its start-up agreement with the State agency.
(2) Sponsoring organizations which apply for start-up or expansion payments shall evidence:
(i) Public status or tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(ii) An organizational history of managing funds and ongoing activities (i.e., administering public or private programs);
(iii) An acceptable and realistic plan for recruiting day care homes to participate in the Program (such as the method of contacting providers), which may be based on estimates of the number of day care homes to be recruited
and information supporting their existence, and in the case of sponsoring organizations applying for expansion payments, documentation that the day care homes to be recruited are located in low-income or rural areas; and
(iv) An acceptable preliminary sponsoring organization management plan including, but not limited to, plans for preoperational visits and training.
(3) The State agency shall deny start-up and expansion payments to applicant sponsoring organizations which fail to meet the criteria of paragraph (b)(2) of this section or which have not been financially responsible in the operation of other programs funded by Federal, State, or local governments. The State agency shall notify the sponsoring organization of the reasons for denial and allow the sponsoring organization full opportunity to submit evidence on appeal as provided for in § 226.6(k). Any sponsoring organization applying for start-up or expansion funds shall be notified of approval or disapproval by the State agency in writing within 30 calendar days of filing a complete and correct application. If a sponsoring organization submits an incomplete application, the State agency shall notify the sponsoring organization within 15 calendar days of receipt of the application and shall provide technical assistance, if necessary, to the sponsoring organization for the purpose of completing its application.
(4) Sponsoring organizations which apply for and meet the criteria for start-up or expansion payments shall enter into an agreement with the State agency. The agreement shall specify:
(i) Activities which the sponsoring organization will undertake to initiate or expand Program operations in day care homes;
(ii) The amount of start-up or expansion payments to be issued to the sponsoring organization, together with an administrative budget detailing the costs which the sponsoring organization shall incur, document, and claim;
(iii) The time allotted to the sponsoring organization for the initiation or expansion of Program operations in family day care homes;
(iv) The responsibility of the applicant sponsoring organization to repay, upon demand by the State agency, start-up or expansion payments not expended in accordance with the agreement.
(5) Upon execution of the agreement, the State agency shall issue a start-up or expansion payment to the sponsoring organization in an amount equal to not less than one, but not more than two month's anticipated administrative reimbursement to the sponsoring organization as determined by the State agency. However, no sponsoring organization may receive start-up or expansion payments for more than 50 day care homes. Eligible sponsoring organizations with fewer than 50 homes under their jurisdiction at the time of application for start-up payments may receive such payments for up to 50 homes, less the number of homes under their jurisdiction. Eligible sponsoring organizations applying for expansion funds may receive at a maximum such payments for up to 50 homes at the currently assigned administrative payment for the first 50 homes. In determining the amount of start-up or expansion payments to be made to a sponsoring organization, the State agency shall consider the anticipated level of start-up or expansion costs to be incurred by the sponsoring organization and alternate sources of funds available to the sponsoring organization.
(6) Upon expiration of the time allotted to the sponsoring organization for initiating or expanding Program operations in day care homes, the State agency shall obtain and review documentation of activities performed and costs incurred by the sponsoring organization under the terms of the start-up or expansion agreement. If the sponsoring organization has not made every reasonable effort to carry out the activities specified in the agreement, the State agency shall demand repayment of all or part of the payment. The sponsoring organization may retain start-up or expansion payments for all day
care homes which initiate Program operations. However, no sponsoring organization may retain any start-up or expansion payments in excess of its actual costs for the expenditures specified in the agreement.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982; 47 FR 46072, Oct. 15, 1982, as amended at 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; 63 FR 9728, Feb. 26, 1998; 67 FR 43490, June 27, 2002; 88 FR 57856, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.13
Food service payments to sponsoring organizations for day care homes.
(a) Payments will be made only to sponsoring organizations operating under an agreement with the State agency for the meal types specified in the agreement served to enrolled nonresident children and eligible enrolled children of day care home providers, at approved day care homes. Each State agency must base reimbursement to each approved day care home on daily meal counts recorded by the provider.
(b) Each sponsoring organization shall report each month to the State agency the total number of meals, by type (breakfasts, lunches, suppers, and snacks) and by category (tier I and tier II), served to children enrolled in approved day care homes. Prior to submitting its consolidated monthly claim to the State agency, each sponsoring organization must conduct reasonable edit checks on the day care homes' meal claims which, at a minimum, include those edit checks specified at § 226.10(c).
(c) Each sponsoring organization shall receive payment for meals served to children enrolled in approved day care homes at the tier I and tier II reimbursement rates, as applicable based on daily meal counts taken in the home, and as established by law and adjusted in accordance with § 226.4. However, the rates for lunches and suppers shall be reduced by the value of commodities established under § 226.5(b) for all sponsoring organizations for day care homes which have elected to receive commodities. For tier I day care homes, the full amount of food service payments shall be disbursed to each day care home on the basis of the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children. For tier II day care homes, the full amount of food service payments shall be disbursed to each day care home on the basis of the number of meals served to enrolled children by type, and by category (tier I and tier II) as determined in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. However, the sponsoring organization may withhold from Program payments to each home an amount equal to costs incurred for the provision of Program foodstuffs or meals by the sponsoring organization on behalf of the home and with the home provider's written consent.
(d) As applicable, each sponsoring organization for day care homes shall:
(1) Require that tier I day care homes submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.
(2) Require that tier II day care homes in which the provider elects not to have the sponsoring organization identify enrolled children who are eligible for free or reduced price meals submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.
(3) Not more frequently than annually, select one of the methods described in paragraphs (d)(3) (i)-(iii) of this section for all tier II day care homes in which the provider elects to have the sponsoring organization identify enrolled children who are eligible for free or reduced price meals. In such homes, the sponsoring organization shall either:
(i) Require that such day care homes submit the number and types of meals served each day to each enrolled child by name. The sponsoring organization shall use the information submitted by the homes to produce an actual count, by type and by category (tier I and tier II), of meals served in the homes; or
(ii) Establish claiming percentages, not less frequently than semiannually, for each such day care home on the basis of one month's data concerning the number of enrolled children determined eligible for free or reduced-price meals. Sponsoring organizations shall obtain one month's data by collecting either enrollment lists (which show the name of each enrolled child in the day care home), or attendance lists (which show, by days or meals, the rate of participation of each enrolled child in the day care home). The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to
recalculate the claiming percentage for any of its day care homes before the required semiannual calculation if the State agency has reason to believe that a home's percentage of income-eligible children has changed significantly or was incorrectly established in the previous calculation. Under this system, day care homes shall be required to submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children; or
(iii) Determine a blended per-meal rate of reimbursement, not less frequently than semiannually, for each such day care home by adding the products obtained by multiplying the applicable rates of reimbursement for each category (tier I and tier II) by the claiming percentage for that category, as established in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section. The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to recalculate the blended rate for any of its day care homes before the required semiannual calculation if the State agency has reason to believe that a home's percentage of income-eligible children has changed significantly or was incorrectly established in the previous calculation. Under this system, day care homes shall be required to submit the number of meals served, by type, to enrolled children.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 903, Jan. 7, 1997; 62 FR 5519, Feb. 6, 1997; 63 FR 9105, Feb. 24, 1998; 69 FR 53544, Sept. 1, 2004; 72 FR 41603, July 31, 2007; 88 FR 57856, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.14
Claims against institutions.
(a) State agencies shall disallow any portion of a claim for reimbursement and recover any payment to an institution not properly payable under this part. State agencies may consider claims for reimbursement not properly payable if an institution does not comply with the recordkeeping requirements contained in this part. The State agency may permit institutions to pay overclaims over a period of one or more years. However, the State agency must assess interest beginning with the date stipulated in the State agency's demand letter, or 30 days after the date of the demand letter, whichever date is later. Further, when an institution requests and is granted an administrative review of the State agency's overpayment demand, the State agency is prohibited from taking action to collect or offset the overpayment until the administrative review is concluded. The State agency must maintain searchable records of funds recovery activities. If the State agency determines that a sponsoring organization of centers has spent more than 15 percent of its meal reimbursements for a budget year for administrative costs (or more than any higher limit established pursuant to a waiver granted under § 226.7(g)), the State agency must take appropriate fiscal action. In addition, except with approval from the appropriate FNSRO, State agencies shall consider claims for reimbursement not payable when an institution fails to comply with the recordkeeping requirements that pertain to records directly supporting claims for reimbursement. Records that directly support claims for reimbursement include, but are not limited to, daily meal counts, menu records, and enrollment and attendance records, as required by § 226.15(e). State agencies shall assert overclaims against any sponsoring organization of day care homes which misclassifies a day care home as a tier I day care home unless the misclassification is determined to be inadvertent under guidance issued by FNS. However, the State agency shall notify the institution of the reasons for any disallowance or demand for repayment, and allow the institution full opportunity to submit evidence on appeal as provided for in § 226.6(k). Miminum State agency collection procedures for unearned payments shall include:
(1) Written demand to the institution for the return of improper payments; (2) if, after 30 calendar days, the institution fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, a second written demand for the return of improper payments sent by certified mail return receipt requested; and (3) if, after 60 calendar days, the institution fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, the State agency shall refer the claim against the institution to appropriate State or Federal authorities for pursuit of legal remedies.
(b) In the event that the State agency finds that an institution which prepares its own meals is failing to meet the meal requirements of § 226.20, the State agency need not disallow payment or collect an overpayment arising out of such failure if the institution takes such other action as, in the opinion of the State agency, will have a corrective effect. However, the State agency shall not disregard any overpayments or waive collection action arising from the findings of Federal audits.
(c) If FNS does not concur with the State agency's action in paying an institution or in failing to collect an overpayment, FNS shall notify the State agency of its intention to assert a claim against the State agency. In all such cases, the State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence concerning the action taken. The State agency shall be liable to FNS for failure to collect an overpayment, unless FNS determines that the State agency has conformed with this part in issuing the payment and has exerted reasonable efforts to recover the improper payment.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982; 47 FR 46072, Oct. 15, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 8580, Mar. 4, 1985; 53 FR 52590, Dec. 28, 1988; 62 FR 903, Jan. 7, 1997; 64 FR 72260, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 43490, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53544, Sept. 1, 2004; 76 FR 34571, June 13, 2011]

# Subpart E—Operational Provisions
§ 226.15
Institution provisions.
(a)
Tax exempt status.
Except for for-profit centers and sponsoring organizations of such centers, institutions must be public, or have tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b)
New applications and renewals.
Each new institution must submit to the State agency an application with all information required for its approval, as set forth in §§ 226.6(b)(1) and 226.6(f). This information must demonstrate that a new institution has the administrative and financial capability to operate the Program, as described in the performance standards set forth in § 226.6(b)(1)(xviii). Renewing institutions must annually certify that they are capable of operating the Program, as set forth in § 226.6(b)(2).
(c)
Responsibility.
Each institution shall accept final administrative and financial responsibility for Program operations. No institution may contract out for management of the Program.
(d)
Staffing.
Each institution shall provide adequate supervisory and operational personnel for management and monitoring of the Program.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
Each institution shall establish procedures to collect and maintain all program records required under this part, as well as any records required by the State agency. Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement for meals served during the period covered by the records in question and for the denial of reimbursement for costs associated with such records. At a minimum, the following records shall be collected and maintained:
(1) Copies of all applications and supporting documents submitted to the State agency;
(2) Documentation of the enrollment of each participant at centers (except for outside-school-hours care centers, emergency shelters, and at-risk afterschool care centers). All types of centers, except for emergency shelters and at-risk afterschool care centers, must maintain information used to determine eligibility for free or reduced-price meals in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1). For child care centers, such documentation of enrollment must be updated annually, signed by a parent or legal guardian, and include information on each child's normal days and hours of care and the meals normally received while in care.
(3) Documentation of: The enrollment of each child at day care homes; information used to determine the eligibility of enrolled providers' children for free or reduced price meals; information used to classify day care homes as tier I day care homes, including official source documentation obtained from school officials when the classification is based on school data; and information used to determine the eligibility of enrolled children in tier II day care homes that have been identified as eligible for free or reduced price meals
in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1). Such documentation of enrollment must be updated annually, signed by a parent or legal guardian, and include information on each child's normal days and hours of care and the meals normally received while in care.
(4) Daily records indicating the number of participants in attendance and the daily meal counts, by type (breakfast, lunch, supper, and snacks), served to family day care home participants, or the time of service meal counts, by type (breakfast, lunch, supper, and snacks), served to center participants. State agencies may require family day care homes to record meal counts at the time of meal service only in day care homes providing care for more than 12 children in a single day, or in day care homes that have been found seriously deficient due to problems with their meal counts and claims.
(5) Except at day care homes, daily records indicating the number of meals, by type, served to adults performing labor necessary to the food service;
(6) Copies of invoices, receipts, or other records required by the State agency financial management instruction to document:
(i) Administrative costs claimed by the institution;
(ii) Operating costs claimed by the institution except sponsoring organizations of day care homes; and
(iii) Income to the Program.
(7) Copies of all claims for reimbursement submitted to the State agency;
(8) Receipts for all Program payments received from the State agency;
(9) If applicable, information concerning the dates and amounts of disbursement to each child care facility or adult day care facility under its auspices;
(10) Copies of menus, and any other food service records required by the State agency;
(11) If applicable, information concerning the location and dates of each child care or adult day care facility review, any problems noted, and the corrective action prescribed and effected;
(12) Information on training session date(s) and location(s), as well as topics presented and names of participants; and
(13) Documentation of nonprofit food service to ensure that all Program reimbursement funds are used: (i) Solely for the conduct of the food service operation; or (ii) to improve such food service operations, principally for the benefit of the enrolled participants.
(14) For sponsoring organizations, records documenting the attendance at annual training of each staff member with monitoring responsibilities. Training must include instruction, appropriate to the level of staff experience and duties, on the Program's meal patterns, meal counts, claims submission and claim review procedures, recordkeeping requirements, and an explanation of the Program's reimbursement system.
(f)
Day care home classifications.
Each sponsoring organization of day care homes shall determine which of the day care homes under its sponsorship are eligible as tier I day care homes. A sponsoring organization may use current school or census data provided by the State agency or free and reduced price applications collected from day care home providers in making a determination for each day care home. When using school or census data for making tier I day care home determinations, a sponsoring organization shall first consult school data, except in cases in which busing or other bases of attendance, such as magnet or charter schools, result in school data not being representative of an attendance area's household income levels. In these cases, census data should generally be consulted instead of school data. A sponsoring organization may also use census data if, after reasonable efforts are made, as defined by the State agency, the sponsoring organization is unable to obtain local school attendance area information. A sponsoring organization may also consult census data after having consulted school data which fails to support a tier I day care home determination for rural areas with geographically large school attendance areas, for other areas in which a school's free and reduced price enrollment is above 40 percent, or in other cases with State agency approval. However, if a sponsoring organization believes that a segment of an otherwise eligible school attendance
area is above the criteria for free or reduced price meals, then the sponsoring organization shall consult census data to determine whether the homes in that area qualify as tier I day care homes based on census data. If census data does not support a tier I classification, then the sponsoring organization shall reclassify homes in segments of such areas as tier II day care homes unless the individual providers can document tier I eligibility on the basis of their household income. When making tier I day care home determinations based on school data, a sponsoring organization shall use attendance area information that it has obtained, or verified with appropriate school officials to be current, within the last school year. Determinations of a day care home's eligibility as a tier I day care home shall be valid for one year if based on a provider's household income, five years if based on school data, or until more current data are available if based on census data. However, a sponsoring organization, State agency, or FNS may change the determination if information becomes available indicating that a home is no longer in a qualified area. The State agency shall not routinely require annual redeterminations of the tiering status of tier I day care homes based on updated school data.
(g)
Area eligibility determinations for at-risk afterschool care centers.
Sponsoring organizations of at-risk afterschool care centers must provide information, as required by the State agency, which permits the State agency to determine whether the centers they sponsor are located in eligible areas. Such information may include the most recent free and reduced-price school data available pursuant to § 226.6(f)(1)(ix) and attendance area information that it has obtained, or verified with the appropriate school officials to be current, within the last school year.
(h)
Payment to employees.
No institution that is a sponsoring organization of family day care homes and that employs more than one person is permitted to base payment (including bonuses or gratuities) to its employees, contractors, or family day care home providers solely on the number of new family day care homes recruited for the sponsoring organization's Program.
(i)
Claims submission.
Each institution shall submit claims for reimbursement to the State agency in accordance with § 226.10.
(j)
Program agreement.
Each institution shall enter into a Program agreement with the State agency in accordance with § 226.6(b)(4).
(k)
Commodities.
Each institution receiving commodities shall ensure proper commodity utilization.
(l)
Special Milk Program.
No institution may participate in both the Child and Adult Care Food Program and the Special Milk Program at the same time.
(m)
Elderly feeding programs.
Institutions which are school food authorities (as defined in part 210 of this chapter) may use facilities, equipment and personnel supported by funds provided under this part to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
).
(n)
Regulations and guidance.
Each institution must comply with all regulations issued by FNS and the Department, all instructions and handbooks issued by FNS and the Department to clarify or explain existing regulations, and all regulations, instructions and handbooks issued by the State agency that are consistent with the provisions established in Program regulations.
(o)
Information on WIC.
Each institution (other than outside-school-hours care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, emergency shelters, and adult day care centers) must ensure that parents of enrolled children are provided with current information on the benefits and importance of the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and the eligibility requirements for WIC participation.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.15, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 226.16
Sponsoring organization provisions.
(a) Each sponsoring organization shall comply with all provisions of § 226.15.
(b) Each sponsoring organization must submit to the State agency with its application all information required for its approval, and the approval of the facilities under its jurisdiction, as set forth in §§ 226.6(b) and 226.6(f). The application must demonstrate that the institution has the administrative and financial capability to operate the Program in accordance with the Program regulations. In addition to the information required in §§ 226.6(b) and 226.6(f), the application must include:
(1) A sponsoring organization management plan and administrative budget, in accordance with §§ 226.6(b)(1)(iv), 226.6(b)(1)(v), 226.6(b)(2)(i), 226.6(f)(2)(i), and 226.7(g), which includes information sufficient to document the sponsoring organization's compliance with the performance standards set forth at § 226.6(b)(1)(xviii) and 226.6(b)(2)(vii). As part of its management plan, a sponsoring organization of day care homes must document that, to perform monitoring, it will employ the equivalent of one full-time staff person for each 50 to 150 day care homes it sponsors. As part of its management plan, a sponsoring organization of centers must document that, to perform monitoring, it will employ the equivalent of one full-time staff person for each 25 to 150 centers it sponsors. It is the State agency's responsibility to determine the appropriate level of staffing for monitoring for each sponsoring organization, consistent with these specified ranges and factors that the State agency will use to determine the appropriate level of monitoring staff for each sponsor. The monitoring staff equivalent may include the employee's time spent on scheduling, travel time, review time, follow-up activity, report writing, and activities related to the annual updating of children's enrollment forms. Sponsoring organizations that were participating in the Program on July 29, 2002, were to have submitted, no later than July 29, 2003, a management plan or plan amendment that meets the monitoring staffing requirement. For sponsoring organizations of centers, the portion of the administrative costs to be charged to the Program may not exceed 15 percent of the meal reimbursements estimated or actually earned during the budget year, unless the State agency grants a waiver in accordance with § 226.7(g). A sponsoring organization of centers must include in the administrative budget all administrative costs, whether incurred by the sponsoring organization or its sponsored centers. If at any point a sponsoring organization determines that the meal reimbursements estimated to be earned during the budget year will be lower than that estimated in its administrative budget, the sponsoring organization must amend its administrative budget to stay within the 15 percent limitation (or any higher limit established pursuant to a waiver granted under § 226.7(g)) or seek a waiver. Failure to do so will result in appropriate fiscal action in accordance with § 226.14(a).
(2) An application for participation, or renewal materials, for each facility accompanied by all necessary supporting documentation;
(3) Timely information concerning the eligibility status of facilities (such as licensing/approval actions);
(4) For sponsoring organizations applying for initial participation, if required by State law, regulation, or policy, a bond in the form prescribed by such law, regulation, or policy;
(5) A copy of the sponsoring organization's notice to parents, in a form and, to the maximum extent practicable, language easily understandable by the participant's parents or guardians. The notice must inform them of their facility's participation in CACFP, the Program's benefits, the name and telephone number of the sponsoring organization, and the name and telephone number of the State agency responsible for administration of CACFP;
(6) If the sponsoring organization chooses to establish procedures for determining a day care home seriously deficient that supplement the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section, a copy of those supplemental procedures. If the State agency has made the sponsoring organization responsible for the administrative review of a proposed termination of a day care home's
agreement for cause, pursuant to § 226.6(l)(1), a copy of the sponsoring organization's administrative review procedures. The sponsoring organization's supplemental serious deficiency and administrative review procedures must comply with paragraph (l) of this section and § 226.6(l);
(7) A copy of their outside employment policy. The policy must restrict other employment by employees that interferes with an employee's performance of Program-related duties and responsibilities, including outside employment that constitutes a real or apparent conflict of interest;
(8) For sponsoring organizations of day care homes, the name, mailing address, and date of birth of each provider; and
(9) For sponsoring organizations of unaffiliated centers, the name and mailing address of each center.
(c) Each sponsoring organization shall accept final administrative and financial responsibility for food service operations in all facilities under its jurisdiction.
(d) Each sponsoring organization must provide adequate supervisory and operational personnel for the effective management and monitoring of the program at all facilities it sponsors. Each sponsoring organization must employ monitoring staff sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. At a minimum, Program assistance must include:
(1) Pre-approval visits to each facility for which application is made to discuss Program benefits and verify that the proposed food service does not exceed the capability of the child care facility;
(2) Training on Program duties and responsibilities to key staff from all sponsored facilities prior to the beginning of Program operations. At a minimum, such training must include instruction, appropriate to the level of staff experience and duties, on the Program's meal patterns, meal counts, claims submission and review procedures, recordkeeping requirements, and reimbursement system. Attendance by key staff, as defined by the State agency, is mandatory;
(3) Additional mandatory training sessions, as defined by the State agency, for key staff from all sponsored facilities not less frequently than annually. At a minimum, this training must include instruction, appropriate to the level of staff experience and duties, on the Program's meal patterns, meal counts, claims submission and review procedures, recordkeeping requirements, and reimbursement system.
(4)(i)
Review elements.
Reviews that assess whether the facility has corrected problems noted on the previous review(s), a reconciliation of the facility's meal counts with enrollment and attendance records for a five-day period, as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, and an assessment of the facility's compliance with the Program requirements pertaining to:
(A) The meal pattern;
(B) Licensing or approval;
(C) Attendance at training;
(D) Meal counts;
(E) Menu and meal records; and
(F) The annual updating and content of enrollment forms (if the facility is required to have enrollment forms on file, as specified in §§ 226.15(e)(2) and 226.15(e)(3)).
(ii)
Reconciliation of meal counts.
Reviews must examine the meal counts recorded by the facility for five consecutive days during the current and/or prior claiming period. For each day examined, reviewers must use enrollment and attendance records (except in those outside-school-hours care centers, at-risk afterschool care centers, and emergency shelters where enrollment records are not required) to determine the number of participants in care during each meal service and attempt to reconcile those numbers to the numbers of breakfasts, lunches, suppers, and/or snacks recorded in the facility's meal count for that day. Based on that comparison, reviewers must determine whether the meal counts were accurate. If there is a discrepancy between the number of participants enrolled or in attendance on the day of review and prior meal counting patterns, the reviewer must attempt to reconcile the difference and determine whether the establishment of an overclaim is necessary.
(iii)
Frequency and type of required facility reviews.
Sponsoring organizations must review each facility three times
each year, except as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section. In addition:
(A) At least two of the three reviews must be unannounced;
(B) At least one unannounced review must include observation of a meal service;
(C) At least one review must be made during each new facility's first four weeks of Program operations; and
(D) Not more than six months may elapse between reviews.
(E) The timing of unannounced reviews must be varied so that they are unpredictable to the facility; and
(F) All types of meal service must be subject to review and sponsoring organizations must vary the meal service reviewed.
(iv)
Averaging of required reviews.
If a sponsoring organization conducts one unannounced review of a facility in a year and finds no serious deficiencies (as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, regardless of the type of facility), the sponsoring organization may choose not to conduct a third review of the facility that year, and may make its second review announced, provided that the sponsoring organization conducts an average of three reviews of all of its facilities that year, and that it conducts an average of two unannounced reviews of all of its facilities that year. When the sponsoring organization uses this averaging provision, and a specific facility receives two reviews in one review year, its first review in the next review year must occur no more than nine months after the previous review.
(v)
Follow-up reviews.
If, in conducting a facility review, a sponsoring organization detects one or more serious deficiency, the next review of that facility must be unannounced. Serious deficiencies are those described at paragraph (l)(2) of this section, regardless of the type of facility.
(vi)
Notification of unannounced reviews.
Sponsoring organizations of centers must provide each center with written notification of the right of the sponsoring organization, the State agency, the Department, and other State and Federal officials to make announced or unannounced reviews of its operations during the center's normal hours of operation, and must also notify sponsored centers that anyone making such reviews must show photo identification that demonstrates that they are employees of one of these entities. For sponsored centers participating on July 29, 2002, the sponsoring organization was to have provided this notice no later than August 29, 2002. For sponsored centers that are approved after July 29, 2002, the sponsoring organization must provide the notice before meal service under the Program begins. Sponsoring organizations must provide day care homes notification of unannounced visits in accordance with § 226.18(b)(1).
(vii)
Other requirements pertaining to unannounced reviews.
Unannounced reviews must be made only during the facility's normal hours of operation, and monitors making such reviews must show photo identification that demonstrates that they are employees of the sponsoring organization, the State agency, the Department, or other State and Federal agencies authorized to audit or investigate Program operations.
(viii)
Imminent threat to health or safety.
Sponsoring organizations that discover in a facility conduct or conditions that pose an imminent threat to the health or safety of participating children or the public, must immediately notify the appropriate State or local licensing or health authorities and take action that is consistent with the recommendations and requirements of those authorities.
(5) For sponsoring organizations, as part of their monitoring of facilities, compliance with the household contact requirements established pursuant to § 226.6(m)(5) of this part.
(e) Each sponsoring organization shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in §§ 226.10(d) and 226.15(e) and any recordkeeping requirements established by the State agency in order to justify the administrative payments made in accordance with § 226.12(a). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
(f) The State agency may require a sponsoring organization to enter into separate agreements for the administration of separate types of facilities
(child care centers, day care homes, adult day care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and outside-school-hours care centers).
(g) Each sponsoring organization electing to receive advance payments of program funds for day care homes shall disburse the full amount of such payments within five working days of receipt from the State agency. If the sponsor requests the full operating advance to which it is entitled, the advances to day care homes shall be the full amount which the sponsor expects the home to earn based on the number of meals projected to be served to enrolled children during the period covered by the advance multiplied by the applicable payment rate as specified in § 226.13(c). If a sponsor elects to receive only a part of the operating advance to which it is entitled, or if the full operating advance is insufficient to provide a full advance to each home, the advance shall be disbursed to its homes in a manner and an amount the sponsor deems appropriate. Each sponsor shall disburse any reimbursement payments for food service due to each day care home within five working days of receipt from the State agency. Such payment shall be based on the number of meals served to enrolled children at each day care home, less any payments advanced to such home. However, the sponsoring organization may withhold from Program payments to each home an amount equal to food service operating costs incurred by the sponsoring organization in behalf of the home and with the home provider's written consent. If payments from the State agency are not sufficient to provide all day care homes under the sponsoring organization's jurisdiction with advance payments and reimbursement payments, available monies shall be used to provide all due reimbursement payments before advances are disbursed.
(h) Sponsoring organizations shall make payments of program funds to child care centers, adult day care centers, emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, or outside-school-hours care centers within five working days of receipt from the State agency, on the basis of the management plan approved by the State agency, and may not exceed the Program costs documented at each facility during any fiscal year; except in those States where the State agency has chosen the option to implement a meals times rates payment system. In those States which implement this optional method of reimbursement, such disbursements may not exceed the rates times the number of meals documented at each facility during any fiscal year.
(i) Disbursements of advance payments may be withheld from facilities which fail to submit reports required by § 226.15(e).
(j) A for-profit organization shall be eligible to serve as a sponsoring organization for for-profit centers which have the same legal identity as the organization, but shall not be eligible to sponsor for-profit centers which are legally distinct from the organization, day care homes, or public or private nonprofit centers.
(k) Before sponsoring organizations expend administrative funds to assist family day care homes in becoming licensed, they shall obtain the following information from each such home: a completed free and reduced price application which documents that the provider meets the Program's income standards; evidence of its application for licensing and official documentation of the defects that are impeding its licensing approval; and a completed CACFP application. These funding requests are limited to $300 per home and are only available to each home once.
(l)
Termination of agreements for cause
—(1)
General.
The sponsoring organization must initiate action to terminate the agreement of a day care home for cause if the sponsoring organization determines the day care home has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(2)
List of serious deficiencies for day care homes.
Serious deficiencies for day care homes are:
(i) Submission of false information on the application;
(ii) Submission of false claims for reimbursement;
(iii) Simultaneous participation under more than one sponsoring organization;
(iv) Non-compliance with the Program meal pattern;
(v) Failure to keep required records;
(vi) Conduct or conditions that threaten the health or safety of a child(ren) in care, or the public health or safety;
