Appendix A to Part 231—Sample Operating Agreement Between Military Installations and Financial Institutions
Appendix B to Part 231—In-store Banking.
Appendix C to Part 231—Sample certificate of compliance for credit unions.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 136.

# Source:
66 FR 46708, Sept. 7, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Guidelines
§ 231.1
Overview.
(a)
Purpose.
This part implements DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230)
1
and prescribes guidance and procedures governing the establishment, support, operation, and termination of banks and credit unions operating on DoD installations worldwide, to include military banking facilities (MBFs). In addition, this part provides guidance intended to ensure that arrangements for the provision of services by financial institutions are consistent among DoD Components, and that financial institutions operating on DoD installations provide, and are provided, support consistent with the guidance and procedures stated herein.
1
Copies may be obtained via Internet at
http://www.dtic.whs/directives.
(b)
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), the Joint Staff and the supporting Joint Agencies, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG, DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS), all DoD nonappropriated fund instrumentalities including the Military Exchange Services and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense.
§ 231.2
Policy.
The policy pertaining to financial institutions operating on DoD installations is contained in DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230) and in § 231.4.
§ 231.3
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) shall develop and monitor policies governing establishment, operation, and termination of financial institutions on DoD installations and take final action on requests for exceptions to this part.
(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics) (USD(AT
L)) shall monitor policies and procedures governing logistical support furnished to financial institutions on DoD installations, including the use of DoD real property and equipment.
(c) The Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) (USD(P
R)) shall advise the USD(C) on all aspects of on-base financial institution services that affect the morale and welfare of DoD personnel.
(d) The Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) shall:
(1) Develop procedures governing banks and credit unions on DoD installations for promulgation in this part.
(2) For domestic DoD installations, coordinate with the Secretaries of the Military Departments (or designees) on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or terminate banking offices or on-base credit unions. For overseas DoD installations, coordinate with the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or discontinue the provision of financial services from the on-base financial institution under contract with the Department of Defense or to establish or terminate banking offices or credit unions located on DoD installations.
(3) In coordination with affected DoD Components, authorize the specific types of banking services that will be provided by overseas military banking facilities (MBFs) and specify the charges or fees, or the basis for these, to be levied on users of these services.
(4) Coordinate with the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury on the designation of domestic and overseas MBFs as depositaries and financial agents of the U.S. Government.
(5) Designate a technical representative to provide policy direction for the procuring and administrative contracting officer(s) responsible under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) for acquiring banking services required at overseas DoD installations.
(6) Serve as principal liaison with banking institutions having offices on overseas DoD installations. In this capacity, monitor MBF managerial and operational policies, procedures, and operating results and take action as appropriate.
(7) As necessary, assist in the formation of government-to-government agreements for the provision of banking services on overseas DoD installations, in accordance with DoD Directive 5530.3
2
.
2
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(8) Provide procedural guidance to DoD Components, as required.
(9) Maintain liaison with financial institution trade associations, leagues, and councils in order to interpret DoD policies toward respective memberships and aid in resolving mutual concerns affecting the provision of financial services.
(10) Coordinate with the USD(P
R), through the USD(C), on all aspects of morale and welfare and with the USD(AT
L), through the USD(C), on all aspects of logistic support for on-base financial institutions.
(11) Monitor industry trends, conduct studies and surveys, and facilitate appropriate dialogues on banking and credit union arrangements and cost-benefit relationships, coordinate as necessary with DoD Components, financial institutions, and trade associations as appropriate.
(12) Maintain liaison, as appropriate, with financial institution regulatory agencies at federal and state levels.
(13) Ensure that recommendations of the Combatant Commands are considered before processing requests for overseas banking and credit union service or related actions.
(14) Maintain a listing of all geographic franchises assigned to credit unions serving DoD overseas installations.
(e) Secretaries of the Military Departments (or designees) shall:
(1) For domestic DoD installations, take action on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or terminate financial institution operations. For overseas DoD installations, take action in accordance with guidance contained herein on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or discontinue the provision of financial services from the DoD contracted banking institution, or to establish or terminate other financial institutions located on DoD installations.
(2) Provide for liaison to those financial institutions that operate banking offices on respective domestic DoD installations.
(3) Oversee the use of banking offices and credit unions on respective DoD installations within the guidance contained herein and in DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230).
(4) Evaluate the services provided and related charges and fees by respective on-base banking offices and credit unions to ensure that they fulfill the requirements upon which the establishment and retention of those services were justified.
(5) Monitor practices and procedures of respective banking offices and credit unions to ensure that the welfare and interests of DoD personnel as consumers are protected.
(6) Assist on-base banking offices and credit unions to develop and expand necessary services for DoD personnel consistent with this part.
(7) Encourage the conversion of existing domestic MBFs on respective installations to independent or branch bank status where feasible.
(8) Provide logistical support to overseas MBFs under terms and conditions identified in this part as well as with the applicable terms of DoD contracts with financial institutions responsible for the operations of overseas MBFs.
(9) Refer matters requiring policy decisions or proposed changes to this part or DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230) to the USD(C) through the Director, DFAS.
(10) Monitor and encourage the use of financial institutions on DoD installations to accomplish the following ends.
(i) Facilitate convenient, effective management of the appropriated, nonappropriated, and private funds of on-base activities.
(ii) Assist DoD personnel in managing their personal finances through participation in programs such as direct deposit and regular savings plans, including U.S. savings bonds. The use
of on-base financial institutions shall be on a voluntary basis and should not be urged in preference to, or to the exclusion of, other financial institutions.
(11) Encourage and assist duly chartered financial institutions on domestic DoD installations to provide complete financial services to include, without charge, basic financial education and counseling services. Financial education and counseling services refer to basic personal and family finances such as budgeting, checkbook balancing and account reconciliation, benefits of savings, prudent use of credit, how to start a savings program, how to shop and apply for credit, and the consequences of excessive credit.
(12) Establish liaison, as appropriate, with federal and state regulatory agencies and financial institution trade associations, leagues, and councils.
(13) Make military locator services available to on-base financial institutions in accordance with the Privacy Act guidelines in subpart B of this part.
(14) Permit DoD personnel to serve on volunteer boards or committees of on-base financial institutions, without compensation, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 5500.7.
3
3
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(15) Allow DoD personnel to attend conferences and meetings that bring together representatives of on-base financial institutions, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 1327.5,
4
subchapter 630 of the DoD Civilian Personnel Manual (DoD 1400.25-M
5
), and Comptroller General Decision B-212457.
4
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
5
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(f) The Commanders of the Combatant Commands (or designees) shall:
(1) Ensure the appropriate coordination of the following types of requests affecting financial institutions overseas.
(i) Establish financial institutions in countries not presently served. Such requests will include a statement that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy and that the host country will permit the operation.
(ii) Eliminate any or all financial institutions on DoD installations within a foreign country. Such requests will include a statement that the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission has been informed and that appropriate arrangements to coordinate local termination announcements and procedures have been made with the U.S. Embassy.
(2) Monitor and coordinate military banking operations within the command area. Personnel assigned to security assistance positions will not perform this function without the prior approval of the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA).
(g) The Commanders of Major Commands and subordinate installation commanders shall:
(1) Monitor the banking and credit union program within their commands.
(2) Coordinate requests to establish or construct bank and credit union offices or terminate logistical support as specified in this part to banks and credit unions within their commands. Personnel assigned to overseas security assistance positions will not monitor, coordinate, or assist in military banking operations without the prior approval of the DSCA.
(3) Assign, as appropriate, responsibility for paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, to comptroller or resource management personnel.
(4) Cooperate with financial institution associations, leagues, and councils.
(5) Recognize the right of all DoD personnel to organize and join credit unions and promote the credit union movement in DoD worldwide.
(6) Permit DoD personnel to serve on volunteer boards or committees of on-base financial institutions, without compensation, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 5500.7.
(7) Allow DoD personnel to attend conferences and meetings that bring together representatives of on-base financial institutions, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 1327.5, Subchapter 630 of the DoD Civilian Personnel Manual (DoD
1400.25-M), and Comptroller General Decision B-212457.
(8) Seek the provision of financial services only from existing on-base financial institutions, proposing alternatives only where on-base financial institutions fail to respond favorably to a valid requirement.
§ 231.4
General provisions.
(a)
Security.
The installation commander (or designee) and officials of the on-base financial institutions shall work with the installation security authorities to establish an understanding as to each entity's responsibilities. The on-base financial institutions are encouraged to establish an ongoing relationship with installation security authorities on all matters of asset protection.
(1) A written agreement shall be established outlining the security procedures that the financial institution will follow and the role that installation security authorities will play with regard to alarms, movement of cash, and procedures to be followed in response to criminal activity (e.g., armed robbery).
(2) Cash and other assets in on-base banking offices and credit unions are the property of those financial institutions. Maintenance of alarms and use of armored cars is the sole responsibility of the on-base financial institution. The on-base financial institution is also solely responsible for the guarding or escorting of cash unless the installation commander determines that providing such services is desirable or necessary.
(b)
Central locator services.
Military locator services shall be provided per the guidelines in subpart B of this part.
(1) When appropriate, installations will process financial institution requests for central locator service to obtain military addresses of active duty personnel. This service will be used to locate persons for settling accounts, and recovering funds on checks that did not clear or loans that are delinquent or in default (see DoD Directive 1344.9
6
). If delinquent loans or dishonored checks are not recouped within 48 hours, financial institutions operating on DoD installations may bring this information to the attention of the local commander, bank liaison officer, or other designee for assistance in effecting restitution of the amount due, if not otherwise prohibited by law. The financial institution will pay the appropriate fee for each request to the respective Military Department.
6
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(2) The DoD Components shall assist financial institutions to locate DoD personnel whose whereabouts cannot be locally determined. The request should be on the financial institution's letterhead, include the Service member's name and social security number, and cite the cognizant Military Service regulation that authorizes the use of locator services. If a financial institution needs immediate service, the cognizant institution official should contact the bank or credit union liaison officer.
(i) For addresses of Department of the Army active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (703) 325-3732 or write to: Department of the Army Worldwide Locator, U.S. Army Enlisted Record and Evaluation Center, 8899 E. 56th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46249-5301.
(ii) For addresses of Navy active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (901) 874-3388 or write to: Navy Personnel Command, PERS-312F, 5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 38055-3120.
(iii) For addresses of Department of the Air Force active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (210) 565-2660 or write to: Air Force Personnel Center, MSIMDL Suite 50, 550 C Street West, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4752.
(iv) For addresses of United States Marine Corps active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (703) 784-3942 or write to:

# Active
U.S. Marine Corps—CMC, HQ MC MMS B 10, 2008 Elliot Road, Room 201, Quantico, VA 22134-5030.

# Retired-Separated
Q U.S. MMRS-6, 280 Russell Road, Quantico, VA 22134-5105.

# Civilian
Commanding General, 15303 Andrew Road, Kansas City, MO 64147-1207.
(c)
Advertising.
(1) An on-base financial institution may use the unofficial section of that installation's daily bulletin, provided space is available, to inform DoD personnel of financial services and announce seminars, consumer information programs, and other matters of broad general interest. Announcements of free financial counseling services are encouraged. Such media may not be used for competitive or comparative advertising of, for example, specific interest rates on savings or loans.
(2) An on-base financial institution may use installation bulletin boards, newsletters or web pages to post general information that complements the installation's financial counseling programs and promotes financial responsibility and thrift. Message center services may distribute a reasonable number of announcements to units for use on bulletin boards so long as this does not impose an unreasonable workload.
(3) An on-base financial institution may include an insert in the installation's newcomers package (or equivalent). This insert should benefit newcomers by identifying the financial services that are available on the installation.
(4) DoD Directive 5120.20
7
prevents use of the Armed Forces Radio and Television Service to promote a specific financial institution.
7
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(5) Off-base financial institutions are not permitted to distribute competitive literature or forms on the installation. These institutions, however, may use commercial advertising, mailings or telecommunications to reach their customers.
(6) Advertising in government-funded (official) installation papers is not permitted with the exception of insert advertising in the
Stars and Stripes
overseas. Installation newspapers funded by advertisers are not official publications and, thus, may include advertising paid for by any financial institution.
(7) Installation activities, including Military Exchange Services and concessionaire outlets, shall not permit the distribution of literature from off-base financial institutions if there is an on-base financial institution. This does not prevent the Military Exchange Services from distributing literature on affinity credit card services that those Military Exchange Services may acquire centrally through competitive solicitation.
(d)
Automated teller machine (ATM) service.
On-base financial institutions are encouraged to install ATMs at those installation(s) on which they are located.
(1) Financial institutions that propose to install ATMs on DoD installations shall bear the cost of ATM installation, maintenance and operation. The installation commander may enter into an agreement with the on-base financial institution wherein the installation may acquire and provide ATMs to on-base financial institutions under certain circumstances, such as when it is advantageous to the government to have one or more ATMs available for use but the acquisition cost to the financial institution is prohibitive. No ATM shall be purchased by an installation unless approved by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). In all such cases, installation costs and all logistic support shall be borne by the financial institution.
(2) ATM approval authority is as shown:
(i) The installation commander has approval authority when an on-base financial institution wishes to place an ATM on the installation. This approval should be reflected as an amendment to the operating agreement.
(ii) Where there is no on-base financial institution, follow the solicitation procedures to obtain financial services set forth in §§ 231.5(c) and 231.7(b).
(3) The availability of ATM service shall not preclude the later establishment of a banking office should conditions change on an installation.
(4) Proposals by an installation commander to install ATMs on domestic installations from other than on-base
financial institutions, including the Military Exchange Services, morale, welfare and recreational activities and/or other nonappropriated fund instrumentalities, shall be considered only when:
(i) ATM service is unavailable or existing service is inadequate, and
(ii) The on-base financial institution(s) either declines to provide the service, fails to improve existing service so that it is adequate, or does not formally respond to the request for such service within 30 days of the date of the request. Any ATM service from other than on-base financial institutions is considered an exception to policy. The procedures to establish an on-base financial institution set forth in §§ 231.5(c) and 231.7(b) shall be followed when soliciting for such ATM services. Proposals offering shared-access ATMs (e.g., ATMs operated by two or more financial institutions where their accountholders are not assessed any or all fees applicable to nonaccountholders) shall receive preference.
(5) ATM service from foreign banking institutions may be authorized on overseas installations with or without MBFs operated under contract where the installation or community commander determines that a bonafide need exists to support local national hires. On installations with MBFs operated under contract, the MBFs shall be the primary source of the ATM service except when a determination has been made by the cognizant contract program office that providing the service is either not cost effective or precluded by pertinent status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements or host-country law. In those instances where ATM service from foreign banking institutions is authorized and provided by other than the on-base financial institution, ATM connectivity shall be limited to host country networks and the ATMs shall dispense only local currency (no U.S. dollars). The operating agreement covering ATM service shall be negotiated by the installation or community commander and submitted for approval by the appropriate Combatant Commander (or designee) prior to its execution. A copy of the operating agreement will be forwarded through DoD Component channels to the DFAS.
(e)
Domestic and international treasury general accounts.
In cases where authorization will be required for the on-base banking office or credit union to act as a Treasury General Account (TGA) domestic depositary (or, on overseas installations, an International Treasury General Account (ITGA) depository), the financial institution shall satisfy the risk management standard established by the Secretary of the Treasury. Local operating funds may be used if the on-base financial institution requests reimbursement for costs incurred. On-base financial institutions shall accept deposits for credit to the TGA (or ITGA) when so authorized.
(f)
Staffing.
(1) On-base financial institutions shall be staffed adequately (i.e., commensurate with industry standards for similar numbers of accountholders and financial services rendered). Staffing at overseas MBFs operated under DoD contract shall be maintained within negotiated ceilings.
(2) All staffing shall comply fully with applicable equal employment opportunity laws and with the spirit of DoD equal employment opportunity policies as set forth in DoD Directive 1440.1.
8
8
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(3) DoD personnel, excluding military retirees and their dependents, may not serve as directors of domestic or foreign banking institutions operating banking offices on those DoD installations where they currently are assigned. This does not preclude a member of a Reserve Component, who has been serving as a director of a domestic or foreign banking institution operating a banking office on a DoD installation, from retaining his or her directorship if called to active duty.
(4) DoD personnel may not be detailed to duty with an on-base financial institution located on a DoD installation. Off-duty personnel, however, may be employed by an on-base financial institution subject to approval by the installation commander (or designee). Such employment must not interfere with the performance of the individual's official duties and responsibilities.
(g)
Departure clearance.
The installation commander establishes the clearance policy for all DoD personnel leaving the installation. The on-base financial institutions shall be included as places requiring clearance. The purpose of a clearance is to report change of address, reaffirm allotments or outstanding debts, and receive financial counseling, if desired or appropriate. Clearance may not be denied in order to collect debts or resolve disputes with financial institution management.
(h)
Financial education.
(1) Officials of on-base financial institutions shall be invited to take part in seminars to educate personnel on personal financial management and financial services. Financial institutions shall be encouraged to provide financial education and counseling services as an integral part of their financial service offerings. Officials of on-base financial institutions shall submit advance briefing texts for approval by the installation commander to ensure that the program is not used to promote services of a specific financial institution.
(2) DoD personnel who tender uncollectible checks, overdraw their accounts or fail to meet their financial obligations in a proper and timely manner damage their credit reputation and adversely affect the public image of all government personnel. For uniformed personnel, military financial counselors and legal advisors shall recommend workable repayment plans that avoid further endangering credit ratings and counsel affected personnel to protect their credit standing and career. Counselors shall ensure that such personnel are aware of the stigma associated with bankruptcy and difficulties in obtaining future credit at reasonable rates and terms and shall recommend its use only when no other alternative will alleviate the situation.
(i)
Operating agreements.
(1) Before operations of an on-base banking office or credit union begin, a written operating agreement (Appendix C of this part) and the appropriate real estate outgrant (i.e., a lease, permit or license issued as identified in §§ 231.5(e), 231.5(f), 231.5(g), 231.7(d), 231.7(e) and 231.7(f) shall be negotiated directly between the installation commander and officials of the designated financial institution. Thereafter, the operating agreement shall be jointly reviewed by the installation commander and the financial institution at least once every 5 years. The operating agreement shall define the basic relationship between the on-base financial institution and the installation commander and identify mutual support activities such as hours of operation, service fees and security provided. One copy of the agreement shall be sent through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). A copy of the agreement shall be maintained by the installation commander and the banking office or on-base credit union. At a minimum, the agreement shall include the following provisions:
(i) Identification of services to be rendered and the conditions for service. Full financial services shall be provided where feasible. Agreements, however, may not restrict either entity's right to renegotiate services and fees.
(ii) Agreement by both parties that they will comply with this part and DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230).
(iii) Agreement by the on-base financial institution that it will furnish copies of its financial reports and other local publications on an “as needed” basis in response to a formal request from the installation commander (or designee).
(iv) Agreement that the on-base financial institution will indemnify and hold harmless the U.S. Government from (and against) any loss, expense, claim, or demand to which the U.S. Government may be subjected as a result of death, loss, destruction, or damage in conjunction with the use and occupancy of the premises caused in whole or in part by agents or employees of the on-base financial institution.
(v) Agreement that neither the Department of Defense nor its representatives shall be responsible or liable for the financial operation of the on-base financial institution or for any loss (including criminal losses), expense, or claim for damages arising from operations.
(vi) Agreement by the on-base financial institution (or any successor) that
it will provide no less than 180 days advance written notice to the installation commander before ceasing operations.
(vii) Specification of the security services to be provided for guarding cash shipments, at times of unusual risk to the financial institution and to avoid excessive insurance costs charged to that institution.
(viii) Statement that the physical security for cash and negotiable items will be in a manner consistent with the requirements of the on-base financial institution's insurer. A copy of those requirements will be provided to the installation commander on request.
(ix) Statement that the financial institution, whenever possible, will accommodate local command requests for lectures and printed materials for consumer credit education programs. Officials invited to participate in such programs shall not use the occasion to promote the exclusive services of a particular financial institution.
(x) Agreement that the financial institution will reimburse the installation for the provision of logistical support (such as custodial, janitorial, and other services provided by the government) at rates set forth in the lease or agreement between the installation and the financial institution.
(xi) Statement that on-base financial institution operations shall be terminated, when required, under provisions specified in this part.
(2) Approved expansion of services will be documented as an amendment to the existing operating agreement between the installation commander and the on-base financial institution. The amendment to the operating agreement and any required lease (to include a change to an existing lease) shall be in place prior to the initiation of new financial services or offices.
(j)
Installation financial services.
(1) Retail banking operations shall not be performed by any DoD Component or nonappropriated fund instrumentality including the Military Exchange Services and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) activities or any other organizational entity within the Department of Defense.
(2) Financial services provided on DoD installations will be as uniform as possible for all personnel. As separately negotiated, or based on a fee schedule, custodians of nonappropriated funds shall compensate on-base financial institutions for services received. Compensation may be made with compensating balances or paying fees based on the services provided or a combination of these payment mechanisms. Fees shall not exceed the charge customary for the financial institution less an offsetting credit on balances maintained. Banking offices shall classify nonappropriated fund accounts as commercial accounts.
(3) At a minimum, banking offices shall provide the same services to individuals and nonappropriated fund instrumentalities as are available in the surrounding geographic area.
(4) On-base financial institutions may conduct operations during normal duty hours provided they do not disrupt the performance of official duties. Operating hours shall be set, in consultation with the bank or credit union liaison officer, to meet the needs of all concerned. ATMs may be used to expand financial services and operating hours.
(5) DoD personnel may use their allotment of pay privileges to establish sound credit and savings practices through on-base financial institutions.
(i) The on-base financial institution shall credit customer accounts not later than the deposit date of the allotment check or electronic funds transfer.
(ii) The initiation of an allotment is voluntary (See Volume 7a, Chapter 42, Section 4202 of The DoD Financial Management Regulation (7200.14-R)). Thus, DoD personnel generally cannot be required to initiate an allotment for the repayment of a loan. Allotments voluntarily established by DoD personnel for the purpose of repaying a loan or otherwise providing funds to an on-base financial institution shall continue in effect at the option of the allotter.
(6) In accordance with sound lending practice, policies on loans to individuals are expected to be as liberal as feasible while remaining consistent with the overall interests of the on-
base financial institution. On-base financial institutions shall conform to the Standards of Fairness principles before executing loan or credit agreements. See DoD Directive 1344.9.
(7) On-base financial institutions shall make basic financial education and counseling services available without charge to individuals seeking these services. Financial education and counseling services refer to basic personal and family finances such as budgeting, checkbook balancing and account reconciliation, benefits of savings, prudent use of credit, how to start a savings program, how to shop and apply for credit, and the consequences of excessive credit. DoD personnel in junior enlisted or civilian grades, or newly married couples who apply for loans, shall be given special attention and counseling.
(8) On-base financial institutions must strive to provide the best service to all customers. On-base financial institutions that evidence a policy of discrimination in their services are in violation of this part. In resolving complaints of discrimination, use the procedures specified in § 231.5(h)(8).
(9) All correspondence regarding on-base financial institutions, and questions concerning their operation that cannot be resolved locally, shall be referred through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for consideration.
§ 231.5
Procedures—domestic banks.
(a)
General policy.
Given their role in promoting morale and welfare, on-base banks shall be recognized and assisted by DoD Components at all levels.
(b)
Establishment.
(1) The following information shall be included in the installation commander's request to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for establishment of banking offices:
(i) The approximate number of DoD personnel at the installation, and other persons who may be authorized to use the banking office.
(ii) The distance between the installation and the financial institutions in the vicinity, and the names of those institutions.
(iii) Available transportation between the installation and the financial institutions listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv) The number of DoD personnel in duty assignments that confine them to the installation or who cannot obtain transportation (such as hospital patients).
(v) The name and location of the depositary used to make official deposits for credit to the TGA.
(vi) A list of organizational and nonappropriated fund accounts, the name and location of the financial institutions where deposited, and the average daily activity and balance of each account.
(vii) A written description and photographs of the space proposed for banking office use.
(viii) A statement listing the requirements of the proposed banking office for safes and a vault, alarm systems, and surveillance equipment, when necessary.
(ix) Reasons for use of space controlled by the General Services Administration (GSA). All the GSA assigned space, whether leased space or federal office building space, is reimbursable to the GSA at the standard level user charge. As such, space occupied by a banking office to serve military needs will be assigned and charged by the GSA.
(x) Any other information pertinent to the establishment of a banking office.
(2) The Secretary of the Military Departments (or designee) shall:
(i) Review each request for the establishment of banking offices.
(ii) Conduct a solicitation for the services when warranted.
(iii) Approve proposals for banking offices.
(iv) Notify the selected financial institution either directly or through the installation commander. The selected banking institution will, in turn, obtain operating authority from their regulating agencies.
(v) Forward proposals to establish TGAs to the DFAS for subsequent forwarding to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with Volume 5, Chapter 5, paragraph
050102 of The DoD Financial Management Regulation (7000.14-R).
(c)
Solicitations.
The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), or the installation commander with advice from the cognizant Secretary of the Military Department (or designee), shall conduct solicitations to include pre-proposal conferences for on-base banking. Subject to the criteria for selection outlined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section the preferred sources of on-base financial services at domestic installations are federally-insured, state-chartered or federally-insured, federally-chartered banking institutions operating in the local area. The guidance at paragraph (c)(1) of this section addresses distribution of the solicitation only and does not preclude any federally-insured, state-chartered or federally-insured, federally-chartered banking institution from responding at any stage (from local distribution in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section to publication in the
Commerce Business Daily
and financial institution trade journals as outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section of the solicitation process. No commitment may be made to any banking institution regarding its proposal until a designation is made by the appropriate regulatory agency.
(1) Solicitations for banking services shall be accomplished in the following order:
(i) Solicitation letters will be sent to local banking institutions and a solicitation announcement will be published in the local newspaper(s) and forwarded to financial institution associations.
(ii) If the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) or, where delegated, the installation commander, determines that the geographic scope of the solicitation needs to be expanded, a prospectus will be forwarded to financial institutions in a larger geographic area, as well as financial institution associations and regulatory authorities in the state where the installation is located.
(iii) If the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) or, where delegated, the installation commander, determines that the geographic scope of the solicitation needs to be expanded further, the prospectus will be published in the Commerce Business Daily and financial institution trade journals.
(2) For solicitations conducted at the installation level, the installation commander shall review proposals to establish banking offices, select the banking institution making the best offer and forward a recommendation to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for final approval.
(3) Banking institutions shall not be coerced when banking arrangements are under consideration or after banking offices are established. If otherwise proper, this prohibition does not preclude:
(i) Discussions with banking institutions prior to submitting a proposal for a new banking office.
(ii) Helping banking offices extend their operations in support of an installation requirement.
(iii) Discussions with banking institutions to improve services or to create savings for the banking institution or DoD personnel.
(iv) Seeking proposals for banking service as directed by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee).
(v) Negotiations preparatory to signing a banking agreement.
(4) When soliciting for banking services, proposals shall be evaluated on specific factors identified in the solicitation. These factors, at a minimum, shall be predicated on the services to be provided as outlined in appendix A, paragraph 3, of this part, the financial institution's schedule of service fees and charges, and the extent of logistical support required. Prior to issuance of the solicitation, the preparing office shall identify (for internal use during the subsequent evaluation period) the weights to be applied to the factors reflected in the solicitation. Proposals shall be evaluated and ultimate selection made based upon the factors and weights developed for the solicitation.
(5) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), or the installation commander with advice from the cognizant Secretary of the Military Department (or designee),
shall make the selection of the banking institution based on the provisions outlined in this section.
(d)
Terminations.
(1) Requests for termination of financial services shall be approved by the installation commander, substantiated by sufficient evidence and forwarded to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The termination of banking office operations shall be initiated by the installation commander only under one of the following conditions:
(i) The mission of the installation has changed, or is scheduled to be changed, thereby eliminating or substantially reducing the requirement for financial services.
(ii) Active military operations prevent continuation of on-base financial services.
(iii) Performance of the banking office in providing services is not satisfactory according to standards ordinarily associated with the financial services industry or is inconsistent with the operating agreements or the procedures prescribed herein.
(iv) When merger, acquisition, change of control or other action results in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall terminate the operating agreement with the existing banking institution. When the merger, acquisition, change of control or other action does not result in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall initiate a novation action of the operating agreement identifying the change in control.
(2) The installation commander shall forward requests for termination to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall coordinate all termination actions with the USD(C), through the Director, DFAS, before notification to the appropriate regulatory agency. Subsequent to this coordination process:
(i) The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall inform the regulatory agency of the action.
(ii) The installation commander shall revoke the authority of the financial institution to operate. The lease will be terminated.
(3) Any banking office that intends to terminate its operations should notify the installation commander at least 180 days before the closing date. This notification should precede any public announcement of the planned closure. When appropriate, the commander shall attempt to negotiate an agreement permitting the banking office to continue operations until the installation has made other arrangements. Immediately upon notification of a closing, the commander shall advise the DoD Component headquarters concerned. If it is determined that continuation of banking services is justified, action to establish another banking office shall be taken in accordance with the guidance prescribed herein.
(e)
Use of space, logistical support, and military real property for domestic banks
—(1)
Lease Terms.
(i) The consideration for a lease shall be determined by appraisal of fair market rental value in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2667. Periodic reappraisals shall be based upon the fair market rental value exclusive of the improvements made by the banks.
(ii) The term of the lease shall not exceed 5 years except where the banking institution uses its own funds to improve existing government space as outlined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. If space occupied is assigned by the GSA, charges to financial institutions for space and services shall be at the GSA standard level user rate.
(iii) Leases shall include the following provisions:
(A) The government has the right to terminate the lease due to national emergency; installation inactivation, closing, or other disposal action; or default by the lessee.
(B) The lessee shall provide written notice 180 days prior to voluntarily terminating the lease.
(C) Upon a lease termination, the government has the option to cause the title of all structures and other improvements to be conveyed to the United States without reimbursement, or require the lessee to remove the improvements and restore the land to its original condition.
(2)
Logistical support.
(i) The banking office shall be housed in a building accessible to DoD personnel on the installation and in a location permitting reasonable security.
(ii) Banking institutions shall perform all maintenance, repair, improvements, alterations, and construction on the banking premises.
(iii) Banking institutions shall pay for all utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating and air conditioning, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal) at rates set forth in the lease, operating agreement or other written agreement between the installation and the banking institution.
(3) Leases executed before the issuance of this part may not be altered solely as a result of the provisions of this part unless a lessee specifically requests a renegotiation under these provisions. No lease may be negotiated or renegotiated, nor may any rights be waived or surrendered without compensation to the government.
(4) When a banking institution participates in the construction of a shopping mall complex the lease shall cover only land where the banking office physically is located.
(5) When a banking institution uses its own funds to improve existing government space, leases, for a period not to exceed 25 years subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value, may be negotiated for a period commensurate with the appraised value of the leasehold improvements divided by the annual lease fee.
(f)
Land leases.
(1) A lease for construction of a building to house a banking office shall be at the appraised fair market rental value. Charges shall apply for the term of the lease not to exceed 25 years, subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value.
(2) If determined to be in the government's interest, an existing lease of land may be extended prior to expiration of its term. Passage of title to facilities shall be deferred until all extensions have expired. Such extensions shall be for periods not to exceed 5 years with lease payments set at the appraised fair market rental of the land only as determined on the date of each such extension. Banking institution lessees shall continue to maintain the premises and pay for utilities and services furnished.
(3) When, under the terms of a lease, title to improvements passes to the government, arrangements normally will be made as follows:
(i) When the square footage involved exceeds that authorized in DoD 4270.1-M
9
, the banking institution shall be given first choice to continue occupying the excess space under a lease that provides for fair market rental for the land underlying that excess space.
9
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(ii) The charge for continued occupancy of improved space by a banking office shall be at fair market rental value only for the associated land. The lessee shall continue to maintain the premises and pay the cost of utilities and services furnished.
(g)
Construction.
Banks may construct buildings subject to the following provisions:
(1) The building shall be solely for the use of the banking institution and may not provide for other commercial enterprises or government instrumentalities.
(2) Construction projects must meet the criteria in DoD 4270.1-M.
(3)
Construction projects approval authority.
(i) Projects costing $25,000 or more shall be approved by the Major Command with an information copy sent to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall have 30 days to provide comments to the Major Command before final approval can be granted.
(ii) Projects costing less than $25,000, to include interior alterations and room or office additions to existing banking offices, shall be approved by installation commanders. Copies of approvals, including the identification of project cost, shall be furnished to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee).
(4) The Congress shall be notified of all construction projects, using other than appropriated funds and costing over $500,000, in accordance with DoD Instruction 7700.18
10
.
10
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(5) Proposals for construction of structures on installations at a banking institution's expense shall be reviewed and reported in accordance with regulations of the Military Department concerned. The following information shall be listed to support each proposal:
(i) Number of DoD personnel at the installation plus others who may use the banking office.
(ii) Square footage of the proposed building.
(iii) Land area to be leased to the banking institution.
(iv) Term of the lease.
(v) Estimated cost of construction.
(vi) Estimated fair market value of the land to be leased.
(vii) Statement that the banking institution will be responsible for utility connections and other utility and maintenance costs.
(viii) Statement that the building will be used only for financial services.
(ix) A statement that financial institution officials understand the potential loss of the building in the event of installation closure or other delimiting condition.
(x) Justification for a waiver of space criteria if the building exceeds that specified in DoD 4270.1-M.
(6) Banks shall pay for interior alterations and maintenance as well as utilities, custodial, and other furnished services.
(7) Banks shall pay all construction costs.
(h)
Bank liaison officer (BLO).
Each installation commander having an on-base banking office shall appoint a BLO. The BLO's name and duty telephone number shall be displayed prominently at each banking office on the installation. As appropriate, the BLO's responsibility shall be assigned to comptroller or resource management personnel. Employees, officials or directors of a financial institution may not serve as BLOs. The BLO shall:
(1) Ensure that the banking institution operating the banking office has the latest version of this part.
(2) Ensure that traveler's checks and money orders are not being sold by other on-base organizations when banking offices are open for business. Postal units and credit unions, however, are exempt from this restriction. Also, ensure that other financial services, to include vehicle financing on domestic installations, are offered only by the banking office.
(3) Attend financial workshops, conferences, and seminars as appropriate. These gatherings offer excellent opportunities for personnel of financial institutions and the Department to improve the military banking program. Free discussion among the attendees gives an excellent forum for planning, developing, and reviewing programs that improve financial services made available to DoD personnel and organizations.
(4) Assist, when requested by the banking office manager or the installation commander, in locating and collecting from individuals tendering uncollectible checks, overdrawing accounts, or defaulting on loans (within the guidelines of subpart C) if not otherwise prohibited by law.
(5) Maintain regular contact with the banking office manager to confer and discuss quantitative and qualitative improvements in the services provided. In executing this authority, the BLO shall not become involved in the internal operations of the financial institution.
(6) Review the schedule of service charges and fees annually, and ensure that the operating agreement is updated at least every 5 years. Renegotiate the financial services offered and related service charges and fees as necessary.
(7) Assist in resolving customer complaints about banking services.
(8) Assist in resolving complaints of discrimination with financial services by the banking institution. If a complaint cannot be resolved, a written request for investigation shall be forwarded to the appropriate regulatory agency. Any such request must document the problem and command efforts
taken toward its resolution. Information copies of all related correspondence shall be sent through channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for transmittal to the DFAS.
(9) Assist the installation commander to report to the appropriate regulatory agency any evidence suggesting malpractice by banking office personnel.
(i)
In-store banking.
Under the direction and approval of the installation commander, an on-base financial institution may provide in-store banking within the premises of a commissary operated by the Defense Commissary Agency, a Military Exchange, or any other on-base retail facility.
(1) Provision of the requested services, and any associated stipulations, shall be documented as an amendment to the existing operating agreement between the installation commander and the on-base financial institution that will provide in-store services.
(2) The amendment to the operating agreement shall be drafted through close coordination between the requesting DoD Component representative, the on-base financial institution representative, the bank liaison officer, and the installation commander (or designee). The final amendment shall be signed by the installation commander and the on-base financial institution with the acknowledgement of the DoD Component that will host the in-store banking operation.
(3) The installation commander shall extend the opportunity to provide the requested in-store banking services to all financial institutions located on the installation. The selection process is outlined in Appendix B of this part.
(4) Space shall be granted by the installation commander through a lease to the banking institution that will provide in-store service.
(j)
Domestic military banking facilities (MBFs)
—(1)
Domestic MBF establishment.
(i) Requests to establish MBFs shall be made only when a need for services cannot be met by other means. During mobilization, however, MBFs may be designated as an emergency measure.
(ii) Installation commanders shall send requests for an MBF with justification for its establishment through the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) to the Director, DFAS, for coordination with the Department of the Treasury. The Department of the Treasury may approve the designation of an MBF under provisions of 12 U.S.C. 265.
(iii) MBF operations may begin only after approval for MBF status is granted by the Department of the Treasury.
(2)
MBF conversion.
(i) Where MBFs exist, installation commanders shall encourage their conversion to independent or branch banks.
(ii) Proposals from the on-base banking institution to convert an existing MBF to an independent or branch bank shall be sent through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for approval. The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall forward the request to the Director, DFAS, for coordination with the Department of the Treasury.
(iii) Unsolicited proposals from banking institutions to establish independent or branch banks where an MBF exists shall be forwarded through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). Each proposal shall be evaluated on its own merits.
(A) The installation commander shall inform the banking institution operating the MBF that an unsolicited proposal for a banking office has been received and shall offer that incumbent institution the opportunity to submit its own proposal.
(B) Preference to operate an independent or branch bank shall be given to the banking institution that has operated the MBF, provided that the banking service previously rendered has been satisfactory and that the institution's proposal is adequate.
(3)
MBF termination.
The Director, DFAS, shall coordinate the termination of a financial institution's authority to operate an MBF with the Department of the Treasury.
[66 FR 46708, Sept. 7, 2001; 66 FR 54136, Oct. 26, 2001]
§ 231.6
Procedures—overseas banks.
(a)
General provisions of banking services overseas.
The Department acquires banking services overseas for use by
authorized persons and organizations from the following sources:
(1) MBFs operated under contract and authorized by the pertinent status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(2) Domestic and foreign banking institutions located on overseas DoD installations. Each such institution shall be:
(i) Chartered to provide financial services in that country.
(ii) A party to a formal operating agreement with the installation commander to provide such services.
(iii) Identified, where applicable, in the status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(b)
Establishment
—(1)
Overseas MBFs operated under contract.
Installation or community commanders requiring banking services will send a request through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for concurrence and subsequent transmittal to the Director, DFAS, for approval.
(i) Requests to establish MBFs shall include, but are not limited to, the following information:
(A) The approximate number of DoD personnel at the installation and in the community and any other persons who may be authorized to use the MBF.
(B) The distance between the installation and the nearest MBF and credit union office, the names; addresses, and telephone numbers of the operators of those institutions; and the installations and communities where they are located.
(C) The availability of official and public transportation between the installation or community and the nearest MBF and credit union office.
(D) The name and location of the depository used to make official deposits for credit to the TGA.
(E) A list of organizational and nonappropriated fund accounts, the name and location of the financial institutions where deposited, and the average daily activity and balance of each account.
(F) A written description and photographs or drawings of the space proposed for MBF use. The extent and approximate cost of required alterations, including the construction of counters and teller cages.
(G) A statement that recognizes the logistical support, including equipment, to be provided by the local command as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section. The statement will include the costs of such equipment and the manner in which it will be acquired.
(H) In countries where no MBFs currently are operated under contract, a statement from the cognizant Combatant Command that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy and that the host country will permit the operation in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(I) Any other pertinent information to justify the establishment of an MBF.
(ii) As a general rule, MBFs may be established only when the installation or community population meets the following criteria:
(A)
Full-time MBF.
Except in unusual circumstances, a total of at least 1,000 permanent military personnel and DoD civilian employees are necessary to qualify for a full-time MBF.
(B)
Part-time MBF.
Except in unusual circumstances, a total of at least 250 permanent military personnel and DoD civilian employees are necessary to qualify for a part time MBF.
(iii) If the population at a certain remote area is not sufficient to qualify under the criteria for full-time or part-time MBFs, the installation or community commander will explore all other alternatives for acquiring limited banking services before requesting establishment of an MBF as an exception to these provisions. Alternatives to limited banking services include installation of ATMs and check cashing and accommodation exchange service by disbursing officers and their agents.
(iv) Establishment of an overseas MBF is predicated on and requires:
(A) Designation of the MBF contractor as a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government by the Department of the Treasury.
(B) The availability of banking contractors interested in bidding for the
operation of the facility and the viability of such proposals.
(C) The availability of appropriated funds to underwrite such banking services.
(D) Establishment of a U.S. dollar currency custody account to support banking operations.
(2)
Other overseas banking offices.
Where a need for financial services has been identified and either the banking and currency control laws of certain host countries do not permit MBFs to operate on DoD installations or MBFs, where permitted, have not been established, then the following applies:
(i) Installation or community commanders shall send requests for banking services or unsolicited proposals from foreign banking institutions to their Major Commands with supporting data as required in § 231.5(b)(1).
(ii) Major Commands shall forward installation or community commander requests to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for approval. The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall coordinate with the DFAS to seek the designation of the parent foreign banking institution as a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government by the Department of the Treasury.
(iii) Banking offices in this category cannot become operational until the foreign parent banking institution has been designated a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government. The institution also shall indicate a willingness and ability to provide collateral backing for any official and nonappropriated fund U.S. dollar deposits. Any collateral pledged shall be in a form acceptable to the DFAS and the Department of the Treasury.
(c)
Logistical support
—(1)
Overseas MBFs operated under contract.
(i) Given that appropriated funds support those MBFs that are operated under contract, installation or community commanders shall provide the MBFs logistical support to the maximum possible extent. Such support normally includes:
(A) Adequate office space, including steel bars; grillwork; security doors; a vault, safes, or both; security alarm systems and camera surveillance equipment (where deemed necessary) that meet documented requirements of the MBF contractor's insurance carrier; construction of counters, teller cages, and customer and work areas; necessary modifications and alterations to existing buildings; and construction of new MBF premises, if necessary.
(
1
) The size and arrangement of space should permit efficient operations. Space assigned may not exceed that prescribed in DoD 4270.1-M.
(
2
) All maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, alterations, or construction for banking offices shall comply with guidelines established by the installation commander.
(B) Office space in a building that is accessible to most users and permits the maximum security. In addition, office space for MBF area and district administrations and storage space for retention of records, files, and storage of supplies.
(C) DoD housing on a rental basis to assigned MBF staff that are designated as key and essential MBF managerial personnel who are unable to find suitable, reasonably priced housing in the vicinity of the DoD installation, subject to the assignment procedures and other requirements of DoD 4165.63-M.
11
11
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(D) Education, on a space-available, tuition-paying basis, provided by the Department of Defense Education Activity to minor dependents of assigned staff in accordance with DoD Directive 1342.13.
12
12
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(E) Air conditioning, which is considered a normal utility for banking offices located at installations that qualify for air conditioning under applicable regulations. Banking space is classified as administrative space at military installations.
(F) Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal).
(G) Defense Switched Network (DSN) voice and data communication to include, where feasible, Internet access.
(H) Military guards, civilian guards (for use within the installation), military police, or other protective services to accompany shipments of money. This level of protective service also shall be provided at other times as required to include replenishment of ATM currency and receipts, alarm system failures, and to avoid undue risks or insurance costs on the part of the MBF.
(I) U.S. Military Postal Service access in accordance with DoD Directive 4525.6.
13
Use of free intra-theater delivery system (IDS) is authorized for all routine mail sent and received between Army Post Offices (APOs) and Fleet Post Offices (FPOs) within a theater.
13
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(J) Office equipment and furniture on memorandum receipt if available from local stock. If office equipment or furniture is unavailable, statements of nonavailability shall be issued.
(K) Vehicle registration and fuel sales from government-owned facilities for bank-operated vehicles, if not in conflict with host government agreements. Vehicle registration shall be subject to normal fees.
(L) Issuance by local commanders of invitational travel orders, at no expense to the U.S. Government when required for official onsite visits by U.S. based banking institution officials.
(ii) Suggestions for changes to the logistical support provisions of the MBF contract may be forwarded for consideration through command channels to the Director, DFAS.
(2)
Other overseas banking offices.
(i) Logistical support provided to such offices will be negotiated with the parent foreign banking institution and incorporated into the written operating agreement.
(ii) Logistical support shall not exceed that provided to contract MBFs, as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Operations
—(1)
General conditions of MBF operation.
(i) Before initiating MBF operations, a written agreement shall be negotiated directly and signed by the installation or community commander and a senior official of the banking contractor or other financial institution concerned. One copy of the agreement with U.S. banking contractors and two copies of the agreement with institutions other than U.S. banking contractors shall be forwarded through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall forward one copy of the agreement with institutions other than U.S. banking contractors through command channels to the Director, DFAS. A copy of the agreement also shall be maintained at all times by the installation or community commander and the banking institution manager.
(ii) For MBFs operated by U.S. banking contractors, the agreement shall state operating details not set forth in the contract. Though the contract limits the number of operating hours per week, local commanders and MBF managers should set days and hours of operation to best meet local needs. Operating times may include Saturdays and evening hours when necessary to complement other retail services for DoD personnel, provided the contractor can implement that service at no additional cost to the government. When added cost is involved, the commander shall send a request including reasons for expanded or modified times of operation, through command channels, to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for action. If approved, the request, with recommendations, shall be forwarded to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
(2)
Overseas MBFs operated under contract
—(i)
General.
Overseas MBFs shall operate under terms and conditions established at the time of contract negotiations and confirmed in respective contracts or contracting officer determinations.
(ii)
Authorized customers.
DoD banking contracts specify the personnel authorized to receive service. Additionally, overseas major commanders may approve banking services for other individuals that qualify for individual logistic support under the regulations of the DoD Component concerned, provided that the use of banking services is not precluded by status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(iii)
Services rendered.
DoD banking contracts specify the services to be rendered and related charges. Suggestions for expansion or modification of authorized services, fees or charges may be forwarded through DoD Component channels to the Director, DFAS. Proposals for any new service must be coordinated with the appropriate Combatant Command and U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy to make certain that the proposal does not conflict with the status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(iv)
Regulation to be provided.
The Director, DFAS (or designee) shall advise each U.S. banking contractor operating an overseas MBF of this Regulation and furnish a copy to the contractor.
(v)
Conditions of operation.
(A) Part-time and payday service MBFs shall provide limited services that mirror, to the extent feasible, those provided by full-time MBFs. Since part-time MBFs operate out of nearby MBFs, installation or community commanders shall provide and fund transportation and guards for their operation.
(B) Any deficiency of banking services under DoD banking contracts shall be reported to the manager of the MBF within 7 calendar days of noting the deficiency. If the problem has not been corrected within 30 calendar days after being noted, the commander shall report the problem through DoD Component channels to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
(C) The MBF contractor and military disbursing officers shall establish cash management practices that minimize the cash required conducting business.
(D) Commanders shall assist MBF contractors to develop and update contingency plans for banking services in the event of hostilities or other emergencies.
(E) MBF provision of foreign currency shall be in accordance with Volume 5, Chapter 13 of The DoD Financial Management Regulation (DoD 7000.14-R).
(3)
Other overseas banking offices
—(i)
Authorized customers.
The list of authorized customers shall be negotiated between the installation commander and the foreign banking institution and shall be reflected in the operating agreement. The list of authorized customers included in the operating agreement shall be consistent with the applicable status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(ii)
Services rendered.
Services and charges shall parallel, whenever practical, the services and charges of MBFs operated under contract. Specific services shall be negotiated and included in the agreement with the foreign banking institution. A copy of the agreement shall be sent through DoD Component channels to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
(iii)
Operating agreements.
Before agreements are executed, they will be coordinated with and approved by the cognizant Combatant Command (or designee).
(iv)
Conditions of operation.
A foreign banking institution shall provide equipment (except that furnished by the installation or community), supplies, and trained personnel.
(4)
Relocation of MBF.
(i) When an MBF is moved from one location to another at the same installation or community, the commander shall notify the cognizant Military Department, through command channels. The Military Department shall forward the information to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
(ii) For all other relocations, prior approval from the Director, DFAS (or designee) shall be obtained through DoD Component channels.
(5)
Comments.
Installation or community commanders shall send their banking comments through DoD Component channels to the Director, DFAS (or designee) for any of the following:
(i) Major changes in installation population that would affect use of the MBF.
(ii) Opinion that the space assigned is not adequate for the efficient operation of the MBF including a statement concerning corrective action.
(iii) Suggestions that might improve the MBF operation, increase efficiency, or decrease costs.
(iv) Pending developments that may have a material impact on the MBF operation.
(6)
Bank liaison officer.
The duties of the BLO are outlined in § 231.5(h).
(e)
Termination.
Requests to eliminate any or all MBFs in a foreign country shall include documentation that the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission has been informed and that arrangement for local termination announcements and procedures have been made with the U.S. Embassy.
(1)
Overseas MBFs operated under contract.
In cases where an installation or community no longer can justify overseas MBF operations, the commander shall notify the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) through command channels.
(i) The report shall state whether a part-time MBF should be established and specify the days each week that the MBF would be needed.
(ii) The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall send this report with recommendations to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
(2)
Other overseas banking offices.
Termination actions, when required, shall be taken in accordance with the applicable clauses in the operating agreement. Notice of intent to terminate, including the closing date, shall be sent through DoD Component channels to Director, DFAS (or designee), who shall notify the Department of the Treasury so that the foreign banking institution's authority as a Depositary and Financial Agent of the U.S. Government at that location may be revoked.
§ 231.7
Procedures—domestic credit unions.
(a)
General policy.
Given their role in promoting morale and welfare, on-base credit unions shall be recognized and assisted by DoD Components at all levels. These financial institutions shall provide services to DoD personnel of all ranks and grades within their respective fields of membership.
(b)
Establishment.
A demonstrated need for credit union services may be addressed by establishing a new full-service credit union or by opening a branch office or facility of an existing credit union under the common bond principle.
(1) DoD personnel seeking to establish a new full-service credit union shall submit a proposal to the installation commander for review. In addition to the information identified in § 231.5(b)(1), the proposal shall include a request for the establishment of a field of membership that includes all personnel at the installation. Upon installation commander concurrence, the proposal shall be forwarded through DoD Component channels to the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee).
(2) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall:
(i) Obtain a list of credit unions that could establish eligibility to serve the installation's military members and civilian employees from the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) Regional Office that has geographic jurisdiction and the applicable state regulatory agency.
(ii) Prepare and send formal solicitation letters to eligible credit unions informing them of an opportunity to establish a branch office at the installation.
(iii) In coordination with the installation commander, establish the criteria for selection of a specific credit union in accordance with § 231.5(c)(4). Proposals shall be evaluated, and a selection made, based upon the factors and weights developed for the solicitation.
(3) Upon approval by the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee), the NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency shall be notified and asked to establish or amend the selected credit union's charter to include the new location.
(4) No commitment may be made to a credit union regarding its proposal until the appropriate regulatory agency has approved the requested charter change.
(c)
Terminations
—(1)
Voluntary credit union terminations.
(i) When a credit union plans to end operations on a DoD installation, it shall be required to notify the installation commander 180 days before the closing date. Such notification shall be required to precede public announcement of the planned closure. When appropriate, the commander shall attempt to negotiate an agreement permitting the credit union to continue operations until the installation has made other arrangements.
(ii) The installation commander shall inform the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) immediately upon receiving notification of a closing. The report shall include a recommendation about continued credit union service on the installation. Paragraph (b) of this section applies if continued service is needed.
(2)
Termination for cause.
If, after discussion with credit union officials, an installation commander determines that the operating policies of a credit union are inconsistent with this Regulation, a recommendation for termination of logistical support and space arrangements may be made through the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). A credit union shall be removed from the installation only with approval of the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) after coordination with the USD(C) through the Director, DFAS, and the appropriate regulatory agency.
(3)
Termination in the interest of national defense.
At the option of the government, leases may be terminated in the event of national emergency or as a result of installation deactivation, closing, or other disposal action.
(4)
Termination resulting from merger, acquisition, or change of control.
When merger, acquisition, change of control or other action results in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall, subsequent to coordination with the USD(C), through the Director, DFAS, terminate the operating agreement with the existing credit union. When the merger, acquisition, change of control or other action does not result in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall initiate a novation action of the operating agreement identifying the change in control.
(5)
Termination of lease.
The lessee shall provide written notice 180 days prior to a voluntary termination of the lease. Upon lease termination, the government has the option to cause the title of all structures and other improvements to be conveyed to the United States without reimbursement, or require the lessee to remove the improvements and restore the land to its original condition.
(d)
Use of space, logistical support, and military real property for domestic credit unions
—(1)
Criteria for use of space in Government-owned real property.
(i) Criteria governing the assignment of space and construction of new space for credit unions are in DoD 4270.1-M.
(ii) A credit union may be furnished space on a DoD installation at one or more locations for periods not exceeding 5 years except where the credit union uses its own funds to improve existing government space as outlined in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(C) and (d)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. The cumulative total of space furnished shall be subject to the limitations of DoD 4270.1-M.
(A) The furnishing of office space (including ATM placement) to on-base credit unions is governed by section 170 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770). The provision of no-cost office space for a period not to exceed 5 years is limited to credit unions if at least 95 percent of the membership to be served by the allotment of space is composed of individuals who are, or who were at the time of admission into the credit union, military personnel or federal employees, or members of their families. A written statement to the effect that the credit union meets the 95 percent criterion shall be required to justify and document the allotment of free government space. This statement shall be prepared on the credit union's letterhead and signed either by the chairman of the board of directors or the president. A certification also shall be required whenever there is a merger, takeover, or significant change in a field of membership. This certification shall serve as justification and documentation for the continued allocation of free government space including space renovated with credit union funds. The statement shall be updated every 5 years and on renewal of each no-cost permit or license. (See appendix C of this part for a sample format of the statement.)
(B) Credit unions that fail to meet the 95 percent criterion shall be charged fair market rental for space provided. Except where more than one credit union exists on an installation
prior to June 9, 2000, credit unions giving less than full service or not serving all assigned DoD personnel are not authorized no-cost office space.
(C) When a credit union that meets the 95 percent criterion uses its own funds to expand, modify, or renovate government-owned space, it may be provided a no-cost permit or license for a period commensurate with the extent of the improvements not to exceed 25 years as determined by the DoD Component concerned. The permit or license shall be effective until the agreed date of expiration or until the credit union ceases to satisfy the 95 percent criterion. In this latter case, the no-cost permit shall be cancelled in favor of a lease immediately negotiated at fair market value under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. If the credit union desires, this permit or license may extend through the period identified in the original permit or license not to exceed 25 years.
(D) Similarly, a credit union not meeting the 95 percent criterion that uses its own funds to expand, modify, or renovate government-owned space, may be provided a lease at fair market value for a period not to exceed 25 years subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value. Duration of this lease shall be commensurate with the extent of the improvements as determined by the DoD Component concerned.
(iii) All space assigned by the GSA, whether leased or in a federal office building, is reimbursable to the GSA at the standard level user charge. Consequently, the GSA shall charge the benefiting DoD Component for any space assigned for credit union operations. Such space is subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Logistical support.
When available, custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal), heating and air conditioning, utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water, and sewage), fixtures, and maintenance shall be furnished without cost to credit unions occupying no-cost office space in government buildings. With the exception of intrastation telephone service, credit unions shall be required to pay for all communication services to include telephone lines, long distance data services and Internet connections. Credit unions also shall pay for space alterations. Should a credit union fail to meet the 95 percent membership criterion, any logistical support furnished shall be on a reimbursable basis.
(3) Leases executed before the issuance of this part may not be altered solely as a result of the provisions of this part unless a lessee specifically requests a renegotiation under these provisions. No lease may be negotiated or renegotiated, nor may any rights be waived or surrendered without compensation to the government.
(4) When a credit union participates in the construction of a shopping mall complex the lease shall cover only land where the branch or facility physically is located.
(5)
Administrative fees.
All administrative fees associated with the initiation, modification, or renewal of an outgrant shall be borne by the installation, provided that the credit union satisfies the 95 percent membership criterion requirement for no-cost office space as outlined paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, and that the fees are associated with the no-cost space.
(e)
Land leases.
Credit unions entering into a land lease to construct a building on a DoD installation shall do so in accordance with § 231.5(f).
(f)
Construction.
Credit unions constructing a building on a DoD installation shall do so in accordance with § 231.5(g).
(g) Credit unions offering ATM service shall do so in accordance with § 231.4(d).
(h)
Staffing.
(1) On-base credit unions shall provide full service. To do so, credit union offices shall be staffed by:
(i) An official authorized to act on loan applications.
(ii) An individual authorized to sign checks; and
(iii) A qualified financial counselor available to serve members during operating hours.
(2) Exceptions to paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section may be approved by the installation commander with advice
from the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) in the case of newly organized credit unions.
(3) When an on-base credit union can support only minimum staffing, one of the positions required in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section or paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section also may be subsumed under the counselor duties.
(4) Credit union remote service locations at the same installation may be staffed with one person alone, provided that a direct courier or an electronic or automated message service links each remote location to the credit union's main office.
(i)
Credit union liaison officer (CULO).
When a credit union office is located on an installation, the commander shall appoint a CULO. As appropriate, the CULO responsibility should be assigned to comptroller or resource management personnel. The CULO's name and duty telephone number shall be displayed prominently at each credit union office on the installation. Anyone who serves as a credit union board member or in any other official credit union capacity may not serve as a CULO. The duties of a CULO are the same as the duties listed for a BLO (see § 231.5(h)).
(j)
In-store banking.
In-store banking services may be provided in accordance with § 231.5(i) except that:
(1) Credit unions interested in submitting proposals to provide requested in-store banking services shall provide a statement from the NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency certifying the credit union's authority to offer the requested financial services to the commissary, Military Exchange, or other on-base facilities.
(2) Space granted to a credit union selected to provide in-store banking services should be issued through a no-cost license in accordance with section 170 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770).
§ 231.8
Procedures—overseas credit unions.
(a)
General policy.
(1) Credit union services to authorized persons and organizations may be provided by domestic on-base credit unions operating under a geographic franchise.
(2) The extension of credit union service overseas is encouraged consistent with the principles prescribed for domestic credit unions and with applicable status of forces agreements or other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(3) Where permitted by the status of forces agreements or other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law, only federal credit unions or federally insured state chartered credit unions may operate on overseas DoD installations. The ultimate decision to provide services overseas rests with the credit union itself.
(b)
Establishment.
(1) Commanders shall notify the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), through command channels, when overseas credit union services are needed. Such requests shall include:
(i) Full information about available space and logistical support.
(ii) The name and location of the nearest credit union facility or branch.
(iii) The distance between the installation and the nearest credit union facility or branch.
(iv) The availability of any official or public transportation.
(v) The number of DoD personnel in duty assignments that confine them to the installation or who cannot obtain transportation (such as hospital patients).
(vi) In countries not presently served, a statement concurred in by the cognizant Combatant Command that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy. The statement shall include that the host country will permit credit union operations and will indicate any conditions imposed by the host country with respect to those operations.
(2) Subsequent to approval of the request from the installation or community commander to establish an overseas credit union facility, the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall solicit proposals for the provision of full credit union services under the following provisions.
(i) Where there is a DoD designated geographic franchise with a specific field of membership, the Secretary of
the Military Department (or designee) shall direct the installation or community commander to contact the supporting credit union and request that a branch or facility be established. The basic decision concerning such extensions of service rests with the servicing credit union. The Director, DFAS (or designee) shall maintain a listing of all geographic franchises assigned to credit unions serving DoD overseas installations.
(ii) Where there is no DoD designated geographic franchise, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall:
(A) Coordinate requests, through the Director, DFAS (or designee), to obtain a geographic franchise. A geographic franchise is the authorization granted to a credit union by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (OUSD(C)) to provide financial services in a specific geographic region located outside the United States, its territories and possessions.
(B) Solicit proposals from credit unions currently operating on DoD installations.
(C) Review proposals of interested credit unions.
(D) Coordinate with field commands, as needed.
(E) Recommend selection to the NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency with a copy to the DFAS and the OUSD(C), requesting that the appropriate field of membership adjustment be made. Such a recommendation shall identify the primary installations on which the credit union would operate and, if applicable, the contiguous geographic boundaries for future facilities and branches.
(3) Where there is an existing field of membership, the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall take the following actions:
(i) If a credit union on an installation terminates operation, afford any other credit union having a geographic franchise within that country an opportunity to assume the franchise being vacated. If all such institutions decline, the geographic franchise shall be offered to the federally insured credit union community. If, as a result of a credit union decision to decline service to an installation or a termination action, another credit union:
(A) Offers to provide service.
(B) Meets host country requirements (if any) and
(C) Is assigned the former geographic franchise or portion thereof, the NCUA or the applicable state regulatory agency shall be notified and requested to make appropriate field of membership adjustments.
(ii) When other credit union(s) having a geographic franchise within a country decline the opportunity, or there is no other credit union having a franchise within that country, the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.
(4) No commitment may be made to a credit union regarding its proposal until the appropriate regulatory agency has announced a selection.
(c)
Logistical support.
Installation or community commanders shall provide logistical credit union support. Such support normally shall include:
(1) Adequate office space, including steel bars; grillwork; security doors; a vault, safes or both; security alarm systems and camera surveillance equipment (where deemed necessary) that meet documented requirements of the credit union's insurance carrier; construction of counters, teller cages, and customer and work areas; necessary modifications and alterations to existing buildings. The size and arrangement of space should permit efficient operations. The credit union shall pay for all improvements to the space given. Space assigned may not exceed that prescribed in DoD 4270.1-M.
(2) DoD housing on a rental basis to key credit union personnel unable to find suitable, reasonably priced housing in the vicinity of the DoD installation, if available.
(3) Education, on a space-available, tuition-paying basis, provided by the Department of Defense Education Activity to minor dependents of assigned staff in accordance with DoD Directive 1342.13.
(4) Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services.
(5) DSN voice and data communication to include, where feasible, internet access.
(6) U.S. Military Postal Service support under DoD Directive 4525.6. The use of free intra-theater delivery system (IDS) is authorized for all routine mail sent and received between Army Post Offices (APOs) and Fleet Post Offices (FPOs) within a theater.
(7) Military guards, civilian guards (for use within the installation), military police, or other protective services to accompany shipments of money from the MBF to the credit union and return where it is impractical or not authorized to have a local armored car service or civilian police authorities entering a military installation to provide cash escort service or when the cost of obtaining such service is prohibitive. This level of protective service also shall be provided at other times as required to include replenishment of ATM currency and receipts, alarm system failures, and to avoid undue risks or insurance costs.
(d)
Travel.
Travel by credit union officials must be at no expense to the U.S. Government. Overseas commanders may issue invitational travel orders for official on-base visits by credit union officials at no cost to the U.S. Government.
(e)
Operations.
(1) An overseas credit union shall confine its field of membership to individuals or organizations eligible by law or regulation to receive services and benefits from the installation. Services shall not be provided to those personnel precluded such services by the applicable status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(2) The Department assigns overseas credit unions a prescribed geographic franchise. Any credit union, however, may continue to serve its members stationed overseas by mail or telecommunications, to include access to the Internet.
(3) A credit union proposing a new service to be offered by a branch office that is not authorized by the operating agreement shall coordinate the establishment of the new service through the cognizant Component command to the Combatant Command. The new service shall be offered only after the appropriate command's approval and coordination with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy to ensure that the service does not conflict with the applicable status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(4) Credit unions that operate full service branches shall have U.S. currency and coin available for member transactions. In areas served by currency custody accounts, transactional U. S. currency and coins shall be made available from the servicing MBF with no direct or analysis charge to the credit union, provided settlement is made via the local MBF account or equivalent arrangements are made with the MBF.
(5) In countries served by MBFs operated under contract, credit unions shall purchase foreign currency only from the servicing MBF.
(i) The bulk rate purchase price shall apply to currency used by the credit union to make payments to vendors or to make payroll payments.
(ii) Credit unions that desire and are authorized to provide accommodation exchange services to its members shall acquire foreign currency from the servicing MBF at the MBF wholesale rate and sell it at a rate of exchange no more favorable than that available to customers of the MBF.
(6) Credit unions operating under a geographic franchise on an overseas DoD installation shall not publicize, display or sell vehicles on the installation.
(7) The NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency may review operations of overseas credit union offices either when it examines the main credit union or at other times of its choosing. For federally insured, state chartered credit unions, the applicable state regulatory agency also may examine credit unions operations.
§ 231.9
Definitions.
(a)
Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
An electronic machine that dispenses cash, and may perform such other functions as funds transfers among a customer's various accounts and acceptance of deposits. Equipment generally
is activated by a plastic card in combination with a personal identification number (PIN). Typically, when the cardholder's account is with a financial institution other than that operating the ATM, its use results in the assessment of a fee from the ATM network (e.g., Armed Forces Financial Network (AFFN), Cirrus, or PLUS) that processes the transaction.
(b)
Banking institution.
An entity chartered by a state or the federal government to provide financial services.
(c)
Banking office.
A branch bank, or independent bank operated by a banking institution on a domestic DoD installation or by a foreign banking institution on an overseas DoD installation.
(d)
Branch bank.
A separate unit chartered to operate at an on-base location geographically remote from its parent banking institution.
(e)
Credit union.
A cooperative nonprofit association, incorporated under the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
), or similar state statute, for the purposes of encouraging thrift among its members and creating a source of credit at a fair and reasonable rate of interest.
(f)
Credit union facility.
A facility employing a communications system with the parent credit union to conduct business at remote locations where a full-service credit union or credit union branch is impractical. Credit union facilities need not provide cash transaction services but must disburse loans and shares by check or draft and provide competent financial counseling during normal working hours.
(g)
Discrimination.
Any differential treatment in provision of services, including loan services, by a financial institution to DoD personnel and their dependents on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, rank, or grade.
(h)
DoD Component.
For the purposes of this part, DoD Components include the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Joint Staff and the supporting Joint Agencies, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, all nonappropriated fund instrumentalities including the Military Exchange Services, and morale, welfare and recreation activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense.
(i)
DoD Personnel.
All military personnel; DoD civil service employees; other civilian employees, including special government employees of all offices, Agencies, and Departments performing functions on a DoD installation (including nonappropriated fund instrumentalities); and their dependents. On domestic DoD installations, retired U.S. military personnel and their dependents are included.
(j)
Domestic DoD installation.
For the purposes of this Regulation, a military installation located within a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(k)
Fair market rental.
A reasonable charge for on-base land, buildings, or building space. Rental is determined by a government appraisal based on comparable properties in the local civilian economy. The appraiser, however, shall consider that on-base property may not always be comparable to similar property in the local commercial geographic area. Examples of circumstances that may affect fair market rental include limitations of usage and access to the financial institution by persons other than those on the installation, proximity to the community center or installation business district, and the government's right to terminate the lease or take title to improvements constructed at the financial institution's expense.
(l)
Field of membership.
A group of people entitled to credit union membership because of a common bond of occupation, association, employment, or residence within a well-defined neighborhood, community, rural district, and other persons sharing a common bond as described by credit union board of directors policy or by Interpretation Ruling and Policy Statement (IRPS) 99-1. A field of membership is defined in the credit union's charter by the appropriate regulatory agency.
(m)
Financial institution.
This term encompasses any banking institution,
credit union, thrift institution and subordinate office branch or facility, each as separately defined herein.
(n)
Financial services.
Those services commonly associated with financial institutions in the United States, such as electronic banking (e.g., ATMs and personal computing banking), in-store banking, checking, share and savings accounts, funds transfers, sales of official checks, money orders, and travelers checks, loan services, safe deposit boxes, trust services, sale and redemption of U.S. Savings Bonds, and acceptance of utility payments and any other services provided by financial institutions.
(o)
Foreign banking institution.
A bank located outside the United States chartered by the country in which it is domiciled.
(p)
Full service credit union.
A credit union that provides full-time counter transaction services, to include cash operations, and is staffed during normal working hours by a loan officer, a person authorized to sign checks, and a qualified financial counselor. In overseas areas, “full service” includes cash operations where not prevented by:
(1) Status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(2) Physical security requirements that cannot be resolved by the credit union or local command.
(q)
Geographic franchise.
Authorization granted to a credit union by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) to provide financial services in a specific geographic region located outside the United States, its territories and possessions.
(r)
Independent bank.
A bank specifically chartered to operate on one or more DoD installations whose directors and officers usually come from the local business and professional community. Such operations are thus differentiated from county-wide or state-wide branch systems consisting of a head office and one or more geographically separate branch offices.
(s)
In-store banking.
An expansion of financial services provided by an on-base financial institution within the premises of a commissary store operated by the Defense Commissary Agency, a Military Exchange outlet, and other on-base retail facilities.
(t)
Malpractice.
Any unreasonable lack of skill or fidelity in fiduciary duties or the intentional violation of an applicable law or regulation or both that governs the operations of the financial institution. A violation shall be considered intentional if the responsible officials know that the applicable action or inaction violated a law or regulation.
(u)
Military banking facility (MBF).
A banking office located on a DoD installation and operated by a financial institution that the Department of the Treasury specifically has authorized, under its designation as a “Depository and Financial Agent of the U.S. Government,” to provide certain banking services at the installation.
(v)
National bank.
An association approved and chartered by the Comptroller of the Currency to operate a banking business.
(w)
On-base.
Refers to physical presence on a domestic or overseas DoD installation.
(x)
Operating agreement.
A mutual agreement between the installation commander and the on-base financial institution to document their relationships.
(y)
Overseas DoD installation.
A military installation (or community) located outside the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(z)
Part-time MBF.
A MBF that operates fewer than 5 days a week exclusive of additional payday service. When only payday service is provided, the MBF may be termed a “payday service facility.”
(aa)
Regulatory Agency.
Includes the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the respective Federal Reserve Banks; the National Credit Union Administration; Office of Thrift Supervision; the various state agencies and commissions that oversee financial institutions; and, for military banking facilities (MBFs), the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (or designee).
(bb)
State bank.
An institution organized and chartered under the laws of one of the states of the United States to operate a banking business within that state.
(cc)
Thrift institution.
An institution organized and chartered under federal or state law as a Savings Bank, Savings Association, or Savings and Loan Association.
[66 FR 46708, Sept. 7, 2001; 66 FR 54136, Oct. 26, 2001]

# Subpart B—DoD Directive 1000.11
§ 231.10
Financial institutions on DoD installations.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart:
(1) Updates policies and responsibilities for financial institutions that serve Department of Defense (DoD) personnel on DoD installations worldwide. Associated procedures are contained in subpart A of this part.
(2) Prescribes consistent arrangements for the provision of services by financial institutions among the DoD Components, and requires that financial institutions operating on DoD installations provide, and are provided, support consistent with the policies stated herein.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter collectively referred to as “the DoD Components”), and all nonappropriated fund instrumentalities including the Military Exchange Services and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) activities.
(c)
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are set forth in subpart A of this part.
(d)
Policy.
(1) The following pertains to financial institutions on DoD installations:
(i) Except where they already may exist as of May 1, 2000, no more than one banking institution and one credit union shall be permitted to operate on a DoD installation.
(ii) Upon the request of an installation commander and with the approval of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), duly chartered financial institutions may be authorized to provide financial services on DoD installations to enhance the morale and welfare of DoD personnel and facilitate the administration of public and quasi-public monies. Arrangement for the provision of such services shall be in accordance with this subpart and the applicable provisions of subpart A of this part.
(iii) Financial institutions or branches thereof, shall be established on DoD installations only after approval by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) and the appropriate regulatory agency.
(A) Except in limited situations overseas (see paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) of this section), only banking institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and credit unions insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund or by another insurance organization specifically qualified by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall operate on DoD installations. These financial institutions may either be State or federally chartered; however, U.S. credit unions operated overseas shall be federally insured.
(B) Military banking facilities (MBFs) shall be established on DoD installations only when a demonstrated and justified need cannot be met through other means. An MBF is a financial institution that is established by the Department of the Treasury under statutory authority that is separate from State or Federal laws that govern commercial banking. Section 265 of title 12, United States Code contains the provisions for the Department of the Treasury to establish MBFs. Normally, MBFs shall be authorized only at overseas locations. This form of financial institution may be considered for use at domestic DoD installations only when the cognizant DoD Component has been unable to obtain, through normal means, financial services from a State or federally chartered financial institution authorized to operate in the State in which the installation is located. In times of mobilization, it may become necessary to
designate additional MBFs as an emergency measure. The Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) may recommend the designation of MBFs to the Department of the Treasury.
(C) Retail banking operations shall not be performed by any DoD Component. Solicitations for such services shall be issued, or proposals accepted, only in accordance with the policies identified in this subpart. The DoD Components shall rely on commercially available sources in accordance with DoD Directive 4100.15.
14
14
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(iv) Installation commanders shall not seek the provision of financial services from any entity other than the on-base banking office or credit union. The Director, DFAS, with the concurrence of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)), may approve exceptions to this policy.
(v) Financial institutions authorized to locate on DoD installations shall be provided logistic support as set forth in subpart A of this part.
(vi) Military disbursing offices, nonappropriated fund instrumentalities (including MWR activities and the Military Exchange Services) and other DoD Component activities requiring financial services shall use on-base financial institutions to the maximum extent feasible.
(vii) The Department encourages the delivery of retail financial services on DoD installations via nationally networked automated teller machines (ATMs).
(A) ATMs are considered electronic banking services and, as such, shall be provided only by financial institutions that are chartered and insured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(B) Proposals by the installation commander to install ATMs from other than on-base financial institutions shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(viii) Expansion of financial services (to include in-store banking) requiring the outgrant of additional space or logistical support shall be approved by the installation commander. Any DoD activity or financial institution seeking to expand financial services shall coordinate such requests with the installation bank/credit union liaison officer prior to the commander's consideration.
(ix) The installation commander shall ensure, to the maximum extent feasible, that all financial institutions operating on that installation are given the opportunity to participate in pilot programs to demonstrate new financial-related technology or establish new business lines (e.g., in-store banking) where a determination has been made by the respective DoD Component that the offering of such services is warranted.
(x) The installation commander shall approve requests for termination of financial services that are substantiated by sufficient evidence and forwarded to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall coordinate such requests with the USD(C), through the Director, DFAS, before notification to the appropriate regulatory agency.
(xi) Additional guidance pertaining to financial services is set forth in subpart A of this part.
(2) The following additional provisions pertain to only to financial institutions on overseas DoD installations:
(i) The extension of services by MBFs and credit unions overseas shall be consistent with the policies stated herein and with the applicable status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(ii) Financial services at overseas DoD installations may be provided by:
(A) Domestic on-base credit unions operating overseas under a geographic franchise and, where applicable, as authorized by the pertinent status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(B) MBFs operated under and authorized by the pertinent status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreement, or host-country law.
(C) Domestic and foreign banks located on overseas DoD installations that are:
(
1
) Chartered to provide financial services in that country, and
(
2
) A party to a formal operating agreement with the installation commander to provide such services, and
(
3
) Identified, where applicable, in the status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.
(iii) In countries served by MBFs operated under contract, nonappropriated fund instrumentalities and on-base credit unions that desire, and are authorized, to provide accommodation exchange services shall acquire foreign currency from the MBF at the MBF accommodation rate; and shall sell such foreign currency at a rate of exchange that is no more favorable to the customer than the customer rate available at the MBF.
(e)
Responsibilities.
(1) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) shall develop policies governing establishment, operation, and termination of financial institutions on DoD installations and take final action on requests for exceptions to this subpart.
(2) The Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics) (USD(AT
L)) shall monitor policies and procedures governing logistical support furnished to financial institutions on DoD installations, including the use of DoD real property and equipment.
(3) The Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) (USD(P
R)) shall advise the USD(C) on all aspects of on-base financial institution services that affect the morale and welfare of DoD personnel.
(4) DoD Component responsibilities pertaining to this subpart are set forth in subpart A of this part.

# Subpart C—Guidelines for Application of the Privacy Act to Financial Institution Operations
§ 231.11
Guidelines.
(a) The following guidelines govern the application of DoD Directive 5400.11
15
to those financial institutions that operate under this part:
15
See footnote 1 to § 231.1(a).
(1) Financial institutions and their branches and facilities operating on DoD military installations do not fall within the purview of 5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
(i) These financial institutions do not fit the definition of “agency” to which the Privacy Act applies, that is, any executive department, Military Department, government corporation, government-controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President), or an independent regulatory agency (5 U.S.C. 552(e) and 552a(a)(1)).
(ii) These financial institutions are not “government contractors” within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552a(o), as they do not operate a system of records on behalf of an agency to accomplish an agency function. According to the Office of Management and Budget Privacy Act Guidelines, the provision relating to government contractors applies only to systems of records actually taking the place of a federal system which, but for the contract, would have been performed by an agency and covered by the Privacy Act. Clearly, the subject institutions do not meet these criteria.
(iii) Since the Act does not apply to them, these financial institutions are not required to comply with 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) in obtaining and making use of personal information in their relationships with personnel authorized to use such institutions. Thus, these institutions are not required to inform individuals from whom information is requested of the authority for its solicitation, the principal purpose for which it is intended to be used, the routine uses that may be made of it, or the effects of not providing the information. There also is no requirement to post information of this nature within on-base banking and credit union offices.
(2) The financial institutions concerned hold the same position and relationship to their account holders, members, and to the government as they did before enactment of OMB Circular A-130. Within their usual business relationships, they still are responsible for safeguarding the information provided by their account holders or members and for obtaining only
such information as is reasonable and necessary to conduct business. This includes credit information and proper identification, which may include social security number, as a precondition for the cashing of checks.
(3) Financial institutions may incorporate the following conditions of disclosure of personal identification in all contracts, including loan agreements, account signature cards, certificates of deposit agreements, and any other agreements signed by their account holders or members:
I hereby authorize the Department of Defense and its various Components to verify my social security number or other identifier and disclose my home address to authorized (name of financial institution) officials so that they may contact me in connection with my business with (name of financial institution). All information furnished will be used solely in connection with my financial relationship with (name of financial institution).
(ii) When the financial institution presents such signed authorizations, the receiving military command or installation shall provide the appropriate information.
(4) Even though an agreement described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section has not been obtained, the Department of Defense may provide these financial institutions with salary information and, when pertinent, the length or type of civilian or military appointment, consistent with DoD Directives 5400.11 and 5400.7.
16
Some examples of personal information pertaining to DoD personnel that normally can be released without creating an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy are name, rank, date of rank, salary, present and past duty assignments, future assignments that have been finalized, office phone number, source of commission, and promotion sequence number.
16
See footnote 1 to 231.1(a).
(5) When DoD personnel with financial obligations are reassigned and fail to inform the financial institution of their whereabouts, they should be located by contacting the individual's last known commander or supervisor at the official position or duty station within that particular DoD Component. That commander or supervisor either shall furnish the individual's new official duty location address to the financial institution, or shall forward, through official channels, any correspondence received pertaining thereto to the individual's new commander or supervisor for appropriate assistance and response. Correspondence addressed to the individual concerned at his or her last official place of business or duty station shall be forwarded as provided by postal regulations to the new location. Once an individual's affiliation with the Department of Defense is terminated through separation or retirement, however, the Department's ability to render locator assistance (i.e., disclose a home address) is severely curtailed unless the public interest dictates disclosure of the last known home address. The Department may, at its discretion, forward correspondence to the individual's last known home address. The Department may not act as an intermediary for private matters concerning former DoD personnel who are no longer affiliated with the Department.
(b) Questions concerning this guidance should be forwarded through channels to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1100.
Pt. 231, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 231—Sample Operating Agreement

# Sample Operating Agreement Between Military Installations and Financial Institutions

# Note:
The following operating agreement template identifies general arrangement and content. Content of the actual operating agreement may vary according to the circumstances of each installation.

# Operating Agreement Between (Name of Installation), (State or Country Installation Located) and (Name of Financial Institution).
This Agreement is made and entered into this day by and between the installation commander of (name of installation) in his or her official capacity as installation commander, hereinafter referred to as the “commander” and the (name of financial institution), having its principal office at (location of home office) hereinafter referred to as the
“financial institution,” together hereinafter referred to as “the parties.” Whereas the commander and the financial institution enter into this Operating Agreement upon the mutual consideration of the promises, covenants, and agreements hereinafter contained.
1. The parties understand and agree that this Agreement shall in no way modify, change, or alter the terms and conditions of Lease Number (number of lease) covering the use of real property described therein, and this Agreement shall continue, subject to the termination provisions herein-after set forth, during the terms of said lease and any extensions thereof. In the case of a banking institution operating a military banking facility (MBF) overseas, this agreement will not change the conditions of the contract between the banking institution and the Department of Defense.
2. The financial institution agrees to operate a (federally or state) chartered office on-base in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in DoD Directive 1000.11, and Volume 5, Chapter 34, of the DoD 7000.14-R (as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) at 32 CFR parts 230 and 231, respectively); and, in addition for the Overseas Military Banking Program (OMBP), the policies and procedures set forth in the applicable DoD contract. The hours of operations shall be between (hour office opens) and (hour office closes), and on the following days (weekdays office open), except on government holidays when the financial institution may be closed. The Program Office for the OMBP shall notify the commander of any changes to the DoD contract.
3. The financial institution shall provide the following services:
a.
Services for Individuals.
(1) Demand (checking) account services.
(2) Cashing personal checks and government checks for accountholders.
(3) Maintaining savings accounts and (any other interestbearing accounts).
(4) Selling official checks, money orders, and traveler's checks.
(5) Selling and redeeming United States savings bonds.
(6) Providing direct deposit service.
(7) Loan services.
(8) Electronic banking (i.e., automated teller machines, internet banking).
b.
Services for disbursing officers.
(1) Furnishing cash (if the financial institution's terms for doing so is consistent with sound management practices).
(2) Accepting deposits for credit to the Treasury General Account (where the financial institution has entered into an agreement with the Department of the Treasury).
c.
Services for nonappropriated fund instrumentalities and private organizations.
(1) Demand (checking) account services, including wire transfers.
(2) Savings accounts and nonnegotiable certificates of deposit or other interestbearing accounts offered by the banking institution.
(3) Currency and coin for change.
4. Service charges shall be as follows:
a.
Service for individuals.
(1) No fees shall be charged to individuals for the services listed in subparagraphs 3.a.(2), and 3.a.(5), above, except for subparagraph 3.a.(2), wherein checks drawn on other financial institutions may be treated in accordance with the financial institution's established policy. Any charge to cash a government check shall not exceed that typically charged by financial institutions in the vicinity of the installation. Fees assessed to accountholders and nonaccountholders for use of automated teller machines shall be the customary service charges of the financial institution or those negotiated for base personnel per the attached schedule.
(2) Checking and savings accounts. Fees for individual checking and savings accounts shall be the customary service charges of the financial institution or those negotiated for base personnel per the attached schedule.
(3) Sale of official checks, money orders, traveler's checks and other types of financial paper. Charges for these services shall be the customary charges of the financial institution operating the on-base office.
b.
Service for Disbursing Officers.
No charge shall be made for the services listed in subparagraph 3.b.(2), above. Compensation to the financial institution shall be per its separate agreement with the Department of the Treasury. Charges, if any, for the services stated in subparagraph 3.b.(1) shall be as locally negotiated with the financial institution.
c.
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Private Organizations.
State the charges or refer to a schedule of charges for funds and organizations that do not participate in a central banking program. For those activities participating in a central banking program, determine the compensation to the financial institution by account analysis.
5. It is agreed that the financial institution shall:
a. Notify the commander or designated representative of any proposed changes to the attached schedule of fees and services at least 30 days prior to implementation.
b. Follow the requirements in Volume 5, Chapter 34, of DoD 7000.14-R, as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), and any changes thereto.
c. Comply with Department of the Treasury requirements for establishment and operation of a Treasury General Account where the financial institution agrees to act as a depository for government funds.
d. Absolve the (Military Service) and its representatives of responsibility or liability for the financial operation of the financial
institution; and for any loss (including losses due to criminal activity), expenses, or claims for damages arising from financial institution operations.
e. Indemnify, and hold harmless the United States from (and against) any loss, expense, claim, or demand, including attorney fees, court costs, and costs of litigation, to which the government may be subjected as a result of death, loss, destruction, or damage in connection with the use and occupancy of (Military Service) premises occasioned in whole or in part by officers, agents or employees of the financial institution operating an office of the financial institution.
f. Favorably respond, whenever feasible, to reasonable local command requests for lectures and printed materials to support consumer credit education programs, financial management program and newcomer's briefings.
g. Prominently post in the lobby of the financial institution the name, duty telephone number of the (Bank or Credit Union) Liaison Officer.
h. Accept the government travel card in all on-base ATMs operated by the financial institution.
i. Abide by the installation fire protection program, including immediate correction of fire hazards noted by the installation fire inspector during periodic fire prevention inspections.
6. The commander shall provide the following space and support:
a. Space requirements for financial institution operations shall be administered in accordance with the existing outgrant (i.e., lease, permit or license). (Show Number of Outgrant).
b. Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating and air conditioning, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal) on a reimbursable basis.
c. DoD housing and minor dependent education in overseas locations for military banking facility (MBF) and credit union personnel in accordance with §§ 231.6(c)(1)(i)(C), 231.6(c)(1)(D), 231.8(c)(2) and 231.8(c)(3).
7. Termination of this Agreement shall be consistent with the termination provision of the real property lease and subpart A. The Secretary of the (Military Department) shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at any time. Any termination of the right of the financial institution to operate on the installation shall render this Agreement terminated without any applicable action by the commander.
8. Any provision of this Agreement that is contrary to or violates any laws, rules, or regulations of the United States, its agencies, or the state of (state in which the financial institution is located) that apply on federal installations shall be void and have no force or effect; however, both parties to this Agreement agree to notify the other party promptly of any known or suspected continuing violation of such laws, rules, or regulations.
9. So long as this Agreement remains in effect, it shall be reviewed jointly by the commander and the financial institution at least once every 5 years to ensure compatibility with current DoD issuances and to determine if any changes are required to the Agreement.
In witness whereof,
the commander, and the financial institution, by their duly authorized office, have hereunto set their hands this day of (month, day, year).
Financial Institution Official
Installation Commander
Pt. 231, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 231—In-Store Banking
A.
Selection Process.
The purpose of this guidance is to assure an impartial and thorough process to select the best on-base financial institution to provide in-store banking services when such services are desired and approved by the installation commander.
1. Consistent with DoD Component delegation, the final decision to solicit for an in-store banking office rests with the installation commander.
2. The DoD Component seeking in-store banking (e.g., in buildings operated by the Defense Commissary Agency, Military Exchange Services and MWR activities) shall draft the solicitation letter.
3. Close coordination among all cognizant DoD organizations is essential throughout the selection process.
B.
Specific Procedures
1. The need for in-store banking service may be identified from either:
a. An unsolicited proposal from an on-base financial institution,
b. A DoD Component's request, or
c. An installation commander's request.
2. The cognizant installation commander (or designee) is responsible for assessing the environment and authorizing the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer(s) to pursue the acquisition of in-store banking services. If no authorization is given, no further action is required.
3. The cognizant installation commander shall determine whether a solicitation is required. (A solicitation shall be required whenever there are two or more financial institutions on a DoD installation.) If no solicitation is required, then the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer shall work directly with the on-base financial institution to obtain the requested services. Where there is
neither a banking office nor an on-base credit union, use the solicitation process outlined in § 231.5(c) of this chapter, as supplemented by the provisions outlined in paragraph A, above.
4. The solicitation letter shall identify the financial services being requested and classify these services as either mandatory or optional. In addition, the solicitation letter shall highlight any services that will be weighed as more important than others during the evaluation of the proposals. Any space consideration and terms of the proposed agreement also shall be identified in the letter.
5. The installation commander (or designee) formally shall notify the selected financial institution and request that institution to coordinate with the proper activity to begin any construction, modifications or renovations necessary to open the in-store banking office. The cognizant facility management personnel shall begin the process of obtaining the necessary outgrant instruments. Concurrently, the requesting DoD Component representative and the financial institution representative shall draft the appropriate amendment to the operating agreement. The amendment should contain provisions regarding:
a. The roles and responsibilities of all parties involved.
b. The financial services to be provided, and
c. The logistical support arrangements to include custodial services and security provisions. The amendment should be coordinated with the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer(s) prior to forwarding that document to the installation commander for signature. The amendment shall be signed by the installation commander (or designee) and the appropriate financial institution official with a copy furnished to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) and the Director, DFAS (or designee).
Pt. 231, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 231—Sample Certificate of Compliance for Credit Unions Certificate of Compliance
I, (name), Chairman of the Board of Directors or President of the (credit union), located at (place), certify that this credit union complies with the requirements of section 170 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C 1770), for the allotment of space in federal buildings without charge for rent or services. The provision of no-cost office space is limited to credit unions if at least 95 percent of the membership to be served by the allotment of space is composed of individuals who are, or who were at the time of admission into the credit union, military personnel or federal employees, or members of their families.
(Date)
(Name)
(Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President)

# Note:
The Certificate of Compliance shall be written on credit union letterhead.
Pt. 232

# PART 232—LIMITATIONS ON TERMS OF CONSUMER CREDIT EXTENDED TO SERVICE MEMBERS AND DEPENDENTS
Sec.
232.1
Authority, purpose, and coverage.
232.2
Applicability; examples.
232.3
Definitions.
232.4
Terms of consumer credit extended to covered borrowers.
232.5
Identification of covered borrower.
232.6
Mandatory loan disclosures.
232.7
Preemption.
232.8
Limitations.
232.9
Penalties and remedies.
232.10
Administrative enforcement.
232.11
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act provisions unaffected.
232.12
Effective dates.
232.13
Compliance dates.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 987.

# Source:
80 FR 43606, July 22, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.1
Authority, purpose, and coverage.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Department of Defense to implement 10 U.S.C. 987.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to impose limitations on the cost and terms of certain extensions of credit to Service members and their dependents, and to provide additional protections relating to such transactions in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 987.
(c)
Coverage.
This part defines the types of transactions involving “consumer credit,” a “creditor,” and a “covered borrower” that are subject to the regulation, consistent with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 987. In addition, this part:
(1) Provides the maximum allowable amount of all charges, and the types of charges, that may be associated with a covered extension of consumer credit;
(2) Requires a creditor to provide to a covered borrower a statement of the Military Annual Percentage Rate, or
MAPR, before or at the time the borrower becomes obligated on the transaction or establishes an account for the consumer credit. The statement required by § 232.6(a)(1) differs from and is in addition to the disclosures that must be provided to consumers under the Truth in Lending Act;
(3) Provides for the method a creditor must use in calculating the MAPR; and
(4) Contains such other criteria and limitations as the Secretary of Defense has determined appropriate, consistent with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 987.
§ 232.2
Applicability; examples.
(a)(1)
Applicability.
This part applies to consumer credit extended by a creditor to a covered borrower, as those terms are defined in this part. Nothing in this part applies to a credit transaction or account relating to a consumer who is not a covered borrower at the time he or she becomes obligated on a credit transaction or establishes an account for credit. Nothing in this part applies to a credit transaction or account relating to a consumer (which otherwise would be consumer credit) when the consumer no longer is a covered borrower.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Covered borrower.
Consumer A is a member of the armed forces but not serving on active duty, and holds an account for closed-end credit with a financial institution. After establishing the closed-end credit account, Consumer A is ordered to serve on active duty, thereby becoming a covered borrower, and soon thereafter separately establishes an open-end line of credit for personal purposes (which is not subject to any exception or temporary exemption) with the financial institution. This part applies to the open-end line of credit, but not to the closed-end credit account.
(ii)
Not a covered borrower.
Same facts as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. One year after establishing the open-end line of credit, Consumer A ceases to serve on active duty. This part never did apply to the closed-end credit account, and because Consumer A no longer is a covered borrower, this part no longer applies to the open-end line of credit.
(b)
Examples.
The examples in this part are not exclusive. To the extent that an example in this part implicates a term or provision of Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026), issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to implement the Truth in Lending Act, Regulation Z shall control the meaning of that term or provision.
§ 232.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Affiliate
means any person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another person.
(b)
Billing cycle
has the same meaning as “billing cycle” in Regulation Z.
(c)
Bureau
means the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
(d)
Closed-end credit
means consumer credit (but for the conditions applicable to consumer credit under this part) other than consumer credit that is “open-end credit” as that term is defined in Regulation Z.
(e)
Consumer
means a natural person.
(f)(1)
Consumer credit
means credit offered or extended to a covered borrower primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and that is:
(i) Subject to a finance charge; or
(ii) Payable by a written agreement in more than four installments.
(2)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, consumer credit does not mean:
(i) A residential mortgage, which is any credit transaction secured by an interest in a dwelling, including a transaction to finance the purchase or initial construction of the dwelling, any refinance transaction, home equity loan or line of credit, or reverse mortgage;
(ii) Any credit transaction that is expressly intended to finance the purchase of a motor vehicle when the credit is secured by the vehicle being purchased;
(iii) Any credit transaction that is expressly intended to finance the purchase of personal property when the credit is secured by the property being purchased;
(iv) Any credit transaction that is an exempt transaction for the purposes of Regulation Z (other than a transaction exempt under 12 CFR 1026.29) or otherwise is not subject to disclosure requirements under Regulation Z; and
(v) Any credit transaction or account for credit for which a creditor determines that a consumer is not a covered borrower by using a method and by complying with the recordkeeping requirement set forth in § 232.5(b).
(g)(1)
Covered borrower
means a consumer who, at the time the consumer becomes obligated on a consumer credit transaction or establishes an account for consumer credit, is a covered member (as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) or a dependent (as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section) of a covered member.
(2) The term “covered member” means a member of the armed forces who is serving on—
(i) Active duty pursuant to title 10, title 14, or title 32, United States Code, under a call or order that does not specify a period of 30 days or fewer; or
(ii) Active Guard and Reserve duty, as that term is defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(6).
(3) The term “dependent” with respect to a covered member means a person described in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), or (I) of 10 U.S.C. 1072(2).
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, covered borrower does not mean a consumer who (though a covered borrower at the time he or she became obligated on a consumer credit transaction or established an account for consumer credit) no longer is a covered member (as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) or a dependent (as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of a covered member.
(h)
Credit
means the right granted to a consumer by a creditor to defer payment of debt or to incur debt and defer its payment.
(i)
Creditor,
except as provided in § 232.8(a), (f), and (g), means a person who is:
(1) Engaged in the business of extending consumer credit; or
(2) An assignee of a person described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section with respect to any consumer credit extended.
(3) For the purposes of this definition, a creditor is engaged in the business of extending consumer credit if the creditor considered by itself and together with its affiliates meets the transaction standard for a “creditor” under Regulation Z with respect to extensions of consumer credit to covered borrowers.
(j)
Department
means the Department of Defense.
(k)
Dwelling
means a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not the structure is attached to real property. The term includes an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home, and manufactured home.
(
l
)
Electronic fund transfer
has the same meaning as in the regulation issued by the Bureau to implement the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, as amended from time to time (12 CFR part 1005).
(m)
Federal credit union
has the same meaning as “Federal credit union” in the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1)).
(n)
Finance charge
has the same meaning as “finance charge” in Regulation Z.
(o)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as “insured depository institution” in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(p)
Military annual percentage rate (MAPR).
The MAPR is the cost of the consumer credit expressed as an annual rate, and shall be calculated in accordance with § 232.4(c).
(q)
Open-end credit
means consumer credit that (but for the conditions applicable to consumer credit under this part) is “open-end credit” under Regulation Z.
(r)
Person
means a natural person or organization, including any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, association, cooperative, estate, trust, or government unit.
(s)
Regulation Z
means any rules, or interpretations thereof, issued by the Bureau to implement the Truth in Lending Act, as amended from time to time, including any interpretation or approval issued by an official or employee duly authorized by the Bureau to issue such interpretations or approvals. However, for any provision of this part requiring a creditor to comply with Regulation Z, a creditor who is subject to Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226) issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System must continue to comply with 12 CFR part
226. Words that are not defined in this part have the same meanings given to them in Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026) issued by the Bureau, as amended from time to time, including any interpretation thereof by the Bureau or an official or employee of the Bureau duly authorized by the Bureau to issue such interpretations. Words that are not defined in this part or Regulation Z, or any interpretation thereof, have the meanings given to them by State or Federal law.
(t)
Short-term, small amount loan
means a closed-end loan that is—
(1) Subject to and made in accordance with a Federal law (other than 10 U.S.C. 987) that expressly limits the rate of interest that a Federal credit union or an insured depository institution may charge on an extension of credit, provided that the limitation set forth in that law is comparable to a limitation of an annual percentage rate of interest of 36 percent; and
(2) Made in accordance with the requirements, terms, and conditions of a rule, prescribed by the appropriate Federal regulatory agency (or jointly by such agencies), that implements the Federal law described in paragraph (t)(1) of this section, provided further that such law or rule contains—
(i) A fixed numerical limit on the maximum maturity term, which term shall not exceed 9 months; and
(ii) A fixed numerical limit on any application fee that may be charged to a consumer who applies for such closed-end loan.
§ 232.4
Terms of consumer credit extended to covered borrowers.
(a)
General conditions.
A creditor who extends consumer credit to a covered borrower may not require the covered borrower to pay an MAPR for the credit with respect to such extension of credit, except as:
(1) Agreed to under the terms of the credit agreement or promissory note;
(2) Authorized by applicable State or Federal law; and
(3) Not specifically prohibited by this part.
(b)
Limit on cost of consumer credit.
A creditor may not impose an MAPR greater than 36 percent in connection with an extension of consumer credit that is closed-end credit or in any billing cycle for open-end credit.
(c)
Calculation of the MAPR.
—(1)
Charges included in the MAPR.
The charges for the MAPR shall include, as applicable to the extension of consumer credit:
(i) Any credit insurance premium or fee, any charge for single premium credit insurance, any fee for a debt cancellation contract, or any fee for a debt suspension agreement;
(ii) Any fee for a credit-related ancillary product sold in connection with the credit transaction for closed-end credit or an account for open-end credit; and
(iii) Except for a bona fide fee (other than a periodic rate) which may be excluded under paragraph (d) of this section:
(A) Finance charges associated with the consumer credit;
(B) Any application fee charged to a covered borrower who applies for consumer credit, other than an application fee charged by a Federal credit union or an insured depository institution when making a short-term, small amount loan, provided that the application fee is charged to the covered borrower not more than once in any rolling 12-month period; and
(C) Any fee imposed for participation in any plan or arrangement for consumer credit, subject to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iv)
Certain exclusions of Regulation Z inapplicable.
Any charge set forth in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section shall be included in the calculation of the MAPR even if that charge would be excluded from the finance charge under Regulation Z.
(2)
Computing the MAPR
—(i)
Closed-end credit.
For closed-end credit, the MAPR shall be calculated following the rules for calculating and disclosing the “Annual Percentage Rate (APR)” for credit transactions under Regulation Z based on the charges set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Open-end credit
—(A)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, for open-end credit, the MAPR shall be calculated following the rules for calculating the effective annual percentage rate for a billing cycle as set forth in § 1026.14(c)
and (d) of Regulation Z (as if a creditor must comply with that section) based on the charges set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Notwithstanding § 1026.14(c) and (d) of Regulation Z, the amount of charges related to opening, renewing, or continuing an account must be included in the calculation of the MAPR to the extent those charges are set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(B)
No balance during a billing cycle.
For open-end credit, if the MAPR cannot be calculated in a billing cycle because there is no balance in the billing cycle, a creditor may not impose any fee or charge during that billing cycle, except that the creditor may impose a fee for participation in any plan or arrangement for that open-end credit so long as the participation fee does not exceed $100 per annum, regardless of the billing cycle in which the participation fee is imposed;
provided, however,
that the $100-per annum limitation on the amount of the participation fee does not apply to a bona fide participation fee imposed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Bona fide fee charged to a credit card account
—(1)
In general.
For consumer credit extended in a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan, a bona fide fee, other than a periodic rate, is not a charge required to be included in the MAPR pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The exclusion provided for any bona fide fee under this paragraph (d) applies only to the extent that the charge by the creditor is a bona fide fee, and must be reasonable for that type of fee.
(2)
Ineligible items.
The exclusion for bona fide fees in paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply to—
(i) Any credit insurance premium or fee, including any charge for single premium credit insurance, any fee for a debt cancellation contract, or any fee for a debt suspension agreement; or
(ii) Any fee for a credit-related ancillary product sold in connection with the credit transaction for closed-end credit or an account for open-end credit.
(3)
Standards relating to bona fide fees
—(i)
Like-kind fees.
To assess whether a bona fide fee is reasonable under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the fee must be compared to fees typically imposed by other creditors for the same or a substantially similar product or service. For example, when assessing a bona fide cash advance fee, that fee must be compared to fees charged by other creditors for transactions in which consumers receive extensions of credit in the form of cash or its equivalent. Conversely, when assessing a foreign transaction fee, that fee may not be compared to a cash advance fee because the foreign transaction fee involves the service of exchanging the consumer's currency (
e.g.,
a reserve currency) for the local currency demanded by a merchant for a good or service, and does not involve the provision of cash to the consumer.
(ii)
Safe harbor.
A bona fide fee is reasonable under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the amount of the fee is less than or equal to an average amount of a fee for the same or a substantially similar product or service charged by 5 or more creditors each of whose U.S. credit cards in force is at least $3 billion in an outstanding balance (or at least $3 billion in loans on U.S. credit card accounts initially extended by the creditor) at any time during the 3-year period preceding the time such average is computed.
(iii)
Reasonable fee.
A bona fide fee that is higher than an average amount, as calculated under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, also may be reasonable under paragraph (d)(1) of this section depending on other factors relating to the credit card account. A bona fide fee charged by a creditor is not unreasonable solely because other creditors do not charge a fee for the same or a substantially similar product or service.
(iv)
Indicia of reasonableness for a participation fee.
An amount of a bona fide fee for participation in a credit card account may be reasonable under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if that amount reasonably corresponds to the credit limit in effect or credit made available when the fee is imposed, to the services offered under the credit card account, or to other factors relating to the credit card account. For example, even if other creditors typically charge $100 per annum for participation
in credit card accounts, a $400 fee nevertheless may be reasonable if (relative to other accounts carrying participation fees) the credit made available to the covered borrower is significantly higher or additional services or other benefits are offered under that account.
(4)
Effect of charging fees on bona fide fees
—(i)
Bona fide fees treated separately from charges for credit insurance products or credit-related ancillary products.
If a creditor imposes a fee described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and imposes a finance charge to a covered borrower, the total amount of the fee(s) and finance charge(s) shall be included in the MAPR pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and the imposition of any fee or finance charge described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not affect whether another type of fee may be excluded as a bona fide fee under this paragraph (d).
(ii)
Effect of charges for non-bona fide fees.
If a creditor imposes any fee (other than a periodic rate or a fee that must be included in the MAPR pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section) that is not a bona fide fee and imposes a finance charge to a covered borrower, the total amount of those fees, including any bona fide fees, and other finance charges shall be included in the MAPR pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii)
Examples.
(A) In a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan during a given billing cycle, Creditor A imposes on a covered borrower a fee for a debt cancellation product (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section), a finance charge (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A)), and a bona fide foreign transaction fee that qualifies for the exclusion under this paragraph (d). Only the fee for the debt cancellation product and the finance charge must be included when calculating the MAPR.
(B) In a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan during a given billing cycle, Creditor B imposes on a covered borrower a fee for a debt cancellation product (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section), a finance charge (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A)), a bona fide foreign transaction fee that qualifies for the exclusion under this paragraph (d), and a bona fide, but unreasonable cash advance fee. All of the fees—including the foreign transaction fee that otherwise would qualify for the exclusion under this paragraph (d)—and the finance charge must be included when calculating the MAPR.
(5)
Rule of construction.
Nothing in paragraph (d)(1) of this section authorizes the imposition of fees or charges otherwise prohibited by this part or by other applicable State or Federal law.
§ 232.5
Optional identification of covered borrower.
(a)
No restriction on method for covered-borrower check.
A creditor is permitted to apply its own method to assess whether a consumer is a covered borrower.
(b)
Safe harbor
—(1)
In general.
A creditor may conclusively determine whether credit is offered or extended to a covered borrower, and thus may be subject to 10 U.S.C. 987 and the requirements of this part, by assessing the status of a consumer in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)
Methods to check status of consumer
—(i)
Department database
—(A)
In general.
To determine whether a consumer is a covered borrower, a creditor may verify the status of a consumer by using information relating to that consumer, if any, obtained directly or indirectly from the database maintained by the Department, available at
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/mla/welcome.xhtml
. A search of the Department's database requires the entry of the consumer's last name, date of birth, and Social Security number.
(B)
Historic lookback prohibited.
At any time after a consumer has entered into a transaction or established an account involving an extension of credit, a creditor (including an assignee) may not, directly or indirectly, obtain any information from any database maintained by the Department to ascertain whether a consumer had been a covered borrower as of the date of that transaction or as of the date that account was established.
(ii)
Consumer report from a nationwide consumer reporting agency.
To determine whether a consumer is a covered borrower, a creditor may verify the
status of a consumer by using a statement, code, or similar indicator describing that status, if any, contained in a consumer report obtained from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis, or a reseller of such a consumer report (as each of those terms is defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a) and any implementing regulation (12 CFR part 1022)).
(3)
Determination and recordkeeping; one-time determination permitted.
A creditor who makes a determination regarding the status of a consumer by using one or both of the methods set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be deemed to be conclusive with respect to that transaction or account involving consumer credit between the creditor and that consumer, so long as that creditor timely creates and thereafter maintains a record of the information so obtained. A creditor may make the determination described in this paragraph (b), and keep the record of that information obtained at that time, solely at the time—
(i) A consumer initiates the transaction or 30 days prior to that time;
(ii) A consumer applies to establish the account or 30 days prior to that time; or
(iii) The creditor develops or processes, with respect to a consumer, a firm offer of credit that (among the criteria used by the creditor for the offer) includes the status of the consumer as a covered borrower, so long as the consumer responds to that offer not later than 60 days after the time that the creditor had provided that offer to the consumer. If the consumer responds to the creditor's offer later than 60 days after the time that the creditor had provided that offer to the consumer, then the creditor may not rely upon its initial determination in developing or processing that offer, and, instead, may act on the consumer's response as if the consumer is initiating the transaction or applying to establish the account (as described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section).
§ 232.6
Mandatory loan disclosures.
(a)
Required information.
With respect to any extension of consumer credit (including any consumer credit originated or extended through the internet) to a covered borrower, a creditor shall provide to the covered borrower the following information before or at the time the borrower becomes obligated on the transaction or establishes an account for the consumer credit:
(1) A statement of the MAPR applicable to the extension of consumer credit;
(2) Any disclosure required by Regulation Z, which shall be provided only in accordance with the requirements of Regulation Z that apply to that disclosure; and
(3) A clear description of the payment obligation of the covered borrower, as applicable. A payment schedule (in the case of closed-end credit) or account-opening disclosure (in the case of open-end credit) provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section satisfies this requirement.
(b)
One-time delivery; multiple creditors.
(1) The information described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section are not required to be provided to a covered borrower more than once for the transaction or the account established for consumer credit with respect to that borrower.
(2)
Multiple creditors.
If a transaction involves more than one creditor, then only one of those creditors must provide the disclosures in accordance with this section. The creditors may agree among themselves which creditor may provide the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section.
(c)
Statement of the MAPR
—(1)
In general.
A creditor may satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by describing the charges the creditor may impose, in accordance with this part and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, relating to the consumer credit to calculate the MAPR. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be construed as requiring a creditor to describe the MAPR as a numerical value or to describe the total dollar amount of all charges in the MAPR that apply to the extension of consumer credit.
(2)
Method of providing a statement regarding the MAPR.
A creditor may include a statement of the MAPR applicable to the consumer credit in the agreement with the covered borrower involving the consumer credit transaction. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be construed as requiring a creditor to include a statement of the MAPR applicable to an extension of consumer credit in any advertisement relating to the credit.
(3)
Model statement.
A statement substantially similar to the following statement may be used for the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this section: “Federal law provides important protections to members of the Armed Forces and their dependents relating to extensions of consumer credit. In general, the cost of consumer credit to a member of the Armed Forces and his or her dependent may not exceed an annual percentage rate of 36 percent. This rate must include, as applicable to the credit transaction or account: The costs associated with credit insurance premiums; fees for ancillary products sold in connection with the credit transaction; any application fee charged (other than certain application fees for specified credit transactions or accounts); and any participation fee charged (other than certain participation fees for a credit card account).”
(d)
Methods of delivery
—(1)
Written disclosures.
The creditor shall provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section in writing in a form the covered borrower can keep.
(2)
Oral disclosures.
(i)
In general.
The creditor also shall orally provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section.
(ii)
Methods to provide oral disclosures.
A creditor may satisfy the requirement in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section if the creditor provides—
(A) The information to the covered borrower in person; or
(B) A toll-free telephone number in order to deliver the oral disclosures to a covered borrower when the covered borrower contacts the creditor for this purpose.
(iii)
Toll-free telephone number on application or disclosure.
If applicable, the toll-free telephone number must be included on—
(A) A form the creditor directs the consumer to use to apply for the transaction or account involving consumer credit; or
(B) A written disclosure the creditor provides to the covered borrower, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
When disclosures are required for refinancing or renewal of covered loan.
The refinancing or renewal of consumer credit requires new disclosures under this section only when the transaction for that credit would be considered a new transaction that requires disclosures under Regulation Z.
§ 232.7
Preemption.
(a)
Inconsistent laws.
10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part preempts any State or Federal law, rule or regulation, including any State usury law, to the extent such law, rule or regulation is inconsistent with this part, except that any such law, rule or regulation is not preempted by this part to the extent that it provides protection to a covered borrower greater than those protections provided by 10 U.S.C. 987 and this part.
(b)
Different treatment under State law of covered borrowers is prohibited.
A State may not:
(1) Authorize creditors to charge covered borrowers rates of interest for any consumer credit or loans that are higher than the legal limit for residents of the State, or
(2) Permit the violation or waiver of any State consumer lending protection covering consumer credit that is for the benefit of residents of the State on the basis of the covered borrower's nonresident or military status, regardless of the covered borrower's domicile or permanent home of record, provided that the protection would otherwise apply to the covered borrower.
§ 232.8
Limitations.
Title 10 U.S.C. 987 makes it unlawful for any creditor to extend consumer credit to a covered borrower with respect to which:
(a) The creditor rolls over, renews, repays, refinances, or consolidates any
consumer credit extended to the covered borrower by the same creditor with the proceeds of other consumer credit extended by that creditor to the same covered borrower. This paragraph shall not apply to a transaction when the same creditor extends consumer credit to a covered borrower to refinance or renew an extension of credit that was not covered by this paragraph because the consumer was not a covered borrower at the time of the original transaction. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “creditor” means a person engaged in the business of extending consumer credit subject to applicable law to engage in deferred presentment transactions or similar payday loan transactions (as described in the relevant law),
provided however,
that the term does not include a person that is chartered or licensed under Federal or State law as a bank, savings association, or credit union.
(b) The covered borrower is required to waive the covered borrower's right to legal recourse under any otherwise applicable provision of State or Federal law, including any provision of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501
et seq.
).
(c) The creditor requires the covered borrower to submit to arbitration or imposes other onerous legal notice provisions in the case of a dispute.
(d) The creditor demands unreasonable notice from the covered borrower as a condition for legal action.
(e) The creditor uses a check or other method of access to a deposit, savings, or other financial account maintained by the covered borrower, except that, in connection with a consumer credit transaction with an MAPR consistent with § 232.4(b), the creditor may:
(1) Require an electronic fund transfer to repay a consumer credit transaction, unless otherwise prohibited by law;
(2) Require direct deposit of the consumer's salary as a condition of eligibility for consumer credit, unless otherwise prohibited by law; or
(3) If not otherwise prohibited by applicable law, take a security interest in funds deposited after the extension of credit in an account established in connection with the consumer credit transaction.
(f) The creditor uses the title of a vehicle as security for the obligation involving the consumer credit,
provided however,
that for the purposes of this paragraph, the term “creditor” does not include a person that is chartered or licensed under Federal or State law as a bank, savings association, or credit union.
(g) The creditor requires as a condition for the extension of consumer credit that the covered borrower establish an allotment to repay the obligation. For the purposes of this paragraph only, the term “creditor” shall not include a “military welfare society,” as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1033(b)(2), or a “service relief society,” as defined in 37 U.S.C. 1007(h)(4).
(h) The covered borrower is prohibited from prepaying the consumer credit or is charged a penalty fee for prepaying all or part of the consumer credit.
§ 232.9
Penalties and remedies.
(a)
Misdemeanor.
A creditor who knowingly violates 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part shall be fined as provided in title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(b)
Preservation of other remedies.
The remedies and rights provided under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part are in addition to and do not preclude any remedy otherwise available under State or Federal law or regulation to the person claiming relief under the statute, including any award for consequential damages and punitive damages.
(c)
Contract void.
Any credit agreement, promissory note, or other contract with a covered borrower that fails to comply with 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part or which contains one or more provisions prohibited under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is void from the inception of the contract.
(d)
Arbitration.
Notwithstanding 9 U.S.C. 2, or any other Federal or State law, rule, or regulation, no agreement to arbitrate any dispute involving the extension of consumer credit to a covered borrower pursuant to this part shall be enforceable against any covered borrower, or any person who was a
covered borrower when the agreement was made.
(e)
Civil liability
—(1)
In general.
A person who violates 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part with respect to any person is civilly liable to such person for:
(i) Any actual damage sustained as a result, but not less than $500 for each violation;
(ii) Appropriate punitive damages;
(iii) Appropriate equitable or declaratory relief; and
(iv) Any other relief provided by law.
(2)
Costs of the action.
In any successful action to enforce the civil liability described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the person who violated 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is also liable for the costs of the action, together with reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court.
(3)
Effect of finding of bad faith and harassment.
In any successful action by a defendant under this section, if the court finds the action was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of harassment, the plaintiff is liable for the attorney fees of the defendant as determined by the court to be reasonable in relation to the work expended and costs incurred.
(4)
Defenses.
A person may not be held liable for civil liability under paragraph (e) of this section if the person shows by a preponderance of evidence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any such error. Examples of a bona fide error include clerical, calculation, computer malfunction and programming, and printing errors, except that an error of legal judgment with respect to a person's obligations under 10 U.S.C. 987 as implemented by this part is not a bona fide error.
(5)
Jurisdiction, venue, and statute of limitations.
An action for civil liability under paragraph (e) of this section may be brought in any appropriate United States district court, without regard to the amount in controversy, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, not later than the earlier of:
(i) Two years after the date of discovery by the plaintiff of the violation that is the basis for such liability; or
(ii) Five years after the date on which the violation that is the basis for such liability occurs.
§ 232.10
Administrative enforcement.
The provisions of this part, other than § 232.9(a), shall be enforced by the agencies specified in section 108 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1607) in the manner set forth in that section or under any other applicable authorities available to such agencies by law.
§ 232.11
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act protections unaffected.
Nothing in this part may be construed to limit or otherwise affect the applicability of section 207 and any other provisions of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 527).
§ 232.12
Effective dates.
(a)
In general.
This regulation shall take effect October 1, 2015, except that, other than as provided in this section and in § 232.13(b)(1), nothing in this part shall apply to consumer credit that is extended to a covered borrower and consummated before October 3, 2016.
(b)
Prior extensions of consumer credit.
Consumer credit that is extended to a covered borrower and consummated any time between October 1, 2007, and October 3, 2016, is subject to the definitions, conditions, and requirements of this part as were established by the Department and effective on October 1, 2007.
(c)
New extensions of consumer credit.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section with respect to extensions of consumer credit under paragraph (b) of this section (and except as permitted by § 232.13(b)(1)), the requirements of this part that are effective as of October 1, 2015, shall apply only to a consumer credit transaction or account for consumer credit consummated or established on or after October 3, 2016.
(d)
Provisions of 10 U.S.C. 987(d)(2).
The amendments to 10 U.S.C. 987(d)(2) enacted in section 661(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239, 126 Stat. 1785), as reflected in § 232.7(b), took effect on January 2, 2014.
(e)
Civil liability remedies.
The provisions set forth in § 232.9(e) shall apply with respect to consumer credit extended on or after January 2, 2013.
§ 232.13
Compliance dates.
(a)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a creditor must comply with the requirements of this part, as may be applicable, with respect to a consumer credit transaction or account for consumer credit consummated or established on or after October 3, 2016, not later than that date.
(b)
Safe harbors for identifying a covered borrower
—(1)
New safe harbors.
Section 232.5 shall apply October 3, 2016.
(2)
Prior safe harbor valid until general compliance date.
The provisions relating to the identification of a covered borrower set forth in § 232.5(a) of the regulation established by the Department and effective on October 1, 2007 (including the interpretation by the Department that provides an exception from the safe harbor for the creditor's knowledge that the applicant is a covered borrower) shall remain in effect until October 3, 2016.
(c)
Limited exemption for credit card account; reservation of authority
—(1)
In general.
Notwithstanding § 232.3(f)(1) and subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, until October 3, 2017, consumer credit does not mean credit extended in a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan.
(2)
Authority to issue an order to extend exemption.
The Secretary, or an official of the Department duly authorized by the Secretary, may, by order, extend the expiration of the exemption set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, until a date not later than October 3, 2018.
Pt. 233

# PART 233—FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (FVAP)
Sec.
233.1
Purpose
233.2
Applicability
233.3
Definitions
233.4
Policy
233.5
Responsibilities
233.6
Procedures

# Authority:
E.O. 12642; 10 U.S.C. 1566a; 52 U.S.C. 20506; 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.

# Source:
77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 233.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for the FVAP in accordance with Executive Order 12642 and the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA), 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.
(b) Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for the development and implementation of installation voter assistance (IVA) offices in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1566a.
(c) Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for the development and implementation, jointly with each State, of procedures for persons to apply to register to vote at recruitment offices of the Military Services in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20506.
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019]
§ 233.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the Department of Homeland Security by agreement with that Department), the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) The Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (PHS), under agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), under agreement with the Department of Commerce, and the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD) under agreement with the Department of Transportation. The term “uniformed services” refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and
their Reserve Components, as well as the Commissioned Corps of the PHS and the NOAA.
(c) Other Federal Executive departments and agencies with employees assigned outside the United States that provide assistance to the FVAP under 52 U.S.C. 20301(c). Recommended procedures for these departments and agencies are contained in § 233.6(c) of this part.
(d) United States Postal Service pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20304(b)(2) and (4).
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019; 85 FR 13047, Mar. 6, 2020]
§ 233.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part are defined in DoD Dictionary of Military Terms (available at
http://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine
) and this section. These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Eligible voter.
Any of the following:
(1)
Absent uniformed services voter:
(i) A member of a uniformed service on active duty who, by reason of such active duty, is absent from the place of residence where the member is otherwise qualified to vote.
(ii) A member of the merchant marine who, by reason of service in the merchant marine, is absent from the place of residence where the member is otherwise qualified to vote.
(iii) A spouse or dependent of a member referred to in the first two sentences of this definition who, by reason of the active duty or service of the member, is absent from the place of residence where the spouse or dependent is otherwise qualified to vote.
(2)
Overseas voter:
(i) An absent uniformed services voter who, by reason of active duty or service, is absent from the United States on the date of the election involved;
(ii) A person who resides outside of the United States and is qualified to vote in the last place in which the person was domiciled before leaving the United States; or
(iii) A person who resides outside of the United States and (but for such residence) would be qualified to vote in the last place in which the person was domiciled before leaving the United States.
Federal office.
The offices of President or Vice President; Presidential Elector; or of Senator or Representative in; or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to Congress.
Installation voter assistance (IVA) offices.
The office designated by the installation commander, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1556a, to provide voter assistance to military personnel, voting-age military dependents, Government employees, contractors, and other civilian U.S. citizens with access to the installation. IVA offices also serve as voter registration agencies pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20506(a)(2).
Installation voter assistance officer (IVAO).
An individual responsible for voting assistance coordination at the installation level.
Recruitment offices of the Military Services.
Any office of a military service open to the public and engaged in the recruitment of persons for appointment or enlistment in an Active Component of the Military Services. This does not include Army National Guard and Air National Guard recruiting offices.
State.
A State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
State election.
Any non-Federal election held solely, or in part, for selecting, nominating, or electing any candidate for any State office, such as Governor, Lieutenant Governor, State Attorney General, or State Legislator, or on issues of Statewide interest.
Uniformed services.
The Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, and the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Voter registration agency.
An office designated pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20506 to perform voter registration activities. Pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20506(c), a recruitment office of the Military Services is considered to be a voter registration agency. All IVA offices are also designated as voter registration agencies pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20506(a)(2).
Voting assistance officer (VAO).
An individual responsible for voting assistance.
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019; 86 FR 70748, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 233.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The FVAP shall ensure that eligible voters receive, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(5), information about registration and voting procedures and materials pertaining to scheduled elections, including dates, offices, constitutional amendments, and other ballot proposals.
(b) The right of U.S. citizens to vote is a fundamental right that is afforded protection by the U.S. Constitution. Every eligible voter shall:
(1) Be given an opportunity to register and vote in any election for which he or she is eligible.
(2) Be able to vote in person or by absentee.
(c) All persons assisting in the voting process shall take all necessary steps to prevent discrimination, fraud, intimidation or coercion, and unfair registration and voting assistance procedures. This includes, but is not limited to, preventing actions such as:
(1) Using military authority to influence the vote of any other member of the uniformed services or to require any member to march to any polling place or place of voting as proscribed by 18 U.S.C. 592, 18 U.S.C. 593, and 18 U.S.C. 609. This subsection does not, in any way, prohibit free discussion about political issues or candidates for public office as stated in 18 U.S.C. 609.
(2) Polling any member of the uniformed services before or after he or she votes, as proscribed in 18 U.S.C. 596.
(d) The FVAP shall conduct official surveys authorized by 52 U.S.C. 20301 to report to the President and the Congress on the effectiveness of the assistance provided to eligible voters (including a separate statistical analysis of voter participation and a description of Federal-State cooperation).
(e) DoD personnel involved in assisting in the voter registration or absentee voting process shall use the names of persons applying or declining to register to vote only for voter registration purposes and shall not release such information for any other purpose.
(f) Military or civilian personnel employed in recruitment offices of the Military Services shall be subject to the restrictions outlined in § 233.6(b) of this part.
(g) An installation commander may permit non-partisan voter registration activities on an installation by State and county officials, or groups recognized in accordance with section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to all applicable military installation rules and regulations governing such activities on military installations.
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019]
§ 233.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) shall:
(1) Execute the responsibilities of the Presidential designee in accordance with DoD Directive 5124.02 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/512402p.pdf
).
(2) Administer the FVAP in accordance with Executive Order 12642, 10 U.S.C. 1566a, 52 U.S.C. 20506; 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.
(3) Coordinate and implement actions that may be necessary to discharge Federal responsibilities assigned in DoD Directive 5124.02, Executive Order 12642, 10 U.S.C. 1566, 52 U.S.C. 20506; 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.
(4) Develop policy and procedures to implement DoD responsibilities under 52 U.S.C. 20506 (also known as the “National Voter Registration Act (NVRA)”).
(5) Grant or deny any hardship exemption waivers submitted by a State pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20302(g) (after consultation with the Attorney General's designee) and inform the State of the results of the waiver request.
(b) The Heads of the DoD Components and the Uniformed Services shall disseminate voting information and assist eligible voters, as required, in their respective organization, following the procedures in § 233.6(b) of this part.
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019]
§ 233.6
Procedures.
(a)
FVAP Procedures.
FVAP, shall:
(1) Manage, coordinate, and perform the Presidential designee's responsibilities pursuant to 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.
(2) Encourage and assist States and other U.S. jurisdictions to adopt the mandatory and recommended provisions of 52 U.S.C. 20302 and ensure they are aware of the requirements of 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.
(3) Establish and maintain contact with State election officials, State legislators, and with other State and local government officials to improve the absentee voting process for the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) citizens.
(4) Obtain, from each State, current voter registration and absentee voting information and disseminate it to other Federal Executive departments, agencies, DoD Components, and voters qualified to vote, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(5).
(5) Establish and maintain a voting assistance program to assist all eligible voters as covered by 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203, and to assist those persons to vote.
(6) Establish and maintain an FVAP Web site that provides:
(i) Information to citizens on the voter registration and absentee voting process.
(ii) Information on the means of electronic transmission of election materials allowed by each State.
(iii) A method to assist citizens in the voter registration process and how to request an absentee ballot.
(iv) A list of State contact information in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20302(e)(4).
(v) The ability to print a Standard Form (SF) 186, “Federal Write-In Absentee Ballot,” and a list of all candidates in a Federal election.
(vi) A portal that hosts Service-specific information regarding voting assistance programs, including links to IVA offices; the contact information for voting assistance officers (installation, major command and commissioned units) within the DoD Component; procedures to order voting materials; and links to other Federal and State voting Web sites.
(vii) Absentee ballot data reported under 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(6) and (b)(11) and 52 U.S.C. 20308.
(viii) Other information as deemed necessary by FVAP.
(7) Survey U.S. citizens including, but not limited to, uniformed services and their dependents as well as overseas U.S. civilians covered by 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203, voting assistance officers (VAOs), and election officials to gather necessary statistical information and prepare the reports to the President and the Congress required by 52 U.S.C. 20301(6) and 52 U.S.C. 20308.
(8) Prescribe the standard oath to be used with any document pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(7).
(9) Coordinate with the Military Postal Service Agency, as addressed in DoD 4525.6-M (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/452506m.pdf
), to implement measures to ensure a postmark or other proof of mailing date is provided on each absentee ballot collected at any overseas location or vessel at sea, and that voting materials are moved expeditiously to the maximum extent practicable by military postal authorities.
(10) Establish procedures, in consultation with the Attorney General, regarding hardship exemption waivers submitted by a State pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20302(g).
(11) Prescribe the required voting program metrics to be used by the DoD Components and uniformed services to be used in evaluating their individual voting assistance programs, and report on compliance with those metrics. To the extent practicable, establish and maintain an online portal to collect and consolidate voting program metrics.
(12) In coordination with the Services, develop multiple types of training materials for use by IVA offices, IVAOs, UVAOs, and recruiters to provide voter registration and absentee ballot assistance and at recruitment offices of the Military Services to provide voter registration assistance. Conduct voting assistance training during even-numbered years worldwide.
(13) Maintain multiple lines of support for use by uniformed services and overseas voters, personnel assigned to recruitment offices of the Military
Services and State election officials to provide assistance outlined pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301.
(b)
DoD Component and Uniformed Services Procedures.
The DoD Components and the uniformed services shall:
(1) Establish IVA offices on each military installation and maintain an updated list of IVA offices, including location, address, hours of operation, phone number and email address, published on the Service voting assistance Web site. At the discretion of the installation commander, satellite offices may be established under the primary IVA office.
(i) The IVA office will provide voter assistance to military personnel, their dependents, civilian Federal employees, and all qualified voters who have access to such installation offices. IVA offices shall also serve as voter registration agencies under 52 U.S.C. 20506(a)(2).
(ii) The IVA office shall be established within the installation headquarters organization reporting directly to the installation commander, even if geographically located in another office.
(iii) The IVA office should be located in a well-advertised, fixed location, consistent throughout the Service, and should be physically co-located with an existing office that receives extensive visits by Service personnel, family members, and DoD civilians. The IVA office shall be staffed during the hours the installation office is open with trained personnel to provide direct assistance in registration and voting procedures, including the assistance required under 52 U.S.C. 20506(a)(4).
(iv) The IVA office shall:
(A) Be included in the administrative in-processing and out-processing activities required of reporting and detaching personnel.
(B) Ensure that members of a uniformed service, their voting-age dependents, and overseas DoD civilians are provided proper voting assistance at the IVA office, including the opportunity to update their voter registration information through the submission of a revised SF 76, “Federal Post Card Application (FPCA)” or National Mail Voter Registration Form.
(C) Ensure that voting assistance is provided to all personnel, military and civilian, reporting for duty on the installation, detaching from duty, deploying, and returning from deployment of 6 months or longer.
(
1
) SF 76s shall be used to notify local election officials of the change of mailing address for absentee ballot delivery purposes.
(D) Provide written information on voter registration and absentee ballot procedures. This can be met by providing the applicant with the SF 76, SF 186, (if applicable), or the National Mail Voter Registration Form, the attached instructions for those forms, and the State-specific instructions from the Voting Assistance Guide (available at
http://www.fvap.gov
) for absent uniformed services voters, voting-age dependent voters, and overseas civilians. Citizens may also be provided with all of the necessary resources including, but not limited to, access to a computer system connected to the Internet, a printer, and a scanner to use the FPCA wizard available at the FVAP Web site,
www.fvap.gov.
(
1
) SF 76 and SF 186 (if applicable) shall be provided to absent uniformed services personnel and their family members (within and outside of the United States) and to Federal civilian employees and other U.S. citizens who have access to an IVA office outside the United States.
(
2
) The National Mail Voter Registration Form shall be provided to Federal civilian employees and other U.S. citizens who have access to the IVA office within the United States, and to uniformed services voters who currently reside in their voting districts.
(E) Provide direct assistance to individuals in completing the forms necessary to register to vote, update their voter registration information, and request absentee ballots.
(F) Collect from the voter and transmit the completed SF 76 or National Mail Voter Registration Form for the applicant, within 5 calendar days, to the appropriate local election office.
(2) To the greatest extent practicable, ensure voters who are eligible to cast absentee ballots on DoD facilities are able to do so in a private and independent manner.
(3) Ensure all personnel assigned to recruitment offices are informed of the policies in this part and are trained to provide voter registration assistance. Ensure the recruitment offices of the Military Services:
(i) Provide each prospective enlistee with the National Mail Voter Registration Form, available at
https://www.eac.gov/voters/register-and-vote-in-your-state/
, and DD Form 2645, Voter Registration Information Form, available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2645.pdf
, unless the applicant, in writing, declines to register to vote.
(ii) Distribute the National Mail Voter Registration Form to each eligible citizen and provide assistance in completing the form unless the applicant refuses such assistance.
(iii) Provide each eligible citizen or prospective enlistee who does not decline to register to vote the same degree of assistance for the completion of the National Mail Voter Registration Form as is provided by the office for the completion of its own forms, e.g., the application for enlistment, unless the person refuses such assistance.
(iv) Transmit all completed registration applications within 5 calendar days to the appropriate State election officials.
(v) Maintain statistical information and records on voter registration assistance provided by recruitment offices in the format prescribed by the FVAP, for a period of 2 years, in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20507(i).
(4) Revise all voting assistance program instructions and procedures to incorporate the provisions of this part.
(5) Establish a DoD Component-wide means to communicate effectively with and expeditiously disseminate voting information to Commanders, VAOs, and uniformed services and overseas DoD civilian members of the DoD Component and their voting age dependents. This communication effort should be coordinated with the FVAP.
(c)
Executive Department and Agency Procedures.
(1) Federal Executive departments and agencies, including, but not limited to, the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Health and Human Services, shall enter into agreements with the Presidential designee to adopt regulations and procedures that conform to this part to the maximum extent practicable, consistent with their organizational missions. By doing so, the FVAP will be able to assist the Executive departments, agencies, and their voting constituencies to the maximum extent.
(2) The head of each Government department, agency, or other entity shall distribute balloting materials and develop a non-partisan program of information and education for all employees and family members pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(c).
(i) The department or agency is responsible for providing voter assistance with assistance available from the FVAP.
(ii) Each department or agency with employees or family members covered by 52 U.S.C. 20301 shall designate an individual to coordinate and administer a voting assistance program for the department or agency to include, where practicable, the responsibilities in this part. The name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of this individual shall be provided to the FVAP.
(iii) The Secretary of State shall designate a voting action officer at the Department of State headquarters to oversee the Department's program as well as a U.S. citizen at each U.S. embassy or consulate to assist, to the fullest extent practicable, other U.S. citizens residing outside of the United States who are eligible to vote. The Secretary of State shall provide annually, or as requested by the FVAP, estimates of the numbers of U.S. citizens currently residing in each country with an established embassy.
(iv) Each embassy and consulate should have sufficient quantities of materials to include SF 76s, and SF 186s, needed by U.S. citizens to register and vote. Embassies and consulates will also inform and educate U.S. citizens regarding their right to register and vote, and will publicize voter assistance programs.
(v) The Department of State's voting action officer shall coordinate with the FVAP, in the development and conduct of voting events, programs to inform and educate U.S. citizens outside of the
United States, and provision of voting information and resources for assistance.
(vi) Department of State and the Military Service voting action officers shall assist, as requested, installation, embassy and consulate VAOs with post-election surveys of U.S. civilians outside of the United States.
[77 FR 57487, Sept. 18, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 59722, Nov. 6, 2019; 85 FR 13047, Mar. 6, 2020]
Pt. 234

# PART 234—CONDUCT ON THE PENTAGON RESERVATION
Sec.
234.1
Definitions.
234.2
Applicability.
234.3
Admission to property.
234.4
Trespassing.
234.5
Compliance with official signs.
234.6
Interfering with agency functions.
234.7
Disorderly conduct.
234.8
Preservation of property.
234.9
Explosives.
234.10
Weapons.
234.11
Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
234.12
Restriction on animals.
234.13
Soliciting, vending, and debt collection.
234.14
Posting of materials.
234.15
Use of visual recording devices.
234.16
Gambling.
234.17
Vehicles and traffic safety.
234.18
Enforcement of parking regulations.
234.19
Penalties and effect on other laws.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 131 and 2674(c).

# Source:
72 FR 29251, May 25, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 234.1
Definitions.
As used in this part.
Authorized person.
An employee or agent of the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, or any other Department of Defense employee or agent who has delegated authority to enforce the provisions of this part.
Operator.
A person who operates, drives, controls, otherwise has charge of, or is in actual physical control of a mechanical mode of transportation or any other mechanical equipment.
Pentagon Reservation.
Area of land and improvements thereon, located in Arlington, Virginia, on which the Pentagon Office Building, Federal Building Number 2, the Pentagon heating and sewage treatment plants, and other related facilities are located. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 674, the Pentagon Reservation also includes the area of land known as Raven Rock Mountain Complex (“RRMC”), located in Adams County, Pennsylvania, and Site “C,” which is located in Washington County, Maryland, and other related facilities. The Pentagon Reservation shall include all roadways, walkways, waterways, and all areas designated for the parking of vehicles.
Permit.
A written authorization to engage in uses or activities that are otherwise prohibited, restricted, or regulated.
Possession.
Exercising direct physical control or dominion, with or without ownership, over property.
State law.
The applicable and nonconflicting laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, and codes of the state(s) and other political subdivision(s) within whose exterior boundaries the Pentagon Reservation or a portion thereof is located.
Traffic.
Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any road, path, street, or other thoroughfare for the purposes of travel.
Vehicle.
Any vehicle that is self-propelled or designed for self-propulsion, any motorized vehicle, and any vehicle drawn by or designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle, including any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or can be transported or drawn upon a highway, hallway, or pathway; to include any device moved by human or animal power, whether required to be licensed in any state or otherwise.
Weapons.
Any loaded or unloaded pistol, rifle, shotgun, or other device which is designed to, or may be readily converted to, expel a projectile by the ignition of a propellant, by compressed gas, or by spring power; any bow and arrow, crossbow, blowgun, spear gun, hand-thrown spear, slingshot, irritant gas device, explosive device, or any other implement designed to discharge missiles; any other weapon, device, instrument, material, or substance, animate or inanimate that is used for or is readily capable of, causing death or serious bodily injury, including any weapon the possession of which is prohibited under the laws of the state in
which the Pentagon Reservation or portion thereof is located; except that such term does not include a pocket knife with a blade of less than 2
1/2
inches in length.
§ 234.2
Applicability.
The provisions of this part apply to all areas, lands, and waters on or adjoining the Pentagon Reservation and under the jurisdiction of the United States, and to all persons entering in or on the property. They supplement those penal provisions of Title 18, United States Code, relating to crimes and criminal procedure and those provisions of State law that are federal criminal offenses by virtue of the Assimilative Crimes Act, 18 U.S.C. 13.
§ 234.3
Admission to property.
(a) Access to the Pentagon Reservation or facilities thereon shall be restricted in accordance with AI Number 30
1
and other applicable Department of Defense rules and regulations in order to ensure the orderly and secure conduct of Department of Defense business. Admission to facilities or restricted areas shall be limited to employees and other persons with proper authorization. Forward written requests for copies of the document to Washington Headquarters Services, Executive Services Division, Freedom of Information Division, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1155.
1
Copies may be obtained at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/ins2.html.
(b) All persons entering or upon the Pentagon Reservation shall, when required and/or requested, display identification to authorized persons.
(c) All packages, briefcases, and other containers brought into, on, or being removed from facilities or restricted areas on the Pentagon Reservation are subject to inspection and search by authorized persons. Persons entering on facilities or restricted areas who refuse to permit an inspection and search will be denied entry.
(d) Any person or organization desiring to conduct activities anywhere on the Pentagon Reservation shall file an application for permit with the applicable Building Management Office or Installation Commander. Such application shall be made on a form provided by the Department of Defense and shall be submitted in the manner specified by the Department of Defense. Violation of the conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the loss of access to the Pentagon Reservation.
§ 234.4
Trespassing.
(a) Trespassing, entering, or remaining in or upon property not open to the public, except with the express invitation or consent of the person or persons having lawful control of the property, is prohibited. Failure to obey an order to leave under paragraph (b) of this section, or reentry upon property after being ordered to leave or not reenter under paragraph (b) of this section, is also prohibited.
(b) Any person who violates a Department of Defense rule or regulation may be ordered to leave the Pentagon Reservation by an authorized person. A violator's reentry may also be prohibited.
§ 234.5
Compliance with official signs.
Persons on the Pentagon Reservation shall at all times comply with official signs of a prohibitory, regulatory, or directory nature.
§ 234.6
Interfering with agency functions.
The following are prohibited:
(a)
Interference.
Threatening, resisting, intimidating, or intentionally interfering with a government employee or agent engaged in an official duty, or on account of the performance of an official duty.
(b)
Violation of a lawful order.
Violating the lawful order of a government employee or agent authorized to maintain order and control public access and movement during fire fighting operations, search and rescue operations, law enforcement actions, and emergency operations that involve a threat to public safety or government resources, or other activities where the control of public movement and activities is necessary to maintain order and public health or safety.
(c)
False information.
Knowingly giving a false or fictitious report or other false information:
(1) To an authorized person investigating an accident or violation of law or regulation, or
(2) On an application for a permit.
(d)
False report.
Knowingly giving a false report for the purpose of misleading a government employee or agent in the conduct of official duties, or making a false report that causes a response by the government to a fictitious event.
§ 234.7
Disorderly conduct.
A person commits disorderly conduct when, with intent to cause public alarm, nuisance, jeopardy, or violence, or knowingly or recklessly creating a risk thereof, such person commits any of the following prohibited acts:
(a) Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent behavior.
(b) Uses language, an utterance, or gesture, or engages in a display or act that is obscene, physically threatening or menacing, or done in a manner that is likely to inflict injury or incite an immediate breach of the peace.
(c) Makes noise that is unreasonable, considering the nature and purpose of the actor's conduct, location, time of day or night, and other factors that would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under the circumstances.
(d) Creates or maintains a hazardous or physically offensive condition.
(e) Impedes or threatens the security of persons or property, or disrupts the performance of official duties by Department of Defense employees, or obstructs the use of areas such as entrances, foyers, lobbies, corridors, concourses, offices, elevators, stairways, roadways, driveways, walkways, or parking lots.
§ 234.8
Preservation of property.
Willfully destroying or damaging private or government property is prohibited. The throwing of articles of any kind from or at buildings or persons, improper disposal of rubbish, and open fires are also prohibited.
§ 234.9
Explosives.
(a) Using, possessing, storing, or transporting explosives, blasting agents or explosive materials is prohibited, except pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit issued by the applicable Building Management Office or Installation Commander. When permitted, the use, possession, storage and transportation shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State law.
(b) Using or possessing fireworks or firecrackers is prohibited.
(c) Violation of the conditions established by the applicable Building Management Office or Installation Commander or of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the loss of access to the Pentagon Reservation.
§ 234.10
Weapons.
(a) Except as otherwise authorized under this section, the following are prohibited:
(1) Possessing a weapon.
(2) Carrying a weapon.
(3) Using a weapon.
(b) This section does not apply to any agency or Department of Defense component that has received prior written approval from the Pentagon Force Protection Agency or the Installation Commander to carry, transport, or use a weapon in support of a security, law enforcement, or other lawful purpose while on the Pentagon Reservation.
§ 234.11
Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
(a)
Alcoholic beverages.
The consumption of alcoholic beverages or the possession of an open container of an alcoholic beverage within the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited unless authorized by the Director, Washington Headquarters Services, or his designee, the Installation Commander, or the Heads of the Military Departments, or their designees. Written notice of such authorizations shall be provided to the Pentagon Force Protection Agency.
(b) Controlled substances. The following are prohibited:
(1) The delivery of a controlled substance, except when distribution is made by a licensed physician or pharmacist in accordance with applicable law. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery means the actual, attempted, or constructive transfer of a controlled substance.
(2) The possession of a controlled substance, unless such substance was obtained by the possessor directly from, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order by, a licensed physician or pharmacist, or as otherwise allowed by Federal or State law.
(c) Presence on the Pentagon Reservation when under the influence of alcohol, a drug, a controlled substance, or any combination thereof, to a degree that may endanger oneself or another person, or damage property, is prohibited.
§ 234.12
Restriction on animals.
Animals, except guide dogs for persons with disabilities, shall not be brought upon the Pentagon Reservation for other than official purposes.
§ 234.13
Soliciting, vending, and debt collection.
Commercial or political soliciting, vending of all kinds, displaying or distributing commercial advertising, collecting private debts or soliciting alms upon the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited. This does not apply to:
(a) National or local drives for funds for welfare, health, or other purposes as authorized by 5 CFR parts 110 and 950, Solicitation of Federal Civilian and Uniformed Services Personnel for Contributions to Private Voluntary Organizations, issued by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management under Executive Order 12353, 3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 139, as amended.
(b) Personal notices posted on authorized bulletin boards, and in compliance with building rules governing the use of such authorized bulletin boards, advertising to sell or rent property of Pentagon Reservation employees or their immediate families.
(c) Solicitation of labor organization membership or dues authorized by the Department of Defense under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.
(d) Licensees, or their agents and employees, with respect to space licensed for their use.
(e) Solicitations conducted by organizations composed of civilian employees of the Department of Defense or members of the uniformed services among their own members for organizational support or for the benefit of welfare funds for their members, after compliance with the requirements of § 234.3(d).
§ 234.14
Posting of materials.
Posting or affixing materials, such as pamphlets, handbills, or fliers on the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited except as provided by § 234.13(b) or when conducted as part of activities approved by the applicable Building Management Office or Installation Commander under § 234.3(d).
§ 234.15
Use of visual recording devices.
(a) The use of cameras or other visual recording devices on the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited, unless the use of such items are approved by the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, the Installation Commander, or the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.
(b) It shall be unlawful to make any photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map or graphical representation of the Pentagon Reservation without first obtaining permission of the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, Installation Commander, or the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.
§ 234.16
Gambling.
Gambling in any form, or the operation of gambling devices, is prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to the vending or exchange of chances by licensed blind operators of vending facilities for any lottery set forth in a State law and authorized by the provisions of the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107,
et seq.
).
§ 234.17
Vehicles and traffic safety.
(a)
In general.
Unless specifically addressed by regulations in this part, traffic and the use of vehicles within the Pentagon Reservation are governed by State law. Violating a provision of State law is prohibited.
(b)
Open container of an alcoholic beverage.
(1) Each person within a vehicle is responsible for complying with the provisions of this section that pertain to carrying an open container. The operator of a vehicle is the person responsible for complying with the provisions
of this section that pertain to the storage of an open container.
(2) Carrying or storing a bottle, can, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage that is open or has been opened, or whose seal is broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, within a vehicle on the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited.
(3) This section does not apply to:
(i) An open container stored in the trunk of a vehicle or, if a vehicle is not equipped with a trunk, an open container stored in some other portion of the vehicle designed for the storage of luggage and not normally occupied by or readily accessible to the operator or passengers; or
(ii) An open container stored in the living quarters of a motor home or camper.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a utility compartment or glove compartment is deemed to be readily accessible to the operator and passengers of a vehicle.
(c)
Operating under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or controlled substances.
(1) Operating or being in actual physical control of a vehicle is prohibited while:
(i) Under the influence of alcohol, a drug or drugs, a controlled substance or controlled substances, or any combination thereof, to a degree that renders the operator incapable of safe operation; or
(ii) The alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath is 0.08 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 0.08 grams or more of alcohol per 210 liters of breath. Provided, however, that if State law that applies to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol establishes more restrictive limits of alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath, those limits supersede the limits specified in this paragraph.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall also apply to an operator who is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol or another drug.
(3) Tests.
(i) At the request or direction of an authorized person who has probable cause to believe that an operator of a vehicle within the Pentagon Reservation has violated a provision of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the operator shall submit to one or more tests of the blood, breath, saliva, or urine for the purpose of determining blood alcohol, drug, and controlled substance content.
(ii) Refusal by an operator to submit to a test is prohibited and may result in detention and citation by an authorized person. Proof of refusal may be admissible in any related judicial proceeding.
(iii) Any test or tests for the presence of alcohol, drugs, and controlled substances shall be determined by and administered at the direction of an authorized person.
(iv) Any test shall be conducted by using accepted scientific methods and equipment of proven accuracy and reliability operated by personnel certified in its use.
(4) Presumptive levels.
(i) The results of chemical or other quantitative tests are intended to supplement the elements of probable cause used as the basis for the arrest of an operator charged with a violation of this section. If the alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath at the time of the testing is less than the alcohol concentration specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, this fact does not give rise to any presumption that the operator is or is not under the influence of alcohol.
(ii) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4)(i) of this section are not intended to limit the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the question of whether the operator, at the time of the alleged violation, was under the influence of alcohol, a drug or drugs, or a controlled substance or controlled substances, or any combination thereof.
§ 234.18
Enforcement of parking regulations.
Parking regulations for the Pentagon Reservation shall be enforced in accordance with the Pentagon Reservation Parking Program and State law; violating such provisions is prohibited. A vehicle parked in any location without authorization, or parked contrary to the directions of posted signs or markings, shall be subject to removal at the owner's risk and expense, in addition to any penalties imposed. The
Department of Defense assumes no responsibility for the payment of any fees or costs related to such removal which may be charged to the owner of the vehicle by the towing organization. This section may be supplemented from time to time with the approval of the Director, Washington Headquarters Services, or his designee, or the Installation Commander, by the issuance and posting of such parking directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted such directive shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.
§ 234.19
Penalties and effect on other laws.
(a) Whoever shall be found guilty of willfully violating any rule or regulation enumerated in this part is subject to the penalties imposed by Federal law for the commission of a Class B misdemeanor offense.
(b) Whoever violates any rule or regulation enumerated in this part is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws.
Pt. 236

# PART 236—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DoD) DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE (DIB) CYBERSECURITY (CS) ACTIVITIES
Sec.
236.1
Purpose.
236.2
Definitions.
236.3
Policy.
236.4
Mandatory cyber incident reporting procedures.
236.5
DoD's DIB CS Program.
236.6
General provisions of DoD's DIB CS Program.
236.7
DoD's DIB CS Program requirements.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 391, 393, and 2224; 44 U.S.C. 3506 and 3554; 50 U.S.C. 3330.

# Source:
80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 236.1
Purpose.
Cyber threats to contractor unclassified information systems represent an unacceptable risk of compromise of DoD information and pose an imminent threat to U.S. national security and economic security interests. This part requires all DoD contractors to rapidly report cyber incidents involving covered defense information on their covered contractor information systems or cyber incidents affecting the contractor's ability to provide operationally critical support. The part also permits eligible DoD contractors to participate in the voluntary DIB CS Program to share cyber threat information and cybersecurity best practices with DIB CS Program participants. The DIB CS Program enhances and supplements DIB CS Program participants' capabilities to safeguard DoD information that resides on, or transits, DIB unclassified information systems.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17747, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 236.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Cleared defense contractor (CDC)
means a private entity granted clearance by DoD to access, receive, or store classified information for the purpose of bidding for a contract or conducting activities in support of any program of DoD.
Compromise
means disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, or a violation of the security policy of a system, in which unauthorized intentional or unintentional disclosure, modification, destruction, or loss of an object, or the copying of information to unauthorized media may have occurred.
Contractor
means an individual or organization outside the U.S. Government who has accepted any type of agreement or order to provide research, supplies, or services to DoD, including prime contractors and subcontractors.
Contractor attributional/proprietary information
means information that identifies the contractor(s), whether directly or indirectly, by the grouping of information that can be traced back to the contractor(s) (
e.g.,
program description, facility locations), personally identifiable information, as well as trade secrets, commercial or financial information, or other commercially sensitive information that is not customarily shared outside of the company.
Controlled Technical Information
means technical information with military or space application that is subject to controls on the access, use, reproduction, modification, performance, display, release, disclosure, or dissemination. Controlled technical information would meet the criteria, if disseminated, for distribution statements B through F using the criteria set forth in DoD Instruction 5230.24, “Distribution Statements of Technical Documents,” available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523024p.pdf
. The term does not include information that is lawfully publicly available without restrictions.
Covered contractor information system
means an unclassified information system that is owned or operated by or for a contractor and that processes, stores, or transmits covered defense information.
Covered defense information
means unclassified controlled technical information or other information (as described in the Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Registry at
http://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/category-list.html
) that requires safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with law, regulations, and Government wide policies, and is:
(1) Marked or otherwise identified in an agreement and provided to the contractor by or on behalf of the DoD in support of the performance of the agreement; or
(2) Collected, developed, received, transmitted, used, or stored by or on behalf of the contractor in support of the performance of the agreement.
Cyber incident
means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in a compromise or an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein.
Cyber incident damage assessment
means a managed, coordinated process to determine the effect on defense programs, defense scientific and research projects, or defense warfighting capabilities resulting from compromise of a contractor's unclassified computer system or network.
Defense Industrial Base (DIB)
means the Department of Defense, Government, and private sector worldwide industrial complex with capabilities to perform research and development, design, produce, and maintain military weapon systems, subsystems, components, or parts to satisfy military requirements.
DIB CS Program participant
means a contractor that has met all of the eligibility requirements to participate in the voluntary DIB CS Program as set forth in this part (see § 236.7).
Forensic analysis
means the practice of gathering, retaining, and analyzing computer-related data for investigative purposes in a manner that maintains the integrity of the data.
Government furnished information (GFI)
means information provided by the Government under the voluntary DIB CS Program including but not limited to cyber threat information and cybersecurity practices.
Information
means any communication or representation of knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual.
Information system
means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
Malicious software
means software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system. This definition includes a virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host, as well as spyware and some forms of adware.
Media
means physical devices or writing surfaces, including but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration memory chips, and printouts onto which covered defense information is recorded, stored, or printed within a covered contractor information system.
Operationally critical support
means supplies or services designated by the Government as critical for airlift, sealift, intermodal transportation services, or logistical support that is essential to the mobilization, deployment,
or sustainment of the Armed Forces in a contingency operation.
Rapid(ly) report(ing)
means within 72 hours of discovery of any cyber incident.
Technical Information
means technical data or computer software, as those terms are defined in DFARS 252.227-7013, “Rights in Technical Data—Noncommercial Items” (48 CFR 252.227-7013). Examples of technical information include research and engineering data, engineering drawings and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, technical orders, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses and related information, and computer software executable code and source code.
Threat
means any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organization operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organization assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through an information system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information and/or denial of service.
U.S. based
means provisioned, maintained, or operated within the physical boundaries of the United States.
U.S. citizen
means a person born in the United States or naturalized.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17747, Mar. 12, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016, § 236.2 was amended; however, a portion of the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 236.3
Policy.
It is DoD policy to:
(a) Establish a comprehensive approach to require safeguarding of covered defense information on covered contractor information systems and to require contractor cyber incident reporting.
(b) Increase Government stakeholder and DIB situational awareness of the extent and severity of cyber threats to DoD information by implementing a streamlined approval process that enables the contractor to elect, in conjunction with the cyber incident reporting and sharing, the extent to which DoD may share cyber threat information obtained from a contractor (or derived from information obtained from the company) under this part that is not information created by or for DoD with:
(1) DIB CS Program participants to enhance their cybersecurity posture to better protect covered defense information on covered contractor information systems, or a contractor's ability to provide operationally critical support; and
(2) Other Government stakeholders for lawful Government activities, including cybersecurity for the protection of Government information or information systems, law enforcement and counterintelligence (LE/CI), and other lawful national security activities directed against the cyber threat (
e.g.,
those attempting to infiltrate and compromise information on the contractor information systems).
(c) Modify eligibility criteria to permit greater participation in the voluntary DIB CS Program.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17747, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 236.4
Mandatory cyber incident reporting procedures.
(a)
Applicability and order of precedence.
The requirement to report cyber incidents shall be included in all forms of agreements (
e.g.,
contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, other transaction agreements, technology investment agreements, and any other type of legal instrument or agreement) between the Government and the contractor in which covered defense information resides on, or transits covered contractor information systems or under which a contractor provides operationally critical support, and shall be identical to those requirements provided in this section (
e.g.,
by incorporating the requirements of this section by reference, or by expressly setting forth such reporting requirements consistent with those of this section). Any inconsistency between the relevant terms and condition of any such agreement and this section shall be resolved in favor of the terms and conditions of the agreement, provided and to the extent that such terms and conditions are authorized to have been included in the agreement in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
(b)
Cyber incident reporting requirement.
When a contractor discovers a cyber incident that affects a covered contractor information system or the covered defense information residing therein or that affects the contractor's ability to provide operationally critical support, the contractor shall:
(1) Conduct a review for evidence of compromise of covered defense information including, but not limited to, identifying compromised computers, servers, specific data, and user accounts. This review shall also include analyzing covered contractor information system(s) that were part of the cyber incident, as well as other information systems on the contractor's network(s), that may have been accessed as a result of the incident in order to identify compromised covered defense information, or that affect the contractor's ability to provide operationally critical support; and
(2) Rapidly report cyber incidents to DoD at
https://dibnet.dod.mil
.
(c)
Cyber incident report.
The cyber incident report shall be treated as information created by or for DoD and shall include, at a minimum, the required elements at
https://dibnet.dod.mil
.
(d)
Subcontractor reporting procedures.
Contractors shall flow down the cyber incident reporting requirements of this part to their subcontractors that are providing operationally critical support or for which subcontract performance will involve a covered contractor information system. Contractors shall require subcontractors to rapidly report cyber incidents directly to DoD at
https://dibnet.dod.mil
and the prime contractor. This includes providing the incident report number, automatically assigned by DoD, to the prime contractor (or next higher-tier subcontractor) as soon as practicable.
(e)
Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE) account requirement.
To report cyber incidents in accordance with this section, the contractor or subcontractor shall have a PIEE account to access
https://dibnet.dod.mil.
For information on obtaining a PIEE account, see
https://piee.eb.mil/.
(f)
Third-party service provider support.
If the contractor utilizes a third-party service provider (SP) for information system security services, the contractor may authorize the SP to report cyber incidents on behalf of the contractor.
(g)
Voluntary information sharing.
Contractors are encouraged to report information to promote sharing of cyber threat indicators that they believe are valuable in alerting the Government and others, as appropriate, in order to better counter threat actor activity. Cyber incidents that are not compromises of covered defense information or do not adversely affect the contractor's ability to perform operationally critical support may be of interest to the DIB and DoD for situational awareness purposes.
(h)
Malicious software.
Malicious software discovered and isolated by the contractor will be submitted to the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3) for forensic analysis.
(i)
Media preservation and protection.
When a contractor discovers a cyber incident has occurred, the contractor shall preserve and protect images of known affected information systems identified in paragraph (b) of this section and all relevant monitoring/packet capture data for at least 90 days from submission of the cyber incident report to allow DoD to request the media or decline interest.
(j)
Access to additional information or equipment necessary for forensics analysis.
Upon request by DoD, the contractor shall provide DoD with access to additional information or equipment that is necessary to conduct a forensic analysis.
(k)
Cyber incident damage assessment activities.
If DoD elects to conduct a damage assessment, DoD will request that the contractor provide all of the damage assessment information gathered in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(l)
DoD safeguarding and use of contractor attributional/proprietary information.
The Government shall protect against the unauthorized use or release of information obtained from the contractor (or derived from information obtained from the contractor) under this part that includes contractor attributional/proprietary information, including such information submitted
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. To the maximum extent practicable, the contractor shall identify and mark attributional/proprietary information. In making an authorized release of such information, the Government will implement appropriate procedures to minimize the contractor attributional/proprietary information that is included in such authorized release, seeking to include only that information that is necessary for the authorized purpose(s) for which the information is being released.
(m)
Use and release of contractor attributional/proprietary information not created by or for DoD.
Information that is obtained from the contractor (or derived from information obtained from the contractor) under this part that is not created by or for DoD is authorized to be released outside of DoD:
(1) To entities with missions that may be affected by such information;
(2) To entities that may be called upon to assist in the diagnosis, detection, or mitigation of cyber incidents;
(3) To Government entities that conduct LE/CI investigations;
(4) For national security purposes, including cyber situational awareness and defense purposes (including sharing non-attributional cyber threat information with defense contractors participating in the DIB CS Program authorized by this part); or
(5) To a support services contractor (“recipient”) that is directly supporting Government activities related to this part and is bound by use and non-disclosure restrictions that include all of the following conditions:
(i) The recipient shall access and use the information only for the purpose of furnishing advice or technical assistance directly to the Government in support of the Government's activities related to this part, and shall not be used for any other purpose;
(ii) The recipient shall protect the information against unauthorized release or disclosure;
(iii) The recipient shall ensure that its employees are subject to use and non-disclosure obligations consistent with this part prior to the employees being provided access to or use of the information;
(iv) The third-party contractor that reported the cyber incident is a third-party beneficiary of the non-disclosure agreement between the Government and the recipient, as required by paragraph (m)(5)(iii) of this section;
(v) That a breach of these obligations or restrictions may subject the recipient to:
(A) Criminal, civil, administrative, and contractual actions in law and equity for penalties, damages, and other appropriate remedies by the United States; and
(B) Civil actions for damages and other appropriate remedies by the third party that reported the incident, as a third party beneficiary of the non-disclosure agreement.
(n) Use and release of contractor attributional/proprietary information created by or for DoD. Information that is obtained from the contractor (or derived from information obtained from the contractor) under this part that is created by or for DoD (including the information submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section) is authorized to be used and released outside of DoD for purposes and activities authorized by this section, and for any other lawful Government purpose or activity, subject to all applicable statutory, regulatory, and policy based restrictions on the Government's use and release of such information.
(o)
Contractor activities.
Contractors shall conduct their respective activities under this part in accordance with applicable laws and regulations on the interception, monitoring, access, use, and disclosure of electronic communications and data.
(p)
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
Agency records, which may include qualifying information received from non-Federal entities, are subject to request under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The Government will notify the non-Government source or submitter (
e.g.,
contractor or DIB CS Program participant) of the information in accordance with the procedures in 32 CFR 286.10.
(q)
Other reporting requirements.
Cyber incident reporting required by this part in no way abrogates the contractor's responsibility for other cyber incident reporting pertaining to its unclassified
information systems under other clauses that may apply to its contract(s), or as a result of other applicable U.S. Government statutory or regulatory requirements, including Federal or DoD requirements for Controlled Unclassified Information as established by Executive Order 13556, as well as regulations and guidance established pursuant thereto.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17747, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 236.5
DoD's DIB CS Program.
(a) All defense contractors that meet the requirements set forth in § 236.7 are eligible to join the DIB CS Program as a DIB CS Program participant. Defense contractors meeting the additional eligibility requirements in § 236.7 can elect to access and receive classified information electronically.
(b) Under the voluntary activities of the DIB CS Program, the Government and each DIB CS Program participant will execute a standardized agreement, referred to as a Framework Agreement (FA) to share, in a timely and secure manner, on a recurring basis, and to the greatest extent possible, cybersecurity information.
(c) Each such FA between the Government and a DIB CS Program participant must comply with and implement the requirements of this part, and will include additional terms and conditions as necessary to effectively implement the voluntary information sharing activities described in this part with individual DIB CS Program participants.
(d) DoD's DIB CS Program Management Office is the overall point of contact for the program. The DC3 managed DoD-DIB Collaborative Information Sharing Environment (DCISE) is the operational focal point for cyber threat information sharing and incident reporting under the DIB CS Program.
(e) The Government will maintain a website or other internet-based capability to provide potential DIB CS Program participants with information about eligibility and participation in the program, to enable online application or registration for participation, and to support the execution of necessary agreements with the Government.
(f) As participants of the DIB CS Program, defense contractors are encouraged to share cyber threat indicators and information that they believe are valuable in alerting the Government and other DIB CS Program participants to better counter threat actor activity. Cyber activity that is not covered under § 236.4 may be of interest to DIB CS Program participants and DoD.
(g) The Government shall share GFI DIB CS Program participant or designated SP in accordance with this part.
(h) Prior to receiving GFI, each DIB CS Program participant shall provide the requisite points of contact information, to include U.S. citizenship and security clearance information, as applicable, for the designated personnel within their company in order to facilitate the DoD-DIB interaction in the DIB CS Program. The Government will confirm the accuracy of the information provided as a condition of that point of contact being authorized to act on behalf of the DIB CS Program participant for this program.
(i) GFI will be issued via both unclassified and classified means. DIB CS Program participants handling and safeguarding of classified information shall be in compliance with 32 CFR part 117. The Government shall specify transmission and distribution procedures for all GFI, and shall inform DIB CS Program participants of any revisions to previously specified transmission or procedures.
(j) Except as authorized in this part or in writing by the Government, DIB CS Program participants may:
(1) Use GFI only on U.S. based covered contractor information systems, or U.S. based networks or information systems used to provide operationally critical support; and
(2) Share GFI only within their company or organization, on a need-to-know basis, with distribution restricted to U.S. citizens.
(k) In individual cases DIB CS Program participants may request, and the Government may authorize, disclosure and use of GFI under applicable terms and conditions when the DIB CS Program participant can demonstrate that appropriate information handling
and protection mechanisms are in place and has determined that it requires the ability:
(1) To share the GFI with a non-U.S. citizen; or
(2) To use the GFI on a non-U.S. based covered contractor information system; or
(3) To use the GFI on a non-U.S. based network or information system in order to better protect a contractor's ability to provide operationally critical support.
(l) DIB CS Program participants shall maintain the capability to electronically disseminate GFI within the Company in an encrypted fashion (
e.g.,
using Secure/Multipurpose internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME), secure socket layer (SSL), Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol version 1.2, DoD-approved medium assurance certificates).
(m) DIB CS Program participants shall not share GFI outside of their company or organization, regardless of personnel clearance level, except as authorized in this part or otherwise authorized in writing by the Government.
(n) If the DIB CS Program participant utilizes a SP for information system security services, the DIB CS Program participant may share GFI with that SP under the following conditions and as authorized in writing by the Government:
(1) The DIB CS Program participant must identify the SP to the Government and request permission to share or disclose any GFI with that SP (which may include a request that the Government share information directly with the SP on behalf of the DIB CS Program participant) solely for the authorized purposes of this program.
(2) The SP must provide the Government with sufficient information to enable the Government to determine whether the SP is eligible to receive such information, and possesses the capability to provide appropriate protections for the GFI.
(3) Upon approval by the Government, the SP must enter into a legally binding agreement with the DIB CS Program participant (and also an appropriate agreement with the Government in any case in which the SP will receive or share information directly with the Government on behalf of the DIB CS Program participant) under which the SP is subject to all applicable requirements of this part and of any supplemental terms and conditions in the DIB CS Program participant's FA with the Government, and which authorizes the SP to use the GFI only as authorized by the Government.
(o) The DIB CS Program participant may not sell, lease, license, or otherwise incorporate the GFI into its products or services, except that this does not prohibit a DIB CS Program participant from being appropriately designated an SP in accordance with paragraph (n) of this section.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17747, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 236.6
General provisions of DoD's DIB CS Program.
(a) Confidentiality of information that is exchanged under the DIB CS Program will be protected to the maximum extent authorized by law, regulation, and policy. DoD and DIB CS Program participants each bear responsibility for their own actions under the voluntary DIB CS Program.
(b) All DIB CS Program participants may participate in the Department of Homeland Security's Enhanced Cybersecurity Services (ECS) program (
https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/programs/enhanced-cybersecurity-services-ecs
).
(c) Participation in the voluntary DIB CS Program does not obligate the DIB CS Program participant to utilize the GFI in, or otherwise to implement any changes to, its information systems. Any action taken by the DIB CS Program participant based on the GFI or other participation in this program is taken on the DIB CS Program participant's own volition and at its own risk and expense.
(d) A DIB CS Program participant's participation in the voluntary DIB CS Program is not intended to create any unfair competitive advantage or disadvantage in DoD source selections or competitions, or to provide any other form of unfair preferential treatment, and shall not in any way be represented or interpreted as a Government endorsement or approval of the
DIB CS Program participant, its information systems, or its products or services.
(e) The DIB CS Program participant and the Government may each unilaterally limit or discontinue participation in the voluntary DIB CS Program at any time. Termination shall not relieve the DIB CS Program participant or the Government from obligations to continue to protect against the unauthorized use or disclosure of GFI, attribution information, contractor proprietary information, third-party proprietary information, or any other information exchanged under this program, as required by law, regulation, contract, or the FA.
(f) Upon termination of the FA, change of status as a defense contractor, and/or change of Facility Security Clearance (FCL) status below Secret, GFI must be returned to the Government or destroyed pursuant to direction of, and at the discretion of, the Government.
(g) Participation in these activities does not abrogate the Government's, or the DIB CS Program participants' rights or obligations regarding the handling, safeguarding, sharing, or reporting of information, or regarding any physical, personnel, or other security requirements, as required by law, regulation, policy, or a valid legal contractual obligation. However, participation in the voluntary activities of the DIB CS Program does not eliminate the requirement for DIB CS Program participants to report cyber incidents in accordance with § 236.4.
[80 FR 59584, Oct. 2, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 68317, Oct. 4, 2016; 89 FR 17748, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 236.7
DoD's DIB CS Program requirements.
(a) To participate in the DIB CS Program, a contractor must own or operate a covered contractor information system and shall execute the standardized FA with the Government (available during the application process), which implements the requirements set forth in §§ 236.5 and 236.6.
(b) In order for DIB CS Program participants to receive classified cyber threat information electronically, the company must be a cleared defense contractor and must:
(1) Have an existing active facility clearance level (FCL) to at least the Secret level in accordance with 32 CFR part 117;
(2) Have or acquire a Communication Security (COMSEC) account in accordance with 32 CFR part 117, which provides procedures and requirements for COMSEC activities;
(3) Have or acquire approved safeguarding for at least Secret information, and continue to qualify under 32 CFR part 117 for retention of its FCL and approved safeguarding; and
(4) Obtain access to DoD's secure voice and data transmission systems supporting the voluntary DIB CS Program.
[89 FR 17749, Mar. 12, 2024]
Pt. 238

# PART 238—DoD ASSISTANCE TO NON-GOVERNMENT, ENTERTAINMENT-ORIENTED MEDIA PRODUCTIONS
Sec.
238.1
Purpose.
238.2
Applicability.
238.3
Definitions.
238.4
Policy.
238.5
Responsibilities.
238.6
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 238—Sample Production Assistance Agreement
Appendix B to Part 238—Sample Documentary Production Assistance Agreement

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2264; 31 U.S.C. 9701.

# Source:
80 FR 47836, Aug. 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 238.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for DoD assistance to non-Government entertainment media productions such as feature motion pictures, episodic television programs, documentaries, and electronic games.
§ 238.2
Applicability.
This part:
(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the combatant commands, the
Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
(b) Does not apply to productions that are intended to inform the public of fast-breaking or developing news stories.
§ 238.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, this term and its definition are for the purposes of this part.
Assistance (as in “DoD Assistance to Non-Government, Entertainment-Oriented Media Productions”).
The variety of support that the DoD can provide. The assistance ranges from supplying technical advice during script development, to allowing access to military installations for production.
§ 238.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) DoD assistance may be provided to an entertainment media production, to include fictional portrayals, when cooperation of the producers with the Department of Defense benefits the Department of Defense, or when such cooperation would be in the best interest of the Nation based on whether the production:
(1) Presents a reasonably realistic depiction of the Military Services and the Department of Defense, including Service members, civilian personnel, events, missions, assets, and policies;
(2) Is informational and considered likely to contribute to public understanding of the Military Services and the Department of Defense; or
(3) May benefit Military Service recruiting and retention programs.
(b) DoD assistance to an entertainment-oriented media production will not deviate from established DoD safety and environmental standards, nor will it impair the operational readiness of the Military Services. Diversion of equipment, personnel, and material resources will be kept to a minimum.
(c) The production company will reimburse the Government for any expenses incurred as a result of DoD assistance rendered in accordance with the procedures in this part.
(d) Official activities of Service personnel in assisting the production; use of official DoD property, facilities, and material; and employment of Service members in an off-duty, non-official status will be in accordance with the procedures in this part.
(e) Footage shot with DoD assistance and official DoD footage released for a specific production will not be reused for or sold to other productions without Department of Defense approval.
§ 238.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ATSD(PA)) will serve as the sole authority for approving DoD assistance, including DoD involvement in marketing and publicity, to non-Government entertainment-oriented media. The ATSD(PA) will make DoD commitments, in consultation with the Heads of the Military Components, only after:
(1) The script, treatment, or narrative description is found to qualify in accordance with the general principles in § 238.4(a).
(2) The support requested is determined to be feasible.
(3) For episodic television, motion pictures, and other nondocumentary entertainment media productions, the producer has an acceptable public exhibition agreement with a recognized exhibition entity (
i.e.,
studio or network), and the capability to complete the production (
i.e.,
completion bond or other industry-recognized guarantor of completion, such as the commitment of a major studio or other source of financial commitment). For documentaries, the producer has indicated a clear capability to complete the production.
(b) The Heads of the Military Components will develop procedures for implementing this part and will ensure that the requirements of this part are met.
§ 238.6
Procedures.
(a)
General.
(1) The producer will be required to sign a written Production Assistance Agreement (see appendices A and B of this part for sample documents), explaining the terms under which DoD's production assistance is
provided, with the designee of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, and may be required to post advance payment or a letter of credit issued by a recognized financial institution to cover the estimated costs before receiving DoD assistance.
(2) Official activities of Service members in assisting the production must be within the scope of normal military activities. On-duty service members and DoD civilians are prohibited from serving as actors, such as by speaking filmmaker-invented, or scripted dialogue, unless approved in writing by the ATSD(PA) or his or her designee. With the exception of assigned project officer(s) and technical advisor(s), Service members and DoD civilians will not be assigned to perform functions outside the scope of their normal duties.
(3) Official personnel services and DoD material will not be employed in such a manner as to compete directly with commercial and private enterprises. DoD assets may be provided when similar civilian assets are not reasonably available.
(4) The production company may hire Service members in an off-duty, non-official status to perform as extras or actors in minor roles, etc., provided there is no conflict with any existing Service regulation. In such cases, contractual arrangements are solely between those individuals and the production company; however, payment should be consistent with current industry standards. The producer is responsible for resolving any disputes with unions governing the hiring of non-union actors and extras. Service members accepting such employment will comply with the standards of conduct in DoD Directive 5500.07, “Standards of Conduct” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550007p.pdf
). The Heads of the Components may assist the production company in publicizing the opportunity for employment and in identifying appropriate personnel.
(5) The production company will restore all Government property and facilities used in the production to the same or better condition as when they were made available for the company's use. This includes cleaning the site and removing trash.
(6) The DoD project officer, described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, may make DoD motion and still media archival materials available when a production qualifies for assistance in accordance with the general principles in § 238.4(a).
(b)
Specific procedures
—(1)
Script development and review.
(i) Before a producer officially submits a project to the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OATSD(PA)), the Military Components are authorized to assist entertainment-oriented media producers, scriptwriters, etc., in their efforts to develop a script that might ultimately qualify for DoD assistance. Such activities could include guidance, suggestions, answers to research queries for technical research, and interviews with technical experts. However, the Military Departments providing such assistance are required to coordinate with and update OATSD(PA) of the status of such projects. Military Components will refrain from making commitments and rendering official DoD opinions until first coordinating through appropriate channels to obtain OATSD(PA) concurrence in such actions.
(ii) Production company officials requesting DoD assistance will submit a completed script (or a treatment or narrative description for documentaries), along with a list of desired support. If a definitive list is not available when the script is initially submitted, requirements should be stated in general terms at the outset. However, no DoD commitment will be made until the detailed list of support requested has been reviewed and deemed to be feasible.
(iii) OATSD(PA) will coordinate the review of scripts, treatment, or narrative description submitted for production assistance consideration. The coordinated review will include each Military Service depicted in the script. Although no commitment for assisting in the production is implied, OATSD(PA) may provide, or authorize the Military Services to provide, further guidance and suggestions for
changes that might resolve problems that would prevent DoD assistance.
(2)
Production assistance notification.
Upon reviewing the recommendations of the Military Components concerned, the ATSD(PA) will determine whether a given production meets the DoD criteria for support and if the support requested is feasible. If both requirements are satisfied, the ATSD(PA) will notify in writing the production company concerned, advising it that the Department of Defense has approved DoD production assistance and identifying the DoD project officer tasked with representing the Department of Defense throughout the production process. On a case-by-case basis, the ATSD(PA) may choose to delegate the responsibility of signing the Production Assistance Agreement on behalf of DoD to the designated DoD project officer or other DoD official responsible for coordinating production assistance. If so, this decision would be included in the notification letter. If production assistance is approved for only a portion of the proposed project, the written notification shall clearly describe the portion(s) approved. If assistance is not approved, ATSD(PA) or the ATSD(PA)'s designee will send a letter to the production company stating reasons for disapproval.
(3)
Role of the DoD project officer.
(i) When production assistance has been approved, the Military Components will assign a project officer (commissioned, non-commissioned, or civilian) who will be designated by OATSD(PA) as the principal DoD liaison to the production company. The DoD project officer will at a minimum:
(A) Act as liaison between the production company and the Secretaries of the Military Departments and maintain contact with OATSD(PA) through appropriate channels. In this regard, the project officer will serve as the central coordinator for billing the producer and monitoring payments to the Government. (See paragraph (d) of this section for billing procedures.)
(B) Advise the production company on technical aspects and arrange for information necessary to ensure reasonably accurate and authentic portrayals of the Department of Defense.
(C) Maintain liaison with units and commands providing assistance to ensure timely arrangements consistent with the approved support.
(D) Coordinate with installations or commands that intend to provide support to the production to ensure that no material assistance is provided before a Production Assistance Agreement is signed by both DoD and the production company.
(E) When DoD assistance to the production requires the production company to reimburse the Government for additional expenses, develop an estimate of expenses based on the assistance requested, and ensure that these are reflected in the Production Assistance Agreement.
(F) Coordinate with each installation or command providing assets to the production to ensure the production company receives accurate and prompt statements of charges assessed by the Government and that the Government receives sufficient payment for any additional expenses incurred to support the production.
(G) For project officers assigned to a documentary or a non-documentary television series, maintain close liaison with the producer(s) and writers in developing story outlines. All story ideas considered for further development by the production company should be submitted to OATSD(PA) to provide the earliest opportunity for appraisal.
(ii) When considered to be in the best interest of the Department of Defense, the assigned project officer may provide “on-scene” assistance to the production company. Military or civilian technical advisor(s) may also be required. In such cases:
(A) Assignment will be at no additional cost to the Government. The production company will assume payment of such items as travel (air, rental car, reimbursement for fuel, etc.) and per diem (lodging, food and incidentals).
(B) Assignment should be for the length of time required to meet preproduction requirements through completion of photography. When feasible, assignment may be extended to cover post-production stages and site clean-up.
(iii) Additional project officer responsibilities, when considered to be in the best interest of the Department of Defense, will include:
(A) Supervising the use of DoD equipment, facilities, and personnel.
(B) Attending pertinent preproduction and production conferences, being available during rehearsals to provide technical advice, and being present during filming of all scenes pertinent to the Department of Defense.
(C) Ensuring proper selection of locations, appropriate uniforms, awards and decorations, height and weight standards, grooming standards, insignia, and set dressing applicable to the military aspects of the production. This applies to active duty members as well as paid civilian actors.
(D) Arranging for appropriate technical advisers to be present when highly specialized military technical expertise is required.
(E) Ensuring that the production adheres to the agreed-upon script and list of support to be provided.
(F) Authorizing minor deviations from the approved script or list of support to be provided, so long as such deviations are feasible, consistent with the safety standards, and in keeping with the approved story line. All other deviations shall be referred for approval to OATSD(PA) through appropriate channels.
(G) In accordance with the Production Assistance Agreement, providing notice of non-compliance, and when necessary, suspending assistance when action by the production company is contrary to stipulations governing the project and suspension is in the best interest of the Department of Defense until the matter is resolved locally or by referral to OATSD(PA).
(H) Attending the approval screening of the production, unless the Military Department concerned, OATSD(PA), and the production company mutually agree otherwise.
(I) Determining whether the production company will need to obtain the written consent of DoD personnel who may be recorded, photographed, or filmed by the production company, including when the production company uses the personally identifying information (PII) of DoD personnel. The likeness of DoD personnel in any imagery is included in the meaning of PII. If the recording or imagery captures medical treatment being performed on DoD personnel, the project officer shall require the production company to gain written consent from such DoD personnel. In the case of DoD personnel who are deceased or incapacitated, the project officer shall require the production company to gain written consent from the next of kin of the deceased or incapacitated DoD personnel.
(c)
Production company procedures
—(1)
Review of productions.
When DoD assistance has been provided to a non-documentary production, the production company must arrange for an official DoD screening in Washington, DC, or at another location agreeable to OATSD (PA), before the production is publicly exhibited. This review should be early, but at a stage in editing when changes can be accommodated, to allow the Department of Defense to confirm military sequences conform to the agreed upon script. For documentary productions, the production company will provide to the DoD project officer and the DoD designee(s) responsible for coordinating production assistance a digital videodisc (DVD) of military-themed photography and the roughly edited version of the production at a stage in editing when changes can be accommodated. In addition to confirming that the military sequences conform to the agreed upon script, treatment, or narrative, this review will also serve to preclude release or disclosure of sensitive, security-related, or classified information; and to ensure that the privacy of DoD personnel is not violated. Should DoD determine that material in the production compromises any of the preceding concerns, DoD will alert the production company of the material, and the production company will remove the material from the production.
(2)
Credit titles.
The production company will use its best efforts to place a credit in the end titles immediately above the “Special Thanks” section (if any) that states “Special Thanks to the United States Department of Defense,” with no less than one clear line above and one clear line below such
credit acknowledging the DoD assistance provided. Such acknowledgment(s) will be in keeping with industry customs and practices, and will be of the same size and font used for other similar credits in the end titles.
(3)
Requests for promotional assistance.
Pursuant to DoD Directive 5122.05, “Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512205p.pdf
), the ATSD(PA) is the final authority for military participation in public events, including participation in promotional events for entertainment media productions. The production company will forward requests for promotional assistance to OATSD(PA) in sufficient detail to permit a complete evaluation.
(4)
Publicity photos and promotional material.
The production company will provide DoD with copies of all promotional and marketing materials (
e.g.,
electronic press kits, one-sheets, and television advertisements) for internal information and historical purposes in documenting DoD assistance to the production.
(5)
Copies of completed production.
The production company will provide, in a format to be specified in the Production Assistance Agreement, copies of the completed production to DoD for briefings and for historical purposes.
(d)
Billing procedures.
Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2264 and 31 U.S.C. 9701, production companies will reimburse the Government for additional expenses incurred as a result of DoD assistance.
(1) Each installation or Military Component will provide the production company with individual statements of charges assessed for providing assets to assist in the production. Unless agreed otherwise, statements should be presented to the production company within 45 days from the last day of the month in which filming and/or photography is completed to ensure prompt and complete accounting of charges for DoD assistance.
(2) The production company will be billed for only those expenses that are considered to be additional expenses to the Government. In accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section, the assigned project officer will serve as the central coordinator for submitting statements to the producer and monitoring receipt of payment to the Government. Items for which the costs may be reimbursed to the Government include:
(i) Petroleum, oil, and lubricants for equipment used.
(ii) Depot maintenance for equipment used.
(iii) Cost incurred in diverting or moving equipment.
(iv) Lost or damaged equipment.
(v) Expendable supplies.
(vi) Travel and per diem (unless reimbursed under 31 U.S.C. 1353).
(vii) Civilian overtime.
(viii) Commercial power or other utilities for facilities kept open beyond normal duty hours or when the production company's consumption of utilities is significant, based on average usage rates.
(ix) Should the production company not comply with requested clean-up required by production, project officer will require production company to hire a cleaning company. Should the production company not provide for the necessary clean-up, it shall reimburse the Government for any additional expenses incurred by the Government in performing such clean-up.
(3) The production company will be required to reimburse the Government for all flying hours related to production assistance, including takeoffs, landings, and ferrying aircraft from military locations to filming sites, except when such missions coincide with and can be considered legitimate operational and training missions. The production company will be required to reimburse the Government for all steaming days related to production assistance, including all costs (tugs, harbor pilots and port costs) required to move ships from military locations to filming sites, except when such missions coincide with and can be considered legitimate operational and training missions. These reimbursements will be calculated at the current DoD User Rates.
(4) In cases where provision of support provides a significant benefit to DoD, the production company will not be required to reimburse the Government for military or civilian manpower (except for civilian overtime) when
such personnel are officially assigned to assist in the production. However, this limitation does not apply to Reserve Component personnel assigned in an official capacity, because such members are called to active duty at additional cost to the Government to perform the assigned mission. Reimbursement for Reserve Component personnel in an official capacity will be at composite standard pay and reimbursement rates for military personnel published annually by the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/DoD Chief Financial Officer.
(5) Normal training and operational missions that would occur regardless of DoD assistance to a particular production are not considered to be chargeable to the production company.
(6) Beyond actual operational expenses, imputed rental charges ordinarily will not be levied for use of structures or equipment.
(7) The production company will provide proof of adequate industry standard liability insurance, naming DoD as an additional insured entity prior to the commencement of production involving DoD. The production company will maintain, at its sole expense, insurance in such amounts and under such terms and conditions as may be required by DoD to protect its interests in the property involved.
Pt. 238, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 238—Sample Production Assistance Agreement
ER10AU15.000
ER10AU15.001
ER10AU15.002
ER10AU15.003
ER10AU15.004
ER10AU15.005
Pt. 238, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 238—Sample Production Assistance Agreement
ER10AU15.006
ER10AU15.007
ER10AU15.008
ER10AU15.009
ER10AU15.010
Pt. 239

# PART 239—HOMEOWNERS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM—APPLICATION PROCESSING
Sec.
239.1
Purpose.
239.2
Applicability and scope.
239.3
Policy.
239.4
Definitions.
239.5
Benefit elections.
239.6
Eligibility.
239.7
Responsibilities.
239.8
Funding.
239.9
Application processing procedures.
239.10
Management controls.
239.11
Appeals.
239.12
Tax documentation.
239.13
Program performance reviews.
239.14
On-site inspections.
239.15
List of HAP field offices.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3374, as amended by Section 1001, ARRA, Public Law 111-5.

# Source:
75 FR 69873, Nov. 16, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 239.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Continues to authorize the Homeowners Assistance Program (HAP) under Section 3374 of title 42, United States Code (U.S.C.), to assist eligible military and civilian Federal employee homeowners when the real estate market is adversely affected directly related to the closure or reduction-in-scope of operations due to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Additionally, in accordance with section 1001, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), Public Law 111-5, this part temporarily expands authority provided in section 3374, of title 42 U.S.C., to provide assistance to:
Wounded, Injured, or Ill members of the Armed Forces (30 percent or greater disability), wounded Department of Defense (DoD) and Coast Guard civilian homeowners reassigned in furtherance of medical treatment or rehabilitation or due to medical retirement in connection with their disability, surviving spouses of fallen warriors, Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) 2005 impacted homeowners relocating during the mortgage crisis, and Service member homeowners undergoing Permanent Change of Station (PCS) moves during the mortgage crisis. This authority is referred to as “Expanded HAP.”
(b) Establishes policy, authority, and responsibilities for managing Expanded HAP and defines eligibility for financial assistance.
(c) In accordance with this part, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT
L)) has overall responsibility and, through the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment (DUSD(I
E)), provides oversight for this program. The Army, acting as the DoD Executive Agent for administering the HAP, uses the Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (HQUSACE) to implement the program.
§ 239.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the U.S. Coast Guard), the Chairman of the Joints Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”). This part for Expanded HAP is applicable until September 30, 2012, or as otherwise extended by law.
§ 239.3
Policy.
It is DoD policy, in implementing section 3374 of title 42, United States Code, as amended by section 1001 of the ARRA (Pub. L. 111-5), that those eligible (
see
section 239.6 of this part) to participate in the HAP and Expanded HAP are treated fairly and receive available benefit as quickly as practicable.
§ 239.4
Definitions.
(a)
Armed Forces.
The Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard (see section 101(a) of title 10, U.S.C., as stipulated in section 1001(p) of Public Law 111-5).
(b)
Closing costs.
Sellers' closing costs typically include: loan payoff fees; the real estate commission; title insurance; all or part of transfer taxes and escrow fees, if there are any; attorney's fees where applicable; and other fees set by local custom. HAP pays sellers' closing costs that are customary for the region where the home is located. Applicant's realtor or lender can provide the applicant with the normal closing costs for his/her region. HAP will reimburse the seller for limited contributions made to the buyer's portion of closing costs, including appraisal cost and realtor fees.
(c)
Deficiency judgment.
Judicial recognition of personal liability under applicable state law against a Service member whose property was foreclosed on or who otherwise passed title to another person for a primary residence through a sale that realized less than the full outstanding mortgage balance.
(d)
Deployment.
Performing service in a training exercise or operation at a location or under circumstances that make it impossible or infeasible for the member to spend off-duty time in the housing in which the member resides when on garrison or installation duty at the member's permanent duty station, or home port, as the case may be.
(e)
Eligible mortgage.
A mortgage secured by the primary residence that was incurred to acquire or improve the primary residence. For a mortgage refinancing the original mortgage(s) or for a mortgage incurred subsequent to purchasing the property, funds from the refinanced or subsequent mortgages must be traced to the purchase of the primary residence or have been used to improve the primary residence. Home improvements that are documented (even if not financed through a subsequent mortgage or line of credit) may be added to the purchase price of the primary residence. Funds from a refinanced or subsequent mortgage that were used for other purposes are not eligible and may not be considered. Benefits will be calculated using the
amount of $729,750 for primary residences with an eligible mortgage that exceeds $729,750. The total benefit payable (excluding allowable closing costs) shall not exceed $729,750. The ARRA expanded HAP calculates PFMV as the purchase price plus improvements. Improvements are identified in the Internal Revenue Publication #523 (
http://www.irs.gov/publications/p523/ar02.html
) which outlines items considered home improvements and distinguishes improvements from repairs and maintenance.
(f)
Forward deployment.
Performing service in an area where the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary's designee has determined that Service members are subject to hostile fire or imminent danger under section 310(a)(2) of title 37, U.S.C.
(g)
Primary residence.
The one- or two-family dwelling from which employees or members regularly commute (or commuted) to their primary place of duty. Under § 239.6(a) and (b) of this part, the relevant property for which compensation might be offered must have been the primary residence of the member or civilian employee at the time of the relevant wound, injury, or illness. The first field grade officer (or civilian equivalent) in the member or employee's chain of command may certify primary residence status.
(h)
Prior Fair Market Value (PFMV).
The PFMV is the purchase price of the primary residence. Benefits will be calculated using the amount of $729,750 as the PFMV for primary residences with a PFMV that exceeds $729,750.
(i)
Purchase.
Purchase occurs when the applicant enters into a contract for the purchase of the property. In the absence of a contract for purchase, the purchase occurs when the applicant closes on the property.
(j)
Reasonable effort to sell.
Applicant's primary residence must be listed, actively marketed, and available for purchase for a minimum of 120 days. With regard to marketing, applicant must demonstrate that the asking price was within the current market value of the home as determined by the HQUSACE automated value model (AVM) for no less than 30 days. It is the applicant's responsibility to explain marketing efforts by detailing how the asking price was gradually reduced until it reached the true current fair market value (
e.g.,
maintaining a log containing date and asking price recorded over period of time indicating number of visits by prospective buyers and offers to purchase). If an applicant is unable to sell the primary residence, the HQUSACE will determine whether efforts to sell were reasonable.
(k)
Permanent Change of Station (PCS).
The assignment or transfer of a member to a different permanent duty station (PDS), to include relocation to place of retirement, when retirement is mandatory, under a competent authorization/order that does not specify the duty as temporary, provide for further assignment to a new PDS, or direct the military service member return to the old PDS.
§ 239.5
Benefit elections.
Section 3374 of title 42, U.S.C., as amended by section 1001 of the ARRA, Public Law 111-5, authorizes the Secretary of Defense, under specified conditions, to acquire title to, hold, manage, and dispose of, or, in lieu thereof, to reimburse for certain losses upon private sale of, or foreclosure against, any property improved with a one- or two-family dwelling owned by designated individuals.
(a)
General benefits.
(1) If an applicant is unable to sell the primary residence after demonstrating reasonable efforts to sell (
see
Definitions, § 239.4(i) of this part), the Government may purchase the primary residence for the greater of:
(i) The applicable percentage (identified by applicant type in § 239.5(a)(4) of this part) of the Prior Fair Market Value (PFMV) of the primary residence, or
(ii) The total amount of the eligible mortgage(s) that remains outstanding; however, the benefit payable (excluding allowable closing costs) shall not exceed $729,750.
(2) If an applicant sells, has sold, or otherwise has transferred title of the primary residence, the benefit calculation shall be the amount of closing costs plus an amount not to exceed the difference between the applicable percentage of the PFMV and the sales price.
(3) If an applicant is foreclosed upon, the benefit will pay all legally enforceable liabilities directly associated with the foreclosed mortgage (
e.g.,
a deficiency judgment).
(4)
Applicable percentages.
(i) If an applicant is eligible under § 239.6(a)(1) or (2) of this part, and sells the primary residence, the applicable percentage shall be 95 percent of the PFMV. In addition, closing costs incurred on the sale may be reimbursed.
(ii) If an applicant is eligible under § 239.6(a)(1) or (2) of this part, and is unable to sell the primary residence after demonstrating reasonable efforts to sell, the applicable percentage shall be 90 percent of the PFMV. Closing costs incurred on the sale may be reimbursed.
(iii) If an applicant is eligible under § 239.6(a)(3) or (4) of this part and sells the primary residence, the applicable percentage shall be 90 percent of the PFMV. In addition, closing costs incurred on the sale may be reimbursed.
(iv) If an applicant is eligible under § 239.6(a)(3) or (4) of this part and is unable to sell the primary residence after demonstrating reasonable efforts to sell, the applicable percentage shall be 75 percent of the PFMV. As noted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, however, the applicant may instead be eligible for payment of the eligible mortgage outstanding.
(b)
Rules applicable to all benefit calculations.
(1) Prior to making any payment, the Government must determine that title to the property has been transferred or will be transferred as the result of making such payment. If the Government determines that making a benefit payment will not result in the transfer of title to the property, no payment will be made.
(2) A short sale will be treated as a private sale. If an applicant remains personally liable for a deficiency between the outstanding mortgage and the sale price, the amount of this deficiency may be included in the benefit, provided that the total amount of the benefit does not exceed the difference between 90 percent of the PFMV and the sales price.
(c)
Payment of benefits.
(1)
Private sale:
Where a benefit payment exceeds funds required to clear the mortgage and pay closing costs, the amount exceeding the mortgage and closing costs will be paid directly to the applicant. In the case of a short sale, if an applicant remains personally liable for a deficiency between the outstanding mortgage and the sale price, that deficiency shall be paid directly to the lender on behalf of the applicant. If the applicant was fully released from liability after a short sale, no benefit shall be paid to either the applicant or lender.
(2)
Government purchase:
Benefit is paid directly to the lender in exchange for government possession of the property. Since the benefit reimburses the applicant a percentage of the applicant's purchase price, if the benefit exceeds the mortgage payoff amount, the applicant will receive a benefit payment for the difference between the mortgage payoff and the total benefit payment. If the applicant has a buyer for the home, the payment of real estate commissions when an applicant's mortgage exceeds the property's current fair market value (i.e., upside down) will be accomplished as follows:
(i) Commission will be at the normal and customary rate for the area (normally six percent) on the price agreed upon by the applicant and the buyer and to whom the Government will then sell the home. While the commission payment is the responsibility of the applicant, the Government will make the commission payment for the applicant when the home is sold by the Government to the applicant's buyer contingent upon both the Government acquisition and Government sale contract transactions being completed and recorded. Commissions will be paid to the broker listing the property. The allocation of dollars to real estate agents will be the responsibility of the listing broker.
(ii) After Government acquisition, the Government will then sell the property to the buyer found by the applicant.
(iii) No other payment of fees or commissions will be made without the prior approval of HQUSACE.
(3)
Foreclosure:
In the case of a foreclosure, benefit is paid to lien holder for legally enforceable liabilities.
(d)
Tax Implications.
26 U.S.C. 132(n) exempts Expanded HAP benefits from
Federal taxes and is not subject to withholding.
§ 239.6
Eligibility.
(a)
Eligibility by Category.
Those eligible for benefits under the Expanded HAP include the following categories of persons:
(1)
Wounded, Injured, or Ill.
(i) Members of the Armed Forces:
(A) Who receive a disability rating of 30% or more for an unfitting condition (using the Department of Veterans Affairs Schedule for Ratings Disabilities), or who are eligible for Service member's Group Life Insurance Traumatic Injury Protection Program, or whose treating physician (in a grade of at least captain in the Navy or Coast Guard or colonel in Army, Marine Corps, or Air Force) certifies that the member is likely, by a preponderance of the evidence, to receive a disability rating of 30 percent or more for an unfitting condition (using the Department of Veterans Affairs Schedule for Ratings Disabilities) for wounds, injuries, or illness incurred in the line of duty while deployed, on or after September 11, 2001, and
(B) Who are reassigned in furtherance of medical treatment or rehabilitation, or due to retirement in connection with such disability, and
(C) Who need to market the primary residence for sale due to the wound, injury, or illness. (For example, the need to be closer to a hospital or a family member caregiver or the need to find work more accommodating to the disability.)
(ii) Civilian employees of DoD or the United States Coast Guard (excluding temporary employees or contractors, but including employees of non-appropriated fund instrumentalities):
(A) Who suffer a wound, injury, or illness (not due to own misconduct), on or after September 11, 2001, in the performance of duties while forward deployed in support of the Armed Forces, whose treating physician provides written documentation that the individual, by a preponderance of the evidence, meets the criteria for a disability rating of 30 percent or more. As described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, this documentation will be certified by a physician in the grade of at least captain in the Navy or Coast Guard or colonel in Army, Marine Corps, or Air Force.
(B) Who relocate from their primary residence in furtherance of medical treatment, rehabilitation, or due to medical retirement resulting from the wound, injury, or illness, and
(C) Who need to market the primary residence for sale due to the wound, injury, or illness. (For example, the need to be closer to a hospital or a family member caregiver or the need to find work more accommodating to the disability.)
(2)
Surviving spouse.
The surviving spouse of a Service member or of a civilian employee:
(i) Whose spouse dies as the result of a wound, injury, or illness incurred in the line of duty while deployed (or forward deployed for civilian employees) on or after September 11, 2001, and
(ii) Who relocates from the member's or civilian employee's primary residence within two years of the death of spouse.
(3)
BRAC 2005 members and civilian employees.
Members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense and the United States Coast Guard (not including temporary employees or contractors) and employees of non-appropriated fund instrumentalities meeting the assignment requirements of § 239.6(b)(4)(i)(A) of this part and who have not previously received HAP benefit payments:
(i) Whose position is eliminated or transferred because of the realignment or closure; and
(ii) Who accepts employment or is required to relocate because of a transfer beyond the normal commuting distance from the primary residence (50 miles). The new residence must be within 50 miles of the new duty station.
(4)
Permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces.
Members who have not previously received HAP benefit payments and who are reassigned under permanent PCS orders:
(i) Dated between February 1, 2006, and September 30, 2012 (subject to availability of funds),
(ii) To a new duty station or home port outside a 50-mile radius of the
member's former duty station or home port.
(b)
Eligibility based on economic impact, timing, price, orders, and submission of application.
(1)
Minimum economic impact.
(i) BRAC 2005 Members and Civilian Employees as well as permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces whose primary residence have suffered at least a 10 percent personal home value loss from the date of purchase to date of sale. Market value of the home will be verified by the USACE.
(ii) Applicants qualifying as Wounded, Injured, or Ill or as surviving spouse do not need to show minimum economic impact.
(2)
Timing of purchase and sale.
(i) BRAC 2005 Members and Civilian Employees must have been the owner-occupant of their primary residence before May 13, 2005, the date of the BRAC 2005 announcement or have vacated the owned residence as a result of being ordered into on-post housing after November 13, 2004. An owner-occupant is someone who has both purchased and resides in the residence.
(ii) Permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces must have purchased their primary residence before July 1, 2006.
(iii) Wounded, injured, or ill members and employees and Surviving Spouses are eligible for compensation without respect to the date of purchase.
(iv) BRAC 2005 Members and Civilian employees and permanently reassigned members must have sold their primary residence between July 1, 2006 and September 30, 2012.
(3)
Maximum home prior fair market value and eligible mortgage.
When calculating benefits, both the PFMV and the eligible mortgage will be capped at $729,750.
(4)
Date of assignment; report date; basis for relocation.
(i)
Date of assignment, report date.
(A) BRAC 2005 Members and Civilian Employees must have been assigned to an installation or unit identified for closure or realignment under the 2005 round of the Base Realignment and Closure Act of 1990 on May 13, 2005; transferred from such an installation or unit, or employment terminated as a result of a reduction in force, after November 13, 2004; or transferred from such an installation or activity on an overseas tour after May 13, 2002. BRAC 2005 Members transferred from such an installation or activity after May 13, 2005, are also eligible if, in connection with that transfer the member was informed of a future, programmed reassignment to the installation.
(B) For initial implementation, permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces must have received qualifying orders to relocate dated between February 1, 2006, and September 30, 2010. These dates may be extended to September 30, 2012, at the discretion of the DUSD(I
E) based on availability of funds.
(ii)
Basis for relocation:
Permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces who are reassigned or who otherwise relocate for the following reasons are not eligible for Expanded HAP benefits:
(A) Members who voluntarily retire prior to reaching their mandatory retirement date.
(B) Members who are a new accession into the Armed Forces or who are otherwise entering active duty.
(C) Members who are voluntarily separated or discharged.
(D) Members whose separation or discharge is characterized as less than honorable.
(E) Members who request and receive voluntary release from active duty (REFRAD).
(F) Members who are REFRAD for misconduct or poor performance.
(c)
Applications will be processed according to eligibility category in the following order:
(1)
Wounded, injured, and ill.
Within this category, applications will generally be processed in chronological order of the wound, injury, or illness.
(2)
Surviving spouses.
Within this category, applications will generally be processed in chronological order of the date of death of the member or employee.
(3)
BRAC 2005 members and civilian employees.
Within this category, applications will generally be processed in chronological order of the date of job elimination.
(4)
Permanently reassigned members of the Armed Forces.
Within this category,
applications will generally be processed beginning with the earliest report-not-later-than date of PCS orders.
§ 239.7
Responsibilities.
(a) The DUSD(I
E), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT
L), shall, in relation to the Expanded HAP:
(1) Prescribe and monitor administrative and operational policies and procedures.
(2) Determine applicable personnel benefits and policies, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
(3) Serve as senior appeals authority for appeals submitted by applicants.
(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, in relation to the Expanded HAP:
(1) Implement policies and prescribe procedures for financial operations.
(2) Review and approve financial plans and budgets.
(3) Issue financing and obligation authorities.
(4) Administer the DoD Homeowners Assistance Fund.
(c) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Housing (DASA(I
H)), subject to review by the DUSD(I
E), as the DoD Executive Agent for administering, managing, and executing the HAP, shall:
(1) Establish detailed policies and procedures for execution of the program.
(2) Maintain necessary records, prepare reports, and conduct audits.
(3) Publish regulations and forms.
(4) Disseminate information on the program.
(5) Forward copies of completed responses to congressional inquiries and appeals to the DUSD(I
E) for information.
(6) Serve as the initial approval authority for HAP appeals. The DASA(I
H) may approve appeals and shall forward recommendations for Expanded HAP denial to the DUSD(I
E) for decision.
(d) The Heads of the DoD Components and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, by agreement of the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall:
(1) Designate at least one representative at the headquarters level to work with DASA(I
H) and HQUSACE HAP offices.
(2) Require each installation to establish a liaison with the nearest HAP field office to obtain guidance or assistance on the HAP.
(3) Supply the HQUSACE HAP office a copy of any internal regulation, instruction, or guidance published relative to the Expanded HAP program.
(4) Disseminate information on the Expanded HAP and, upon request, supply HAP field offices with data pertaining to the Expanded HAP.
(e) HQUSACE. (1)
Real Estate Community of Practice (CEMP-CR).
The Director of Real Estate, acting for the Chief of Engineers, has been delegated authority and responsibility for the execution of HAP. CEMP-CR, as the central office for HAP, is responsible for the following:
(i) Supervision, interagency coordination, development of procedures, policy guidance, and processing of appeals forwarded from the districts and HQUSACE Major Subordinate Commands (MSC).
(ii) Maintaining an Expanded HAP central office and Expanded HAP field offices.
(iii) Processing appeals from the MSC where applicant agreement cannot be reached. Such appeals will be forwarded, in turn, to DASA(I
H) for consideration.
(2)
Districts.
Districts designated by the Director of Real Estate, and their Chiefs of Real Estate, have been delegated the authority to administer, manage, and execute the HAP on behalf of all applicants. Districts (as identified in § 239.9 of this part) are responsible for the following:
(i) Accepting applications (DD Form 1607) for HAP and Expanded HAP benefits.
(ii) Determining the eligibility of each applicant for Expanded HAP assistance using the criterion established by the DUSD(I
E).
(iii) Determining and advising each applicant on the most appropriate type of assistance.
(iv) Determining amounts to be paid, consistent with DoD policy, and making payments or authorizing and arranging for acquisition or transfer of the applicant's property.
(v) Maintaining, managing, and disposing of acquired properties or contracting for such services with private contractors.
(vi) Processing all appeals, except where applicant agreement cannot be reached. Such appeal cases will be forwarded, in turn, to the MSC, CEMP-CR, and DASA(I
H) for consideration.
(3)
HQUSACE Major Subordinate Commands (MSC).
MSCs have been delegated the authority to perform oversight and review of district program management and based upon that review, or in response to specific requests, to provide local policy guidance to the districts and recommend program changes or forward appeals to CEMP-CR for consideration.
§ 239.8
Funding.
(a)
Revolving fund account.
The revolving fund account contains money appropriated in accordance with the ARRA, and receipts from the management, rental, or sale of the properties acquired.
(b)
Appropriation, receipts, and allocation.
Funds required for administration of the program will be made available by DoD to the HQUSACE. Funds provided will be used for purchase or reimbursement as provided herein and to defray expenses connected with the acquisition, management, and disposal of acquired properties, including payment of mortgages or other indebtedness, as well as the cost of staff services, contract services, Title Insurance, and other indemnities.
(c)
Obligation of funds.
For government acquisition of homes under the authority of this Rule, funds will be committed prior to the Government's offer to purchase is conveyed to the applicant. The obligation will occur upon timely receipt of the accepted offer returned by the applicant.
§ 239.9
Application processing procedures.
(a)
Acceptance of applications.
The district will accept applications (DD Form 1607) for HAP and Expanded HAP benefits submitted through the U.S. Mail or other delivery system direct to the appropriate district office.
See
§ 239.15 of this part for a list of District field offices.
(1) Applications for benefits by members of the Armed Forces due to eligibility pursuant to § 239.6(a)(4) of this part because of permanent reassignment must be submitted directly to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers field office identified in § 239.15 of this part by U.S. Mail or commercial delivery service, and must be postmarked or deposited with the commercial delivery service no later than September 30, 2012. Applications postmarked or deposited after September 30, 2012, will not be accepted.
(2) Applications of eligible personnel for benefits due to eligibility pursuant to § 239.6(a)(3) of this part because of BRAC 2005 must be submitted directly to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers field office identified in § 239.15 of this part by U.S. Mail or commercial delivery service, and must be postmarked or deposited with the commercial delivery service no later than September 30, 2012. Applications postmarked or deposited after September 30, 2012, will not be accepted.
(b)
Application Form (DD Form 1607).
Should the DD form 1607 not provide all the information required to process Expanded HAP applications, Districts must provide applicants appropriate supplemental instructions.
(c)
Assignment of application numbers.
(1)
Assignment of application numbers.
When a District receives an application, it will assign the application number and develop and maintain an individual file for each property. Applications for programs located in another District will not be assigned a number, but will be forwarded immediately to the District having jurisdiction. An application number, once assigned, will not be reassigned regardless of the disposition of the original application. Reactivation or reopening of a withdrawn application does not require a new application or application number.
(2)
Method of assignment.
An application will be numbered in the following manner:
(i)
Agency code.
Code to indicate the Federal agency accountable for installation being closed or applicant support:
(A) 1—Army
(B) 2—Air Force
(C) 3—Navy
(D) 4—Marine Corps
(E) 5—Defense Agencies
(F) 6—Non-Defense Agencies
(G) 7—U.S. Coast Guard
(ii)
District code.
(A) Sacramento: L2
(B) Savannah: K6
(C) Fort Worth: M2
(iii)
Applicant category code
(military/civilian/wounded/surviving spouse/PCS):
(A) 1 = Civilian (BRAC)
(B) 2 = Military (BRAC)
(C) 3 = Non-appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
(D) 4 = Military Wounded
(E) 5 = Civilian Wounded
(F) 6 = Surviving Spouse (military deceased)
(G) 7 = Surviving Spouse (civilian employee deceased)
(H) 8 = Military PCS
(iv)
State:
State abbreviation.
(v)
Installation number:
The five digit ZIP Code of the applicant's present (former, if they have already moved) installation, offices, or unit address. Examples are:
(A) For a BRAC 05 applicant moving from the closing Saint Louis, Missouri, DFAS office to Minneapolis, Minnesota, use the ZIP Code of the city from which he or she is moving, e.g., 63101, for St. Louis, Missouri.
(B) For wounded warrior or surviving spouse who moved from primary residence, use present installation or home town.
(C) For Service members who are eligible based on PCS criteria, use ZIP Code of installation from which they depart.
(vi)
Application Number:
Sequential beginning with 0001.

# Example 1:
2 K6 2 NH0 3 8 0 30 0 0 1
Air Force-SAS Dist.-Mil BRAC-NH-Pease AFB-Applicant #

# Example 2:
1-K 6- 4- NY-1 3 6 0 2-0 0 0 2
Army-SAS Dist-Mil Wounded-NY-Ft Drum-Applicant #
(d)
Real Estate Values.
(1) Because the PFMV is the purchase price for Expanded HAP, no appraisal of the property is required. Supporting documentation to establish purchase price must be furnished by the applicant. Generally, Form HUD-1 will suffice.
(2) Districts are responsible for ensuring primary residence values are appropriate and applicants receive deserved benefit payments. Districts will use the CoreLogic AVM to determine the valuation of individual primary residences.
[75 FR 69873, Nov. 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 39628, July 5, 2012]
§ 239.10
Management controls.
(a)
Management systems.
Headquarters, USACE has an existing information management system that manages all information related to the HAP program.
(1)
HAPMIS.
The Homeowners Assistance Program Management Information System (HAPMIS) provides program management assistance to field offices and indicators to managers at field offices, regional headquarters and HQUSACE at the Service Member level of detail. The Privacy Act applies to this program and the management information system to protect the privacy of Expanded HAP applicant information.
(2)
CEFMS.
The Corps of Engineers Financial Management System (CEFMS) provides detailed funds execution and tracking, to include:
(i) Funds issued to field offices for execution accountability.
(ii) Funds committed and obligated by applicant category, installation, state and county.
(b)
System of Records Notice (SORN).
The Privacy Act limits agencies to maintaining “only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or Executive order of the President.” 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1). The SORN for the Homeowners Assistance Program can be found at
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/army/A0405-10q_CE.shtml.
The Privacy Impact
Assessment for the system can be reviewed at:
http://www.army.mil/ciog6/privacy.html.
Individuals seeking to determine whether information about them is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Chief of Engineers, Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
Attn:
CERE-R, 441 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20314-1000.
§ 239.11
Appeals.
Applicant appeals will be processed at the district level and forwarded through HQUSACE for review. The HQUSACE may approve an appeal but must forward any recommendation for denial to the DASA(I
H) for review and consideration. DASA(I
H) may approve an appeal but must forward recommendations for denial to the DUSD(I
E) for decision. The DUSD(I
E) is the senior appeals authority for appeals submitted by applicants.
§ 239.12
Tax documentation.
For disbursed funds, tax documents (if necessary) will be certified by HQUSACE Finance Center and distributed to applicants and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) annually.
§ 239.13
Program performance reviews.
HQUSACE will prepare monthly program performance reviews using the HAPMIS; HQUSACE Annual Management Command Plan and Management Control Checklist. In addition, program monitoring will also be conducted (through HAPMIS and CEFMS reports) at the Headquarters Department of the Army and at the DUSD(I
E) levels.
§ 239.14
On-site inspections.
The HQUSACE and its major subordinate commands may conduct periodic on-site inspections of district offices and monitor program execution through HAPMIS and CEFMS reports.
§ 239.15.
List of HAP Field Offices.

# HAP FIELD OFFICE
U.S. Army Engineer District, Savannah, Corps of Engineers, Attn: CESAS-RE-HM, 100 West Oglethorpe Avenue, Savannah, Georgia 31401-3604, 1-800-861-8144, Internet Address:
http://www.sas.usace.army.mil.

# HAP CENTRAL OFFICE
Homeowners Assistance Program, HQ U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Real Estate Directorate, Military Division, 441 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20314-1000.
[77 FR 39629, July 5, 2012]
Pt. 240

# PART 240—DOD INFORMATION ASSURANCE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (IASP)
Sec.
240.1
Purpose.
240.2
Applicability.
240.3
Definitions.
240.4
Policy.
240.5
Responsibilities.
240.6
Retention program.
240.7
Recruitment program.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2200, 10 U.S.C. 7045.

# Source:
77 FR 14955, Mar. 14, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.1
Purpose.
This part implements policy, responsibilities and procedures for executing the DoD Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP).
§ 240.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”). The term “Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps.
§ 240.3
Definitions.
The following definitions are used in this part:
CAE.
A collective term that refers to both CAE/IAE and CAE-R.
CAE/IAE.
An institution of higher education that has met established criteria for IA education and has been jointly designated by the Department of Homeland Security and the NSA as a national center of excellence.
CAE-R.
An institution of higher education which has met established criteria for IA research and has been jointly designated by the Department of Homeland Security and the NSA as a national center of excellence.
IA.
For the purpose of this part, the term “IA” includes computer security, network security, cybersecurity, cyber operations, and other relevant IT related to information assurance pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200e.
IT.
For the purpose of this part, the term “IT” refers to any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. “IT” includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources.
Institution of Higher Education.
For the purpose of this part and as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1001, an “institution of higher education” refers to an educational institution in any state that:
(1) Admits as regular students only individuals who possess a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate;
(2) Is legally authorized to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(3) Provides an educational program that awards bachelor's degrees, or provides no less than a 2-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a degree;
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary of Education for the granting of preaccreditation status, and the Secretary has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.
Partner University.
A CAE that has joined in academic partnership with the NDU IRMC to award master's and doctoral degrees through the DoD IASP.
Principal Investigator.
The primary point of contact at each CAE, responsible for publicizing the DoD IASP to potential recruitment students and working with students during the application process. Principal investigators also serve as the primary contact for recruitment students and retention students who have transferred from the IRMC to a partner university.
Recruitment Program.
The portion of the DoD IASP available to qualified non-DoD students currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment at a designated CAE.
Recruitment Students.
Non-DoD students currently enrolled at a designated CAE who are active participants in the DoD IASP recruitment program.
Retention Program.
The portion of the DoD IASP available to full-time, active duty Service personnel and permanent civilian employees of the DoD Components.
Retention Students.
Full-time active duty Service personnel and permanent civilian employees of the DoD Components who are active participants in the DoD IASP retention program.
§ 240.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The Department of Defense shall recruit, develop, and retain a highly skilled cadre of professionals to support the critical IA and information technology (IT) management, technical, digital and multimedia forensics, cyber, and infrastructure protection functions required for a secure network-centric environment.
(b) The DoD IASP shall be used to attract new entrants to the DoD IA and IT workforce and to retain current IA and IT personnel necessary to support
the DoD's diverse warfighting, business, intelligence, and enterprise information infrastructure requirements.
(c) The academic disciplines, with concentrations in IA eligible for IASP support include, but are not limited to: biometrics, business management or administration, computer crime investigations, computer engineering, computer programming, computer science, computer systems analysis, cyber operations, cybersecurity, database administration, data management, digital and multimedia forensics, electrical engineering, electronics engineering, information security (assurance), information systems, mathematics, network management/operations, software engineering, and other similar disciplines as approved by DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO).
(d) Subject to availability of funds, the DoD may provide grants to institutions of higher education for faculty, curriculum, and infrastructure development and academic research to support the DoD IA/IT critical areas of interest.
§ 240.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) shall:
(1) Establish overall policy and guidance to conduct and administer the DoD IASP pursuant to Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Delegation of Authority and Assignment of Responsibility under section 922 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001,” October 30, 2000.
(2) Develop an annual budget recommendation to administer the DoD IASP and provide academic scholarships and grants in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045.
(3) Oversee program administration and execution by the Director, National Security Agency (DIRNSA).
(4) Chair the DoD IASP Steering Committee, established pursuant to DoD Instruction 5105.18, to oversee and provide program direction over:
(i) Student eligibility criteria.
(ii) Grant and capacity building selection criteria for awards to CAEs.
(iii) Final approval for the allocation of individual DoD IASP scholarships and grants.
(iv) Communications and marketing plans.
(v) DoD IASP metrics and analysis of performance results, including student and CAE/IAE feedback.
(b) The DIRNSA, under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, shall:
(1) Serve as the DoD IASP Executive Administrator to:
(i) Implement the DoD IASP and publish in writing all of the criteria, procedures, and standards required for program implementation. Responsibilities are to:
(A) Implement the scholarship application and selection procedures for recruitment and retention students.
(B) Establish procedures for recruiting students to meet service obligations through employment with a DoD Component upon graduation from their academic program.
(C) Ensure that all students' academic eligibility is maintained, service obligations are completed, and that reimbursement obligations for program disenrollment are fulfilled.
(D) Establish procedures for CAEs and employing DoD Components to report on students' progress.
(E) Maintain appropriate accounting for all funding disbursements.
(F) Execute the debt collection process on the behalf of the DoD and in accordance with Volume 5 of DoD 7000.14-R for scholarship recipients who fail to complete a period of obligated service resulting from their participation in the DoD IASP. This includes, but is not limited to, exercising the authority under 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e), consistent with the relevant provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e), to determine an amount owed and to take necessary actions to collect the amount owed, and to act upon requests for waivers, in whole or in part, when determined to be appropriate.
(ii) Subject to availability of funds, make grants on behalf of the DoD CIO to institutions of higher education to support the establishment, improvement, and administration of IA education programs pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200, 2200b, and 7045.
(A) Develop and implement the annual solicitation for proposals for grants.
(B) Coordinate the review process for grant proposals.
(C) Distribute grant funding and maintain appropriate accounting.
(D) Establish annual reporting procedures for grant recipients (CAEs) to detail the resulting accomplishments of their grant implementations.
(E) Obtain written documentation from grant recipients (CAEs) on how grant funding was utilized and the resulting accomplishments.
(2) Provide representation to the DoD IASP Steering Committee and provide briefings and reports, as required, to effect proper oversight by the DoD CIO and the DoD IASP Steering Committee.
(3) Maintain databases to support the analysis of performance results.
(c) The Chancellor of the Information Resources Management College (IRMC) of the National Defense University, under the authority, direction and control of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall:
(1) Establish partner university agreements with CAEs to provide master's and doctoral degree opportunities to current, former, and future IRMC students who are awarded retention scholarships.
(2) Maintain records of DoD IASP student enrollments and graduates and provide data to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator and the DoD CIO as required.
(3) Serve as the liaison between IRMC retention students, their follow-on partner university, and the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.
(4) Provide academic representation to the DoD IASP Steering Committee and provide briefings and reports, as required, on the IRMC portion of the DoD IASP retention program.
(d) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:
(1) Determine the requirement for DoD IASP usage as a primary vehicle to recruit and retain IA and IT personnel.
(2) Identify the office of primary responsibility for administering the DoD IASP within their DoD Component.
(3) Establish DoD Component-specific nomination, selection, and post-academic assignment criteria for DoD IASP retention students.
(i) Nominated personnel shall be high performing employees who are rated at the higher levels of the applicable performance appraisal system and demonstrate sustained quality performance with the potential for increased responsibilities. All individuals must be US citizens and be able to obtain a security clearance.
(ii) Nominations must fulfill specific personnel development requirements for both the individual nominee and the nominating organization.
(iii) Salaries of retention scholarship recipients shall be paid by the nominating DoD Component. When deemed necessary, DoD Components are responsible for personnel backfill while recipients are in school.
(iv) Payback assignments of graduated students shall provide relevant, follow-on utilization of academic credentials in accordance with DoD Component mission requirements.
(v) Retention students shall fulfill post-academic service obligations pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045. Members of the Military Services shall serve on active duty while fulfilling designated DoD Component service obligations. DoD civilian employees shall sign a continued service agreement that complies with section 2200 of title 10, United States Code, prior to commencement of their education, to continue service within the Department of Defense upon conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length of the education period. The period of obligated service is in addition to any other period for which the recipient is obligated to serve on active duty or in the civil service, as the case may be. Individuals, who fail to complete the degree program satisfactorily, or to fulfill the service commitment, shall be required to reimburse the United States pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e) for payments paid to them through the DoD IASP unless a waiver, in whole or in part, is granted by the DoD IASP Executive Administrator. Head of Components are responsible to ensure enforcement of these agreements.
(4) Determine annual billet requirements for recruitment students (the number of DoD IASP recruitment scholars who will be placed in full-time employment positions with the Component upon graduation). This is required to ensure that IASP recruitment graduates have placement upon graduation. DoD Components who identify billet requirements for recruitment students shall:
(i) Assess DoD Component skill requirements to determine skill gaps and providing the annual recruitment student requirement to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.
(ii) Participate in the selection process for recruitment students.
(iii) Coordinate and process security clearances for selected recruitment scholarship recipients.
(iv) Allocate billets for an internship period (if applicable).
(v) Assign mentors to recruitment students.
(vi) Determine post-academic billet assignments for recruitment students prior to the end of the students' academic program.
(5) Participate in the evaluation processes to assess and recommend improvements to the DoD IASP.
§ 240.6
Retention program.
(a) The DoD IASP retention program is open to qualified DoD civilian employees and Service members. Active duty military officers and permanent DoD civilian employees may apply for a master's or doctoral degree program; enlisted personnel may apply for a master's program. DoD Components may further restrict the eligibility of applicants based on Component requirements.
(b) There are three DoD academic institutions participating in the DoD IASP: the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio; the IRMC of the National Defense University (NDU) at Fort McNair in Washington, DC; and the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) in Monterey, California. Students at AFIT and NPS attend full-time programs. Participants may attend the IRMC either full or part-time to complete the first part of their required courses and then select a follow-on partner university to complete their remaining degree requirements either full or part-time. There are no part-time doctoral programs. All candidates must meet the eligibility requirements for their selected program, which are outlined in DoD IASP Academic Programs for Retention Students.
(1) Military officers and DoD civilian employees may apply to attend any one of the three DoD academic institutions.
(2) Enlisted personnel may attend AFIT or the NPS, which is authorized to enroll enlisted DoD IASP participants pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045.
(c) Students must select a degree program in one of the academic disciplines listed in § 240.4(c) and in accordance with DoD Component requirements.
(d) Scholarship funding for AFIT, IRMC, the partner universities, and NPS includes full tuition costs and required fees and books. All travel costs and necessary position back-fill for individuals selected for the program must be paid by the nominating DoD Component. Retention students shall continue to receive their military pay or civilian salary from their DoD Component throughout their course of study.
(e) DoD Component nominations are due by January 31st each year. The student nomination process is outlined in the DoD IASP Nomination Process for Retention Students.
(f) Retention students shall fulfill post-academic service obligations pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a and 7045. Service members shall serve on active duty while fulfilling designated DoD Component service obligations. DoD civilian employees shall sign a continued service agreement that complies with 10 U.S.C. 2200a, prior to commencement of their education, to continue service within the DoD upon conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length of the education period. The period of obligated service is in addition to any other period for which the recipient is obligated to serve on active duty or in the civil service, as the case may be. Individuals who fail to complete the degree program satisfactorily or to fulfill the service commitment shall be required
to reimburse the United States pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e) for payments made to them through the DoD IASP unless a waiver, in whole or in part, is granted by the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.
(g) DoD IASP retention participants are obligated to remain in good standing in their degree programs, to continue in service as civilian employees or members of the Military Services, and where applicable, to repay program costs for failure to complete the degree program satisfactorily, or to fulfill the service commitment pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045, DoD policy, and the policies of the respective DoD Component.
§ 240.7
Recruitment program.
(a) Annually, in November, the DoD IASP Executive Administrator announces a solicitation for proposal from CAEs interested in participating in the DoD IASP. Graduate students and rising junior or senior undergraduates accepted at or enrolled in one of these institutions may apply for full scholarships to complete a bachelor's, master's, or a doctoral degree, or graduate (post-baccalaureate) certificate program in one of the disciplines defined in § 240.4(c). Student application requirements are included in the solicitation proposal released by NSA.
(b) DoD Component recruitment student requirements are due to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator each year by January 31st.
(c) The student selection process occurs annually in April. The selection process is outlined in the DoD IASP Nomination Process for Recruitment Students.
(d) Recruitment students are provided scholarships, covering the full cost of tuition and selected books and fees. Students are also provided a stipend to cover room and board expenses.
(e) Recruitment students may be required to complete a student internship, depending on the length of their individual scholarship. For example, if a scholar receives a scholarship their junior year, an internship is required. If they receive the scholarship their senior year, an internship is not required. DoD Components typically use the authority granted in 5 CFR 213.3102(r) to arrange the internship.
(f) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a, all recruitment students shall sign a service agreement prior to commencement of their education and incur a service commitment, which commences after the award of the DoD IASP authorized degree on a date to be determined by the relevant DoD Component. The obligated service in DoD shall be as a civilian employee of the Department or as an active duty enlisted member or officer in one of the Military Services.
(1) Individuals selecting employment in the civil service shall incur a service obligation of 1 year of service to the DoD upon graduation for each year or partial year of scholarship they receive, in addition to an internship, if applicable. Pursuant to the authority granted in 10 U.S.C. 2200a(g) and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, “Implementation Authority to Employ Individuals Completing Department of Defense Scholarship or Fellow Programs,” April 5, 2010. DoD Components may appoint DoD IASP graduates to IT positions as members of the excepted service. Upon satisfactory completion of 2 years of substantially continuous service, DoD Components may then convert these individuals to career or career-conditional appointments without competition.
(2) Individuals enlisting or accepting a commission to serve on active duty in one of the Military Services shall incur a service obligation of a minimum of 4 years on active duty in that Service upon graduation. The Military Services may establish a service obligation longer than 4 years, depending on the occupational specialty and type of enlistment or commissioning program selected.
(g) Individuals in the recruitment program who fail to complete the degree program satisfactorily or to fulfill the service commitment upon graduation shall be required to reimburse the United States pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e) for payments made to them through the DoD IASP unless a waiver, in whole or in part, is granted by the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.
Pt. 241

# PART 241—PILOT PROGRAM FOR TEMPORARY EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PERSONNEL
Sec.
241.1
Purpose.
241.2
Definitions.
241.3
Assignment authority.
241.4
Eligibility.
241.5
Written agreements.
241.6
Length of detail.
241.7
Termination.
241.8
Terms and conditions.
241.9
Costs and reimbursements.
241.10
Small business considerations.
241.11
Numerical limitation.
241.12
Reporting requirements.
241.13
Implementation.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 111-84, sec. 1110, as amended.

# Source:
77 FR 36917, June 20, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.1
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to implement section 1110 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub. L. 111-84), which authorizes DoD to implement a Pilot Program for the Temporary Exchange of Information Technology (IT) Personnel. This statute authorizes the temporary assignment of DoD IT employees to private sector organizations. This statute also gives DoD the authority to accept private sector IT employees assigned under the Pilot. This program is referred to as the Information Technology Exchange Program (ITEP) pilot.
(b) DoD Component authorized approving official may approve assignments as a mechanism for improving the DoD workforce's competency in using IT to deliver government information and services. DoD Component authorized approving official may not make assignments under this part to circumvent personnel ceilings, or as a substitute for other more appropriate personnel decisions or actions. Approved assignments must meet the strategic program goals of the DoD Components. The benefits to the DoD Components and the private sector organizations are the primary considerations in initiating assignments; not the desires or personal needs of an individual employee.
§ 241.2
Definitions.
In this part:
Detail
means the assignment of a DoD employee to a private sector organization without a change of position; or the assignment of a private sector employee to a DoD Component without a change of position.
DoD employee
means a Federal civilian employee of the DoD.
Exceptional employee
means performance meets or exceeds all standards established at the fully successful level or above and makes significant contributions towards achieving the organizational goals. Participating organizations should target highly motivated, disciplined employees.
Information technology (IT)
as defined means use of computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. IT includes the planning, organizing, staffing, directing, integrating, or controlling of information technology, including occupational specialty areas such as systems administration, IT project management, network services, operating systems, software application, cyber security, enterprise architecture, policy and planning, internet/web services, customer support, data management and systems analysis.
Private sector organization
means nonpublic or commercial individuals and businesses, nonprofit organizations, academia, scholastic institutions, and nongovernmental organizations.
Small business concern
means a business concern that satisfies the definitions and standards by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) as defined by 5 U.S.C. 3703(e)(2)(A).
§ 241.3
Assignment authority.
The Secretary of Defense may with the agreement, of the private sector organization concerned, arrange for the temporary assignment of a DoD employee to a private sector organization or accept a private sector employee
from a private sector organization to a DoD Component.
§ 241.4
Eligibility.
(a) To be eligible for an ITEP detail, a DoD or private sector employee must:
(1) Work in the field of IT;
(2) Be equivalent at the GS-11 level or above
(3) Be considered an exceptional employee, meet or exceed successful performance levels and makes significant contributions towards achieving organizational goals;
(4) Be expected to assume increased IT responsibilities in the future;
(5) Be currently employed by an organization interested in participating in the ITEP pilot; and
(6) Obtain supervisor and company approval before an employee can participate in an ITEP detail.
(b) In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the DoD employee must be serving under a career or career-conditional appointment or an appointment of equivalent tenure in the excepted service.
(c) The private sector employee must meet citizenship requirements for Federal employment in accordance with 5 CFR 7.3 and 338.101, as well as any other statutory requirements. When a position requires a security clearance, the person must possess, or be able to obtain an appropriate security clearance.
(d) Proposed assignment meets applicable requirements of section 209(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002.
§ 241.5
Written agreements.
(a) Before a detail begins, the DoD Component authorized approving official, private sector organization authorized approving official and the employee to be assigned to the ITEP detail must sign a three-party agreement. Prior to the agreement being signed the relevant legal office for the DoD Component shall review and approve the agreement. The agreement must include, but is not limited to the following elements:
(1) The duties to be performed and length of detail;
(2) Describe the core IT competencies and technical skills that the detailee will be expected to enhance or acquire;
(3) Identification of the supervisor of detailee.
(b) The agreement shall require DoD employees, upon completion of the assignment serve in the civil service for a period equal to the length of the detail; and
(c) Provide that if the employee of the DoD or of the private sector organization (as the case may be) fails to carry out the agreement, such employee shall be liable to the United States for payment of all expenses of the assignment, unless that failure was for good and sufficient reason as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
§ 241.6
Length of details.
(a) A detail shall be for a period of not less than 3 months and not more than 1 year, and may be extended in 3-month increments for a total of not more than 1 additional year by DoD Components and private sector organizations authorized approving officials.
(b) This extension may be granted in 3-month increments not to exceed 1 year. No assignment may commence after September 30, 2018.
[77 FR 36917, June 20, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 27488, May 14, 2014]
§ 241.7
Termination.
An assignment may, at any time and for any reason be terminated by the DoD or the private sector organization concerned.
§ 241.8
Terms and conditions.
(a) A DoD employee assigned under this part:
(1) Remains a Federal employee without loss of employee rights and benefits attached to that status. These include, but are not limited to:
(i) Consideration for promotion;
(ii) Leave accrual;
(iii) Continuation of retirement benefits and health, life, and long-term care insurance benefits; and
(iv) Pay increases the employee otherwise would have received if he or she had not been assigned;
(2) Remains covered for purposes of the Federal Tort Claims Act, and for
purposes of injury compensation as described in 5 U.S.C. chapter 81; and
(3) Is subject to any action that may impact the employee's position while he or she is assigned.
(b) An employee of a private sector organization:
(1) May continue to receive pay and benefits from the private sector organization from which such employee is assigned;
(2) Is deemed to be an employee of the DoD for the purposes of:
(i) Chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code (Suitability, Security, and Conduct);
(ii) Sections 201 (Bribery of Public Officials and Witnesses), 203 (Compensation to Members of Congress, Officers and Employees Against and Other Matters Affecting the Government), 205 (Activities of Officers and Employees in Claims Against Other Matters Affecting the Government), 207 (Restrictions on Former Officers, Employees, and Elected Officials of the Executive and Legislative Branches), 208 (Acts Affecting a Personal Financial Interest), 209 (Salary of Government Officials and Employees Payable only by the United States), 603 (Making Political Contributions), 606 (Intimidation to Secure Political Contributions), 607, (Place of Solicitation), 643 (Accounting Generally for Public Money), 654 (Officer or Employee of the United States Converting Property of Another, 1905 (Disclosure of Confidential Information Generally), and 1913 (Lobbying with Appropriated Moneys) of title 18, United States Code;
(iii) Sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31, United States Code;
(iv) The Federal Tort Claims Act and any other Federal tort liability statute;
(v) The Ethics in Government Act of 1978;
(vi) Section 1043 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(vii) Section 27 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; and
(3) May not have access to any trade secrets or to any other nonpublic information which is of commercial value to the private sector organization from which he or she is assigned;
(4) Is subject to such regulations as the President may prescribe;
(5) Is covered by 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, Compensation for Work Injuries; and
(6) Does not have any right or expectation for Federal employment solely on the basis of his or her assignment.
§ 241.9
Costs and reimbursements.
(a)
Payment of Salary and Allowances.
The lending organization (DoD or private sector organization) has full responsibility for payment of all salary and allowances to their employee participating in an ITEP pilot. Both DoD and private sector employees participating in the ITEP pilot are entitled to all benefits afforded to similar employees of their respective lending organizations, including medical care, according to subscribed plans and Worker's Compensation for injuries sustained in the line of duty.
(b)
Business Training and Travel Expenses.
The engaging organization (recipient of the ITEP pilot participant) may pay for any business training and travel expenses incurred by the employee while participating in the ITEP pilot.
(c)
Prohibition.
A private sector organization may not charge the DoD or any agency of the Federal Government, as direct or indirect costs under a Federal contract, for the costs of pay or benefits paid by that organization to an employee assigned to a DoD Component.
§ 241.10
Small business consideration.
The DoD CIO on behalf of the Secretary of Defense shall:
(a) Ensure that, of the assignments made each year, at least 20 percent are from small business concerns (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 3703(e)(2)(A)).
(b) Take into consideration the questions of how assignments might be used to help meet the needs of the DoD with respect to the training of employees in IT.
§ 241.11
Numerical limitation.
The ITEP Pilot is an opportunity for the exchange of knowledge, experience and skills between DoD and the private sector. The DoD has the flexibility to send their employees to the private sector or receive private sector employees, or participate in a one-for-one exchange. In no event may more than
10 employees participate in assignments under this section at any given time.
§ 241.12
Reporting requirements.
(a) For each of fiscal years 2010 through 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall submit annual reports to the congressional defense committees, not later than 1 month after the end of the fiscal year involved, a report on any activities carried out during such fiscal year, including the following information:
(1) Respective organizations to and from which an employee is assigned;
(2) Positions those employees held while they were so assigned;
(3) Description of the tasks they performed while they were so assigned; and
(4) Discussion of any actions that might be taken to improve the effectiveness of the Pilot program, including any proposed changes in the law.
(b) These reports will be prepared and submitted by DoD CIO in coordination with DoD Components participating in the Pilot, to the appropriate congressional committees.
[77 FR 36917, June 20, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 27488, May 14, 2014]
§ 241.13
Implementation.
The DoD CIO is responsible for administering, coordinating and implementing the Pilot Program for the Temporary Exchange of Information Personnel, referred to as the Information Technology Exchange Program (ITEP) pilot. The DoD CIO will coordinate with DoD Components.
Pt. 243

# PART 243—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RATEMAKING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RESERVE AIR FLEET CONTRACTS
Sec.
243.1
Purpose.
243.2
Applicability.
243.3
Definitions.
243.4
Ratemaking procedures for Civil Reserve Air Fleet contracts.
243.5
Commitment of aircraft as a business factor.
243.6
Exclusions from the uniform negotiated rate.
243.7
Inapplicable provisions of law.
243.8
Application of FAR cost principles.
243.9
Carrier site visits.
243.10
Disputes.
243.11
Appeals of USTRANSCOM Contracting Officer Decisions regarding rates.
243.12
Required records retention.

# Authority:
Section 366 National Defense Authorization Act for FY12 (Pub. L. 112-81)
10 U.S.C. Chap 931, Section 9511a.

# Source:
80 FR 30358, May 28, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 243.1
Purpose.
The Secretary of Defense (Secretary) is required to determine a fair and reasonable rate of payment for airlift services provided to the Department of Defense (DoD) by civil air carriers and operators (hereinafter collectively referred to as “air carriers”) who are participants in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (CRAF). This regulation provides the authority and methodology for such ratemaking and designates the United Stated Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) as the rate setter for negotiated uniform rates for DoD airlift service contracts in support of the CRAF. This methodology supports a viable CRAF mobilization base that ensures sufficient capacity in time of war, contingency and humanitarian relief efforts.
§ 243.2
Applicability.
This section governs all contracts with the Department of Defense where awards to the air carriers, either through individual contracts or teaming arrangements, are commensurate with the relative amount of airlift capability committed to the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF).
§ 243.3
Definitions.
Air carrier.
“Air carrier” is defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2) as “a citizen of the United States undertaking by any means, directly or indirectly, to provide air transportation.” Specifically to this ratemaking procedure, individuals or entities that operate commercial fixed and rotary wing aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR chapter I) or equivalent regulations issued by a country's Civil Aviation Authority
(CAA) and which provide air transportation services are included. Commercial air carriers under contract with, or operating on behalf of, the DoD shall have a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or CAA certificate. The policy contained in this directive applies only to air carriers operating fixed wing aircraft under CRAF international airlift services.
Aircraft class.
Distinct categories of aircraft with similar broad characteristics established for ratemaking purposes. These categories include aircraft such as large passenger, medium passenger, large cargo, etc. They are determined by USTRANSCOM and identified in Published Uniform Rates and Rules for International Service Appendix A (Published in FedBizOps).
Civil Reserve Air Fleet International Airlift Services.
Those services provided in support of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet contract, whereby contractors provide personnel, training, supervision, equipment, facilities, supplies and any items and services necessary to perform international long-range and short-range airlift services during peacetime and during CRAF activation in support of the Department of Defense (DoD). Implements the Fly CRAF Act. See 49 U.S.C. 41106.
Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Assured Business Guarantees. See
10 U.S.C. 9515.
Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Program.
The Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) is a wartime readiness program, based on the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, (50 U.S.C. App. 2601
et seq.
), and Executive Order 13603 (National Defense Resource Preparedness), March 16, 2012, to ensure quantifiable, accessible, and reliable commercial airlift capability to augment DoD airlift and to assure a mobilization base of aircraft available to the Department of Defense for use in the event of any level of national emergency or defense-orientated situations. As a readiness program, CRAF quantifies the number of passenger and cargo commercial assets required to support various levels of wartime requirements and thus allows DoD to account for their use when developing and executing contingency operations/war plans. The CRAF is composed of U.S. registered aircraft owned or controlled by U.S. air carriers specifically allocated (by FAA registration number) for this purpose by the Department of Transportation. As used herein, CRAF aircraft are those allocated aircraft, which the carrier owning or otherwise controlling them, has contractually committed to the DoD, under stated conditions, to meet varying emergency needs for civil airlift augmentation of the military airlift capability. The contractual commitment of the aircraft includes the supporting resources required to provide the contract airlift. In return for a commitment to the CRAF program, airlines are afforded access to day-to-day business under various DoD contracts.
Historical Costs.
Those allowable costs for airlift services for a 12 month period, gathered from Department of Transportation (DOT) Uniform System of Accounts and Reports (USAR) (hereinafter referred to as “Form 41”) reporting (required by 14 CFR parts 217 and 241).
Long-range aircraft.
Aircraft equipped with navigation, communication, and life support systems/emergency equipment required to operate in trans-oceanic airspace, and on international routes, for a minimum distance of 3,500 nautical miles, while carrying a productive payload (75 percent of the maximum payload it is capable of carrying.) Additionally aircraft must be equipped and able to operate worldwide (e.g., in EUROCONTROL and North Atlantic Minimum Navigation Performance Specification airspace and possess the applicable VHF, Mode-S, RNP, and RVSM communication and navigation capabilities.)
Memorandum of Understanding with attachment (MOU).
A written agreement between certificated air carriers willing to participate in the CRAF program and USTRANSCOM with the purpose of establishing guidelines to facilitate establishment of rates for airlift services (e.g., passenger, cargo, combi, and aeromedical evacuation.)
Operational data.
Those statistics that are gathered from DOT Form 41 reporting, USTRANSCOM reported monthly round trip (S-1) and one-way (S-2) mileage reports, monthly fuel reports or other data deemed necessary
by the USTRANSCOM contracting officer.
Participating carriers.
Any properly certified and DoD approved air carrier in the CRAF program which complies with the conditions of the MOU and executes a USTRANSCOM contract.
Projected rates.
The estimated rates proposed by carriers based upon historical cost and operational data as further described in § 243.4(a) through (g).
Ratemaking methodologies.
The methodologies agreed to by USTRANSCOM and air carriers in the MOU for the treatment of certain cost elements to determine the estimated price for the DoD for airlift services.
Short-range aircraft.
Aircraft equipped for extended over-water operations and capable of flying a minimum distance of 1,500 nautical miles while carrying a productive payload (75 percent of the maximum payload it is capable of carrying).
§ 243.4
Ratemaking procedures for Civil Reserve Air Fleet contracts.
The ratemaking procedures contained within this section apply only to Airlift Service contracts awarded based on CRAF commitment. Competitively awarded contracts may be used by the Department of Defense when it considers such contracts to be in the best interest of the government. See §§ 243.5(b) and 243.6 for exclusions to ratemaking.
(a)
Rates of payment for airlift services.
USTRANSCOM may utilize the principles contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), as supplemented, in establishing fair and reasonable rate of payments for airlift service contracts in support of CRAF. Specific exceptions to FAR are noted in § 243.8 of this rule. To facilitate uniformity within the ratemaking process, USTRANSCOM will execute a MOU with air carriers to institute the basis for methods upon which the rates will be established. An updated MOU will be executed as warranted and published for public comment on FedBizOps. Under the MOU, air carriers agree to furnish historical cost and operational data, as well as their projected rates for the ensuing fiscal year. USTRANSCOM will conduct a review of air carriers' historical and projected costs and negotiate with the carriers to establish rates using ratemaking methodologies contained in the attachment to the MOU.
(b)
Obtaining data from participating carriers.
USTRANSCOM will annually notify those participating carriers to provide data using the USTRANSCOM cost package and related instructions. The data provided includes pricing data, cost data, and judgmental information necessary for the USTRANSCOM contracting officer to determine a fair and reasonable price or to determine cost realism. Carriers will be provided 60 calendar days to act upon the request.
(c)
Analysis.
(1) USTRANSCOM will consider carrier reported DOT Form 41 costs as well as other applicable costs directly assigned to performance in USTRANSCOM service. These costs will be reviewed and analyzed by USTRANSCOM for allowability, allocability, and reasonableness. Costs may also be audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), as necessary, in accordance with the DCAA Contract Audit Manual 7640.01.
(2) To determine allocation of these costs to USTRANSCOM service, USTRANSCOM considers carrier reported DOT Form 41 operational data, as well as USTRANSCOM S-1, S-2 mileage reports, fuel reports, and other relevant information requested by the contracting officer.
(d)
Rates.
Rates will be determined by aircraft class (e.g., large passenger, medium passenger, large cargo, etc.) based on the average efficiency of all participating carriers within the specified class. Application of these rates, under varying conditions (e.g., ferry, one-way, etc), are addressed in the Final Rates published in accordance with § 243.4(h).
(e)
Components of the rate
—(1)
Return on Investment (ROI).
ROI for USTRANSCOM service is intended to adequately compensate carriers for cost of capital. USTRANSCOM will apply a minimum return applied to the carrier's total operating costs. If a full return on investment applied to a carrier's capital investment base is provided in the MOU, the carrier will receive whichever is greater.
(i)
Full ROI.
The full ROI will be computed using an optimal capital structure of 45 percent debt and 55 percent equity. The cost-of-debt and cost-of-equity are calculated from revenues of major carriers as reported to the Department of Transportation.
(A)
Cost-of-Debt (COD).
COD will be calculated considering the Risk Free Rate (RFR) plus the weighted debt spread, with the formula as agreed upon in the MOU.
(B)
Cost-of-Equity (COE).
COE will be determined by a formula agreed upon in the MOU, which considers RFR, weighted betas, annualized equity risk premium and a future expected return premium.
(C)
Owned/Capital/Long-Term Leased Aircraft.
New airframes and related support parts will receive full ROI on the net book value of equipment at mid-point of forecast year. USTRANSCOM will apply the economic service life standards to aircraft as indicated in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(D)
Short-term leased aircraft.
As a return on annual lease payments, short-term leased equipment will receive the Full ROI less the cost of money rate per the Secretary of the Treasury under Public Law 92-41 (85 Stat. 97), as provided by the Office of Management and Budget, in accordance with the MOU.
(E)
Working capital.
Working capital will be provided in the investment base at an established number of days provided in the MOU. The investment base will be computed on total operating cash less non cash expenses (depreciation) as calculated by USTRANSCOM.
(ii)
Minimum Return.
USTRANSCOM will determine minimum return utilizing the Weighted Guidelines methodology as set forth in DFARS Subpart 215.4, Contract Pricing, or successor and as provided in the MOU.
(2)
Depreciation.
USTRANSCOM will apply economic life standards for new aircraft at 14 years, 2 percent residual (narrowbody) and 16 years and 10 percent residual (widebody) aircraft. USTRANSCOM will apply economic life standards for used aircraft as indicated in the MOU.
(3)
Utilization.
Utilization considers the number of airborne hours flown per aircraft per day. USTRANSCOM will calculate aircraft utilization in accordance with the DOT Form 41 reporting and the MOU.
(4)
Cost escalation.
Escalation is the percentage increase or decrease applied to the historical base year costs to reliably estimate the cost of performance in the contract period. Yearly cost escalation will be calculated in accordance with the MOU.
(5)
Weighting of rate.
Rates will be weighted based upon the direct relationship between contract performance and cost incurred in execution of the contract. The specific weighting will be as defined in the MOU.
(6)
Obtaining data from participating carriers.
Carriers participating in USTRANSCOM acquisitions subject to ratemaking shall provide, other than certified cost and pricing data for USTRANSCOM, rate reviews as required in the MOU.
(f)
Contingency rate.
Authority is reserved to the Commander, USTRANSCOM, at his discretion, during conditions such as outbreak of war, armed conflict, insurrection, civil or military strife, emergency, or similar conditions, to use a temporary contingency rate in order to ensure mission accomplishment. Any such temporary rate would terminate at the Commander's discretion upon his determination that such rate is no longer needed.
(g)
Proposed rate.
Once the data is analyzed and audit findings considered, USTRANSCOM will prepare a package setting forth proposed airlift rates and supporting data. The proposed rates will be approved by the USTRANSCOM contracting officer and posted publicly on FedBizOps for comment. The comment period will be as specified in the proposed rate package.
(h)
Final rate.
Upon closing of the comment period, comments and supporting rationale will be addressed and individual negotiations conducted between USTRANSCOM and the air carriers. After negotiations have concluded, USTRANSCOM will prepare a rate package setting forth final airlift rates for each aircraft class, along with
supporting data consisting of individual carrier cost elements. Comments and disposition of those comments will be included in the final rate package. The final rates will be approved by the USTRANSCOM contracting officer and publicly posted on FedBizOps for use in the ensuing contract.
§ 243.5
Commitment of aircraft as a business factor.
For the purpose of rate making, the average fleet cost of aircraft proposed by the carriers for the forecast year is used. Actual awards to CRAF carriers are based upon the aircraft accepted into the CRAF program. The Secretary may, in determining the quantity of business to be received under an airlift services contract for which the rate of payment is determined in accordance with subsection (a) of 10 U.S.C. 9511a, use as a factor the relative amount of airlift capability committed by each air carrier to the CRAF.
(a)
Adjustments in commitment to target specific needs of the contract period.
The amount of business awarded in return for commitment to the program under a CRAF contract may be adjusted prior to the award of the contract to reflect increased importance of identified aircraft categories (e.g., Aeromedical Evacuation) or performance factors (e.g., flyer's bonus, superior on-time performers, etc.). These adjustments will be identified in the solicitation.
(b)
Exclusions of categories of business from commitment based awards.
Where adequate competition is available and USTRANSCOM determines some part of the business is more appropriate for award under competitive procedures, the rate-making will not apply. Changes to areas of business will be reflected in the solicitation.
§ 243.6
Exclusions from the uniform negotiated rate.
Domestic CRAF is handled differently than international CRAF in that aircraft committed does not factor into the amount of business awarded during peacetime. If domestic CRAF is activated, carriers will be paid in accordance with pre-negotiated prices that have been determined fair and reasonable, not a uniform rate.
§ 243.7
Inapplicable provisions of law.
An airlift services contract for which the rate of payment is determined in accordance with subsection (a) of 10 U.S.C. 9511a shall not be subject to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2306a, or to the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of 41 U.S.C. 1502. Specifically, contracts establishing rates for services provided by air carriers who are participants in the CRAF program are not subject to the cost or pricing data provision of the Truth in Negotiations Act (10 U.S.C. 2306a) or the Cost Accounting Standards (41 U.S.C. 1502). CRAF carriers will, however, continue to submit data in accordance with the MOU and the DOT, Form 41.
§ 243.8
Application of FAR cost principles.
In establishing fair and reasonable rate of payments for airlift service contracts in support of CRAF, USTRANSCOM, in accordance with10 U.S.C. 9511a, procedures differ from the following provisions of FAR Part 31 and DFARS Part 231, as supplemented:
FAR 31.202, Direct Costs
FAR 31.203, Indirect Costs
FAR 31.205-6, Compensation for Personal Services, subparagraphs (g), (j), and (k)
FAR 31.205-10, Cost of Money
FAR 31.205-11, Depreciation
FAR 31.205-18, Independent Research and Development and Bid and Proposal Costs
FAR 31.205-19, Insurance and Indemnification
FAR 31.205-26, Material Costs
FAR 31.205-40, Special Tooling and Special Test Equipment Costs
FAR 31.205-41, Taxes
DFARS 231.205-18, Independent research and development and bid and proposal costs
§ 243.9
Carrier site visits.
USTRANSCOM may participate in carrier site visits, as required to determine the reasonableness or verification of cost and pricing data.
§ 243.10
Disputes.
Carriers should first address concerns to the ratemaking team for resolution. Ratemaking issues that are not resolved to the carrier's satisfaction through discussions with the ratemaking team may be directed to the USTRANSCOM contracting officer.
§ 243.11
Appeals of USTRANSCOM Contracting Officer Decisions regarding rates.
If resolution of ratemaking issues cannot be made by the USTRANSCOM contracting officer, concerned parties shall contact the USTRANSCOM Ombudsman appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of such concerns. In the event a ratemaking issue is not resolved through the ombudsman process, the carrier may request a final agency decision from the Director of Acquisition, USTRANSCOM.
§ 243.12
Required records retention.
The air carrier is required to retain copies of data submitted to support rate determination for a period identified in Subpart 4.7 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Contractor Records Retention.
Pt. 245

# PART 245—PLAN FOR THE EMERGENCY SECURITY CONTROL OF AIR TRAFFIC (ESCAT)
Sec.

# Subpart A—General
245.1
Purpose.
245.2
Applicability.
245.3
Responsibilities.

# Subpart B—Explanation of Terms, Acronyms and Abbreviations
245.5
Terms.
245.6
Abbreviations and acronyms.

# Subpart C—The ESCAT Plan
245.8
Purpose.
245.9
Authority.
245.10
Scope.
245.11
General description of the ESCAT plan.
245.12
Amplifying instructions.
245.13
Responsibilities.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Implementation of ESCAT
245.15
Appropriate military authority.
245.16
ATCSCC.
245.17
U.S. civil and military air traffic control facilities.
245.18
Transportation security operations center (TSOC).

# Subpart E—ESCAT Air Traffic Priority List (EATPL)
245.20
Purpose.
245.21
ESCAT air traffic priority list.
245.22
Policy for application of EATPL.

# Subpart F—Procedure for Movement of Air Traffic Under ESCAT
245.24
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number 1 or 2.
245.25
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number other than 1 or 2.
245.26
Aircraft being recovered.
245.27
Data entry.

# Subpart G—Test Procedures
245.29
Purpose.
245.30
ESCAT test procedures restrictions.
245.31
ESCAT test.

# Subpart H—Authentication
245.33
Approval.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552.

# Source:
71 FR 61889, Oct. 20, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 245.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Is authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 301, 552, Executive Order 12656 (“Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities”, November 18, 1988), as amended.
(b) Defines the jointly developed and agreed upon responsibilities of the Department of Transportation/Federal Aviation Administration (DOT/FAA), Department of Homeland Security/Transportation Security Administration (DHS/TSA), and Department of Defense (DoD) authorities for the security control of civil and military air traffic. It implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for implementation and performance of the ESCAT Plan. The Emergency Security Control of Air Traffic (ESCAT) is an emergency preparedness plan that prescribes the joint action to be taken by appropriate elements of the DoD, the DOT and the DHS in the interests of national security to control air traffic under emergency conditions.
§ 245.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the DOT, the FAA, the DHS, and the TSA.
§ 245.3
Responsibilities.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration will ensure the responsibilities of the DoD are implemented. The DOT and the DHS shall implement the procedures and actions requested by the Department of Defense.

# Subpart B—Explanation of Terms, Acronyms and Abbreviations
§ 245.5
Terms.
For the purpose of this part, the words “will” and “shall” denote mandatory action by the affected person(s) or agency(ies).
Air control measures.
Airspace and/or flight restrictions that may be issued in support of National Defense or Homeland Security initiatives.
Air defense.
All defensive measures designed to destroy attacking enemy aircraft or missiles as well as enemy operated aircraft or missiles in the Earth's envelope of atmosphere, or to nullify or reduce the effectiveness of such attack.
Air defense area
(ADA). Airspace of defined dimensions designated by the appropriate agency within which the ready control of airborne vehicles is required in the interest of national security.
Air defense emergency
(ADE). An emergency condition, declared by the appropriate military authority, that exists when attack upon the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, other U.S. territories and possessions or Canada by hostile aircraft or missiles is considered probable, is imminent, or is taking place.
Air defense identification zone
(ADIZ). Airspace of defined dimensions within which the ready identification, location, and control of airborne vehicles are required.
Air defense liaison officer
(ADLO). FAA representative at a North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) air defense facility (NORAD Region or NORAD Air Defense Sector).
Air defense region.
A geographical subdivision of an air defense area.
Air defense sector.
A geographical subdivision of an air defense region.
Air traffic control system command center
(ATCSCC). FAA Command Center responsible for the efficient operation of the National Airspace System, ensuring safe and efficient air travel within the United States.
Anchor annex flight.
Classified DoD mission.
Appropriate military authority.
The military commander with the authority to direct the implementation of this part. The appropriate military authorities are designated in part 245.11, (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) and (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3).
Chief of the Defense Staff
(CDS). Canada's counterpart to the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Civil reserve air fleet
(CRAF). Those aircraft allocated, or identified for allocation, to the DoD under section 101 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2071), or made available (or agreed to be made available) for use by the DoD under a contract made under this title, as part of the program developed by the DoD through which the DoD augments its airlift capability by use of civil aircraft.
Combatant Command.
A command with a broad continuing mission under a single commander established and so designated by the President, through the Secretary of Defense and with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Combatant Commands typically have geographic or functional responsibilities. For the purposes of this part, the term “combatant command” also includes NORAD.
Continental United States
(CONUS). All U.S. territory of the 48 contiguous states (does not include Alaska and Hawaii), including the adjacent territorial waters within 12 miles of the coast of the 48 contiguous states.
Contingency operations.
A military operation that:
(1) Is designated by the Secretary of Defense as an operation in which members of the armed forces are or may become involved in military actions, operations, or hostilities against an enemy of the United States or against an opposing military force; or
(2) Results in the call or order to, or retention on, active duty of members of the uniformed services under section 688, 12301 (a), 12302, 12304, 12305, or 12406 of title 10 U.S.C., chapter 15, as amended by E.O. 13286, February 28 2003, or any other provision of law during a war or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
Defense emergency.
An emergency condition that exists when:
(1) A major attack is made upon U.S. forces overseas or on allied forces in any theater and is confirmed by either the commander of a command established by the Secretary of Defense or higher authority; or
(2) An overt attack of any type is made upon the United States and is confirmed either by the commander of a command established by the Secretary of Defense or higher authority.
Dispersal.
Relocation of forces for the purpose of increasing survivability.
Diversion.
A change made in a prescribed route or destination for operational or tactical reasons.
Domestic event network
(DEN). A 24/7 FAA sponsored, telephonic conference call network that includes all of the Air Route Traffic Control Centers (ARTCC) in the U.S. It also includes various other governmental agencies that monitor the DEN. The purpose of the DEN is to provide timely notification to the appropriate authorities that there is an emerging air-related problem or incident within the CONUS.
ESCAT air traffic priority list
(EATPL). A list comprised of eight priorities designed to control the volume of air traffic when ESCAT has been implemented.
National Airspace System
(NAS). The NAS consists of the overall environment for the safe operation of aircraft that are subject to the FAA's jurisdiction. It includes: air navigation facilities, equipment and services, airports or landing areas; aeronautical charts, information and services; rules, regulations and procedures, technical information, and manpower and material. Included are system components used by the DoD.
National emergency.
A condition declared by the President or the Congress by virtue of powers previously vested in them that authorize certain emergency actions to be undertaken in the national interest. Actions to be taken may include partial, full, or total mobilization of national resources.
Navigational aids
(NAVAIDs). Aids to navigation, including but are not limited to, Global Positioning System (GPS), Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN), VHF Omnidirectional range (VOR), VHF Omnidirectional range/Tactical Air Navigation (VORTAC), Radar, and Long Range Navigation (LORAN). GPS also includes its Federal government-provided augmentations,
i.e.,
the FAA Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) and Local Area Augmentation System (LAAS), United States Coast Guard (USCG) Maritime Differential GPS (MDGPS) and USCG Nationwide Differential GPS (NDGPS).
North American Aerospace Defense Command
(NORAD). A combined military command established by the Governments of Canada and the United States responsible for North American aerospace warning and control. Headquartered in Colorado Springs, CO, NORAD is subdivided into three geographic regions: Alaska NORAD Region (ANR), Canadian NORAD Region (CANR) and the CONUS NORAD Region (CONR).
Security assurance check.
Measures taken by DoD/DHS, as appropriate, to ensure aircraft, cargo and crew security has not been compromised by hostile organizations or individuals who are or may be engaged in espionage, sabotage, subversion, terrorism or other criminal activities.
Security control authorization
(SCA). Authorization for an EATPL category eight aircraft to take off when ESCAT has been implemented, which will be coordinated between DHS and the appropriate military authority.
Special Use Airspace
(SUA). Airspace of defined dimensions identified by an area on the surface of the earth wherein activities must be confined because
of their nature, and/or wherein limitation may be imposed upon aircraft operations that are not part of those activities. Types of special use airspace include Military Operations Areas, Prohibited Areas, Restricted Areas and Warning Areas.
[71 FR 61889, Oct. 20, 2006; 71 FR 66110, Nov. 13, 2006]
§ 245.6
Abbreviations and acronyms.
AADC—Area Air Defense Commander
ADE—Air Defense Emergency
ADIZ—Air Defense Identification Zone
ADLO—Air Defense Liaison Officer
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANR—Alaska NORAD Region
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARTCC—Air Route Traffic Control Center
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATCSCC—Air Traffic Control System Command Center
CARDA—Continental U.S. Airborne Reconnaissance for Damage Assessment
CDS—Chief of the Defence Staff (Canada)
CERAP—Center-RAPCON
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CONR—CONUS NORAD Region
CONUS—Continental United States
CRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet
DEN—Domestic Event Network
DHS—Department of Homeland Security
DND—Department of National Defence (Canada)
DoD—Department of Defense
DOT—Department of Transportation
EATPL—ESCAT Air Traffic Priority List
E.O.—Executive Order
ESCAT—Emergency Security Control of Air Traffic
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
LEA—Law Enforcement Agencies
LIFEGUARD—Civilian air ambulance flights
LNO—Liaison Officer
MEDEVAC—Medical air evacuation flight
NAS—National Airspace System
NEADS—Northeast Air Defense Sector (NORAD)
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
SCA—Security Control Authorization
SEADS—Southeast Air Defense Sector (NORAD)
SUA—Special Use Airspace
TSA—Transportation Security Administration
USNORTHCOM—U.S. Northern Command
USPACOM—U.S. Pacific Command
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
WADS—Western Air Defense Sector (NORAD)
[71 FR 61889, Oct. 20, 2006; 71 FR 66110, Nov. 13, 2006]

# Subpart C—The ESCAT Plan
§ 245.8
Purpose.
This part establishes responsibilities, procedures, and instructions for the security control of civil and military air traffic in order to provide effective use of airspace under various emergency conditions.
§ 245.9
Authority.
(a) E.O. 12656, 18 November 1988, which assigns emergency preparedness functions to Federal departments and agencies.
(b) E.O. 13074, Amendment to E.O. 12656, February 9, 1998.
(c) E.O. 13286, Amendment of E.O. 13276, 13274, 13271, 13260, 13257, 13254, and 13231, and Other Actions, in Connection With the Transfer of Certain Functions to the Secretary of Homeland Security, February 28, 2003.
(d) Title 10 U.S.C.—Armed Forces.
(e) Title 49 U.S.C., Subtitle VII—Aviation Programs.
(f) Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
(g) Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001 (Pub. L. 107-71), establishes the TSA and transfers civil aviation security responsibilities from FAA to TSA.
(h) Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-296), establishes DHS and transfers the transportation security functions of the DOT and Secretary of Transportation and the TSA to DHS.
(i) DoD Directive 5030.19,
1
“DoD Responsibilities on Federal Aviation and
National Airspace System Matters,” outlines DoD/ NORAD responsibilities for the development of plans and policies in concert with the DOT, FAA and USCG for the establishment of a system for identification and emergency security control of air traffic.
1
Copies may be obtained at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/dir2.html.
§ 245.10
Scope.
This part applies to all U.S. territorial airspace and other airspace over which the FAA has air traffic control jurisdiction by international agreement.
§ 245.11
General description of the ESCAT plan.
The part defines the authorities, responsibilities, and procedures to identify and control air traffic within a specified air defense area during air defense emergencies, defense emergency, or national emergency conditions.
(a) For the purpose of this part, the appropriate military authorities are as follows:
(1) Contiguous 48 U.S. states, including Washington, DC; Alaska; and Canada—Commander NORAD or individual NORAD Region/Sector commanders.
(2) Hawaii, Guam, Wake Island, other U.S. Pacific Territories, and Pacific oceanic airspace over which FAA has air traffic control jurisdiction by international agreement—Commander, U.S. Pacific Command (USPACOM) or designated AADC.
(3) Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands—Commander, NORAD.
(b) This part provides for security control of both civil and military air traffic. It is intended to meet threat situations such as:
(1) An emergency resulting in the declaration of an Air Defense Emergency by the appropriate military authority. Under this condition, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders have authority to implement ESCAT and may consider executing this part.
(2) An adjacent Combatant Command is under attack and an Air Defense Emergency has not yet been declared. Under these conditions, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders may direct implementation of ESCAT for their own AORs individually, if airspace control measures are warranted and agreed upon by DoD/DHS/DOT.
(3) Emergency conditions exist that either threaten national security or national interests vital to the U.S., but do not warrant declaration of Defense Emergency or Air Defense Emergency. Under these conditions, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders may direct implementation of ESCAT for their own AORs individually, if airspace control measures are warranted and agreed upon by DoD/DHS/DOT.
§ 245.12
Amplifying instructions.
(a) Prior to any formal ESCAT implementation, the appropriate military authority will consult with DOT through the FAA Administrator and DHS through the TSA Administrator to discuss the air traffic management, airspace and/or security measures required. Every effort will be made to obtain the approval of the Secretary of Defense prior to ESCAT declaration, time and circumstance permitting. Any ESCAT implementation will be passed as soon as possible through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary of Defense.
(b) ESCAT may be implemented in phases to facilitate a smooth transition from normal air traffic identification and control procedures to the more restrictive identification and control procedures specific to the situation.
(c) Once ESCAT is implemented, the appropriate military authority will consult regularly with DOT (through the FAA Administrator) and DHS (through the TSA Administrator) as appropriate, regarding any changes in the air traffic management, airspace, and/or security measures required.
(d) Interference with normal air traffic should be minimized.
(e) The process for implementation of measures for mitigation of hostile use of NAVAID signals, when required, will be subject to separate agreement between DoD and other Departments and Agencies.
(f) Upon the formal declaration of ESCAT, the appropriate military authority has the final authority regarding the extent of measures necessary for successful mission completion.
(g) The rules/procedures governing Special Use Airspace (SUA) will remain
in effect until notified by the appropriate military authority. The appropriate military authority will address SUA use in the ESCAT activation message.
(h) Appropriate Combatant Commanders, in conjunction with their FAA and TSA Liaisons, will prepare supplements to this part for their area of responsibility. These supplements are to consider the special requirement of organized civil defense and disaster relief flights, agricultural and forest fire flights, border patrol flights, and other essential civil air operations so that maximum use of these flights, consistent with air defense requirements, will be made when ESCAT is in effect.
(i) Flight operations vital to national defense, as determined by appropriate military commanders, will be given priority over all other military and civil aircraft.
(j) Prior to or subsequent to the declaration of an Air Defense Emergency, Defense Emergency, or National Emergency, there may be a requirement to disperse military aircraft for their protection. If such dispersal plans are implemented when any part of this part has been placed in effect, operations will be in accordance with the requirements of that portion of the ESCAT plan that is in effect. If any part of the ESCAT plan is ordered while dispersal is in progress, dispersal operations will be revised as required to comply with ESCAT.
(k) Direct communications are authorized between appropriate agencies and units for the purpose of coordinating and implementing the procedures in this part.
(l) To ensure implementation actions can be taken expeditiously, ESCAT tests will be conducted periodically, but at least annually in accordance with § 245.31 of this part.
(m) The area of responsibility of the appropriate military authority does not always align with ARTCC boundaries, especially in the NORAD area where one ARTCC's boundaries may lie within two or more CONUS NORAD Sectors. For NORAD and USPACOM, the FAA ARTCCs/CERAPs are aligned as follows:
Command/region/sector
ARTCC's
CONR South East Air Defense Sector (SEADS)
Atlanta, Fort Worth, Houston, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, Miami, Washington, San Juan CERAP.
CONR North East Air Defense Sector (NEADS)
Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Minneapolis, New York, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Atlanta, Memphis, Washington.
CONR Western Air Defense Sector (WADS)
Albuquerque, Denver, Los Angeles, Oakland, Salt Lake City, Seattle, Fort Worth, Houston, Kansas City, Minneapolis.
ANR (Alaskan NORAD Region)
Anchorage.
PACOM
Honolulu CERAP, Oakland, Anchorage.
(n) Commander NORAD, acting for the DoD, will process and distribute administrative and organizational changes as they occur; however, this part will be reviewed at least once every two years by DHS/TSA, DOT/FAA, and DoD and reissued or changed as required. Recommended changes should be forwarded to: Headquarters North American Air Defense Command, Commander NORAD/J3, ATTN: NJ33C, 250 Vandenberg Street, Suite B106, Peterson AFB, CO 80914-3818.
§ 245.13
Responsibilities.
(a) The NORAD and USPACOM Commanders will:
(1) Establish the military requirements for ESCAT.
(2) Implement the plan as appropriate by declaring ESCAT (including the timing and scope) within their AOR.
(3) Terminate the plan as appropriate by discontinuing ESCAT (including the timing and scope) within their AOR.
(4) Coordinate with the Secretary of Defense or his designee, the CJCS, other Combatant Commands, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security and the Canadian Minister of National Defence, as appropriate, regarding procedures for ESCAT implementation.
(b) The DOT (through the FAA Administrator) will:
(1) Establish the necessary FAA directives/plans including special ATC procedures to implement this part.
(2) Maintain liaison with Combatant Commands whose AORs include FAA areas of authority through the appropriate LNO, or FAA ADLO offices.
(3) Administer this part in accordance with established requirements.
(4) Ensure authorized FAA ADLO positions at NORAD facilities are staffed.
(5) Publish a common use document describing ESCAT and its purpose for use by civil aviation.
(6) Ensure FAA participation with the Combatant Commands in the testing of this part.
(7) Ensure the FAA Air Traffic Organization Service Units will:
(i) Disseminate information and instructions implementing this part within their AORs.
(ii) Place in effect procedures outlined in this part.
(iii) Assist appropriate military authorities in making supplemental agreements to this part as may be required.
(iv) Ensure each ARTCC/CERAP has a plan for diverting or landing expeditiously all aircraft according to the ESCAT priorities imposed upon implementation of ESCAT. Ensure a review and verification of the diversion plan is accomplished each calendar year.
(8) Ensure the ATCSCC/ARTCC/CERAPs will:
(i) Participate with Combatant Commanders in the training/testing of this part at all operational level.
(ii) Ensure dissemination of information and instructions implementing this part within their AORs.
(iii) Place in effect procedures outlined in this part.
(iv) Develop a plan for diverting or landing expeditiously all aircraft according to the ESCAT priorities imposed upon implementation of ESCAT. Review the diversion plan each calendar year.
(c) The DHS (through the TSA Administrator) will:
(1) Establish the necessary TSA directives/plans including special security procedures to implement this part.
(2) Maintain liaison with Combatant Commands whose AORs include TSA geographic areas of authority through the appropriate Federal Security Directors or other field offices.
(3) Administer this part in accordance with established requirements.
(4) Ensure authorized TSA liaison positions at NORAD facilities are staffed.
(5) Issue security directives describing ESCAT and its purpose for use by airport and aircraft operators.
(6) Ensure TSA participation with the Combatant Commands in the testing of this part.
(7) Ensure TSA Federal Security Directors and field offices:
(i) Disseminate information and instructions implementing this part within their AOR.
(ii) Implement procedures outlined in this part.
(iii) Assist appropriate military authorities in making supplemental agreements to this part, as necessary.
(d) The Commanders of Combatant Commands will:
(1) Ensure that departing North American strategic flights are coordinated with appropriate NORAD and FAA/NAVCANADA authorities.
(2) Ensure training/testing of this part at all levels within their command, as appropriate.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Implementation of ESCAT
§ 245.15
Appropriate military authority.
Appropriate military authority will take the following actions:
(a) Notify or coordinate, as appropriate, the extent or termination of ESCAT implementation with DOT and DHS.
(b) Disseminate the extent of ESCAT implementation through the Noble Eagle Conferences and the FAA DEN.
(c) Specify what restrictions are to be implemented. Some examples of restrictions to be considered include:
(1) Defining the affected area.
(2) Defining the type of aircraft operations that are authorized.
(3) Defining the routing restrictions on flights entering or operating within appropriate portions of the affected area.
(4) Defining restrictions for the volume of air traffic within the affected area, using the EATPL, paragraph 245.22 of this part) and Security Control Authorizations, as required.
(5) Setting altitude limitations on flight operations in selected areas.
(6) Restricting operations to aircraft operators regulated under specified security programs (e.g., the Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program
(AOSSP), and the Domestic Security Integration Program (DSIP).
(d) Revise or remove restrictions on the movement of air traffic as the tactical situation permits.
§ 245.16
ATCSCC.
ATCSCC will direct appropriate ARTCCs/CERAPs to implement ESCAT restrictions as specified by the appropriate military authority. ARTCCs/CERAPs will take the following actions when directed to implement ESCAT:
(a) Provide the appropriate military authority feedback through the ATCSCC on the impact of restrictions and when the restrictions have been imposed.
(b) Impose restrictions on air traffic as directed.
(c) Disseminate ESCAT implementation instructions to U.S. civil and military air traffic control facilities and advise adjacent air traffic control facilities.
§ 245.17
U.S. civil and military air traffic control facilities.
U.S. civil and military air traffic control facilities will:
(a) Maintain current information on the status of restrictions imposed on air traffic.
(b) Process flight plans in accordance with current instructions received from the ARTCC. All flights must comply with the airspace control measures in effect, the EATPL, or must have been granted a Security Control Authorization.
(c) Disseminate instructions and restrictions to air traffic as directed by the ARTCCs.
§ 245.18
Transportation security operations center (TSOC).
TSOC will direct appropriate FSDs and field offices to implement ESCAT restrictions as specified by the appropriate military authority. FSDs and field offices will take the following actions when directed to implement ESCAT:
(a) Provide the appropriate military authority feedback through the TSOC on the impact of restrictions and when the restrictions have been implemented.
(b) Impose restrictions on civil aviation as directed by DOT/DHS.
(c) Disseminate ESCAT implementation instructions to U.S. civil aircraft operators and airports.

# Subpart E—ESCAT Air Traffic Priority List (EATPL)
§ 245.20
Purpose.
When ESCAT is implemented, a system of traffic priorities may be required to make optimum use of airspace, consistent with air defense requirements. The EATPL is a list of priorities that may be used for the movement of air traffic in a defined area. Priorities shall take precedence in the order listed and subdivisions within priorities are equal.
§ 245.21
ESCAT air traffic priority list.
(a)
Priority One.
(1) The President of the United States, Prime Minister of Canada and respective cabinet or staff members essential to national security, and other members as approved or designated by the Secretary of Defense and Chief of the Defence Staff.
(2) Aircraft engaged in active continental defense missions, including anti-submarine aircraft, interceptors, air refueling tanker aircraft, and airborne early-warning and control aircraft (e.g., E-3, E-2, P-3).
(3) Military retaliatory aircraft, including direct tanker support aircraft, executing strategic missions.
(4) Airborne command elements which provide backup to command and control systems for the combat forces.
(5) Anchor annex flights.
(b)
Priority Two.
(1) Forces being deployed or in direct support of U.S. military offensive and defensive operations including the use of activated Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) aircraft as necessary, and/or other U.S. and foreign flag civil air carrier aircraft under mission control of the U.S. military.
(2) Aircraft operating in direct and immediate support of strategic missions.
(3) Search and rescue aircraft operating in direct support of military activities.
(4) Aircraft operating in direct and immediate support of special operations missions.
(5) Federal flight operations in direct support of homeland security, e.g., Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA) and aircraft performing security for high threat targets such as Nuclear Power Plants, Dams, Chemical Plants, and other areas identified as high threat targets.
(c)
Priority Three.
(1) Forces being deployed or performing pre-deployment training/workups (e.g., Navy Field Carrier Landing Practice) in support of the emergency condition.
(2) Aircraft deployed in support of CONUS installation/base defense, i.e., aircraft operating in direct/immediate security support, or deploying ground forces for perimeter defense.
(3) Search and rescue aircraft not included in Priority Two.
(4) Flight inspection aircraft flights in connection with emergency restoration of airway and airport facilities in support of immediate emergency conditions.
(5) Continental U.S. Airborne Reconnaissance for Damage Assessment (CARDA) missions in support of immediate emergency conditions.
(d)
Priority Four.
(1) Dispersal of tactical military aircraft.
(2) Dispersal of U.S. civil air carrier aircraft allocated to the CRAF Program.
(3) Repositioning of FAA/DoD/DND flight inspection aircraft.
(4) Flight inspection activity in connection with airway and airport facilities.
(5) Specific military tactical pilot currency or proficiency in support of homeland defense.
(6) Military tactical aircraft post-maintenance test flights.
(7) Federal aircraft post maintenance check flights in support of homeland security.
(e)
Priority Five.
(1) Air transport of military commanders, their representatives, DoD/DND-sponsored key civilian personnel, non-DoD/DND or other Federal key civilian personnel who are of importance to national security.
(2) Dispersal of non-tactical military aircraft for their protection.
(3) Aircraft contracted to and/or operated by Federal agencies
(f)
Priority Six.
(1) State and local LEA directly engaged in law enforcement missions.
(2) Flight operations in accordance with approved Federal and State emergency plans.
(3) LIFEGUARD and MEDEVAC aircraft in direct support of emergency medical services.
(4) Flight operations essential to the development, production, and delivery of equipment, personnel, materials, and supplies essential to national security.
(5) Other essential CARDA missions not covered in Priority Three.
(g)
Priority Seven.
Other military flight operations.
(h)
Priority Eight.
Other flight operations not specifically listed in priorities 1 through 7.
§ 245.22
Policy for application of EATPL.
(a) The originator of an aircraft flight operation under the EATPL shall be responsible for determining and verifying that the mission meets the appropriate definition and priority in accordance with the list described in § 245.22 of this part , and ensuring a security check of crew, cargo and aircraft has been completed prior to take off.
(b) The individual filing the flight plan will be responsible for including the priority number as determined by the originator of the aircraft flight operation, in the remarks section of the flight plan.
(c) Situations may occur that cannot be controlled by the EATPL. Aircraft emergencies and inbound international flights that have reached the point of no return, including foreign air carrier flights en route to safe haven airports in accordance with specific international agreements are examples of such situations. These events must be treated individually through coordination between ATC and appropriate military authorities in consideration of the urgency of the in-flight situation and existing tactical military conditions.
(d)
Exceptions to EATPL.
(1) DoD aircraft in priorities three through seven that do not meet EATPL restrictions may request an exemption from the appropriate military authority. For the
contiguous 48 U.S. states, Alaska, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands and Canada, requests shall be submitted to the appropriate NORAD Sector. For Hawaii, Guam, Wake Island, other U.S. Pacific Territories, and Pacific oceanic airspace over which FAA has air traffic control jurisdiction by international agreement, requests shall be submitted to the designated AADC.
(2) For Federal, State, local government agencies and aircraft in priority eight, a Security Control Authorization may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Requests for SCAs will be coordinated through TSA. TSA will forward those requests that it recommends for approval to the appropriate military authority. Aircraft with a SCA shall have a Security Assurance Check prior to take off. Refer to specific SCA procedures provided in separate agreement between the appropriate military authority and TSA.
[71 FR 61889, Oct. 20, 2006; 71 FR 66110, Nov. 13, 2006]

# Subpart F—Procedure for Movement of Air Traffic Under ESCAT
§ 245.24
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number 1 or 2.
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number 1 or 2 will not be delayed, diverted, or rerouted by Combatant Commanders. However, commanders may recommend that this traffic be rerouted to avoid critical or critically threatened areas.
§ 245.25
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number other than 1 or 2.
Aircraft assigned an EATPL number other than 1 or 2 may be delayed, diverted, or rerouted by Combatant Commanders to prevent degradation of the air defense system.
§ 245.26
Aircraft being recovered.
Aircraft being recovered will be expedited to home or an alternate base. Search and Rescue aircraft may be expedited on their missions. Such aircraft may be diverted to avoid critical areas or takeoff may be delayed to prevent saturation of airspace.
§ 245.27
Data entry.
Aircraft will file IFR or VFR flight plans, assigned a discrete transponder code, and must be in direct radio communication with ATC. The appropriate EATPL number will be entered in the remarks section of the flight plan. The EATPL number will be passed with flight plan data from one ATC facility to the next, and to the appropriate air defense control facilities.

# Subpart G—Test Procedures
§ 245.29
Purpose.
The purpose of establishing training/test procedures is to specify procedures that will allow all participants to determine the time required and assure the capability to notify all agencies/personnel, down to the lowest action level, that ESCAT has been implemented. To ensure the proper level of participation, the appropriate military authority will provide, at a minimum, 30 days notice of a test to the appropriate civil agencies. Testing shall be conducted at least annually.
§ 245.30
ESCAT test procedures restrictions.
(a) Aircraft will not be grounded or diverted.
(b) Test messages will not be broadcast over air/ground frequencies.
(c) Radio communications will not be interrupted.
(d) Navigation Aids will not be affected.
§ 245.31
ESCAT test.
For ESCAT testing, the responsible military commander will notify the ATCSCC using the following sample statement:
(a) Exercise, Exercise, Exercise, this is CONUS NORAD Region with a NORAD exercise message for ______ (State exercise name) ______.
Simulate implementing ESCAT for ______ (Specified Area) ______.
The following air control measures are being implemented. (Some examples are: Flight restricted zones, Temporary Flight Restrictions, and/or other specific air control measures for operators.) __________, __________, __________, __________.
All aircraft not previously mentioned as exemptions are restricted from flight in the affected area until further notice.
and/or
EATPL Priorities ________ through ________ are being implemented.
ATCSCC will advise the appropriate military commander when the affected FAA ATC facilities have reported simulating ESCAT.
This is an exercise message for ______ (State exercise name) ______. Exercise, Exercise, Exercise.
(b) ATCSCC will notify ARTCC(s)/CERAP(s).
(c) ARTCC(s)/CERAP(s) will notify all appropriate U.S. civil and military approach control facilities and FSS. Upon completion of all actions, the implementation completion time will be forwarded to the ATCSCC.
(d) ATCSCC will provide completion times to the appropriate military authority.
(e) Tests should normally be conducted in conjunction with scheduled headquarters NORAD approved exercises. Individual NORAD Regions and Sectors may conduct tests when test objectives are local in nature and prior coordination has been effected with the ATCSCC.
(g) A narrative summary of each test will be prepared by the ATCSCC and copies sent to the appropriate military authority. Each military authority will, in turn, forward copies of the summary to HQ NORAD and DHS.

# Subpart H—Authentication
§ 245.33
Approval.
Authentication will be accomplished via secure communications means between the appropriate military authority and the ATCSCC for the implementation of ESCAT. Implementation will be validated with a call back via secure communications to the appropriate military authority. Further dissemination of information may be accomplished over non-secure communications.
Pt. 246

# PART 246—STARS AND STRIPES (S

# S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Sec.
246.1
Purpose.
246.2
Applicability.
246.3
Definitions.
246.4
Policy.
246.5
Responsibilities.
246.6
Procedures.
246.7
Information requirements.
Appendix A to Part 246—Mission
Appendix B to Part 246—Business and Financial Operations
Appendix C to Part 246—Personnel Policies and Procedures
Appendix D to Part 246—Editorial Operations
Appendix E to Part 246—Stars and Stripes (S
S) Board of Directors

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 136.

# Source:
59 FR 19137, Apr. 22, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 246.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the S
S organizations owned by designated Unified Commands consistent with 32 CFR part 372.
(b) Supersedes policies and procedures in 32 CFR part 247 about the S
S newspapers.
(c) Authorizes the establishment, management, operation, and oversight of the Stars and Stripes, including the resale of commercial publications necessary to support the overall S
S mission, production, distribution authority, and business operations as mission-essential activities of the Department of Defense and the designated Unified Commands.
(d) Designates the Secretary of the Army as the DoD Executive Agent for providing administrative and logistical support to the American Forces Information Service (AFIS), designated Unified Commands, and the S
S.
(e) Authorizes the Commander in Chief, U.S. European Command, and the Commander in Chief (CINC), U.S. Pacific Command, to establish and maintain a S
S board of directors to address S
S business operations in their Unified Commands.
§ 246.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including their National Guard and Reserve components), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Unified and Specified Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”). The term “the Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps.
§ 246.3
Definitions.
(a)
Adverse Conditions.
Conditions that may adversely affect the survival of the newspapers such as troop drawdown, increase in troop population, currency fluctuations, inflation, armed conflict, national contingency deployment, and others.
(b)
S
S Commander/Publisher.
The senior position in each S
S responsible for simultaneously performing dual functions. This military officer commands the S
S to which assigned, while also serving as the publisher of the Stars and Stripes produced by that organization.
(c)
S
S Management Action Group (MAG) and S
S Steering Committee.
These are ad hoc joint committees between the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) [OASD (PA)] and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Force Management and Personnel) [OASD (FM
P)] that address S
S personnel and business policies. The S
S MAG is chaired by the senior OASD (PA) AFIS member and includes members from the OASD (FM
P) and other DoD offices with the authority and expertise to address various S
S problems. The Director of the AFIS, and the Deputy Assistant Secretary, OASD (FM
P), serves as co-chairman of the S
S Steering Committee that addresses DoD-level S
S issues. Neither the DoD S
S Steering Committee, nor the S
S MAG, involve themselves in Stars and Stripes editorial policies.
(d)
S
S Ombudsman.
A highly qualified journalist hired from outside the Department of Defense for a term of 3 years who independently advises the Unified Command CINCs, the S
S commander/publisher, the Stars and Stripes editor, the Director of the AFIS, and the Congress on matters of readership interest in the Stars and Stripes.
(e)
Stars and Stripes.
The title of one, or both, depending on the context of usage, of the newspapers produced by the S
S.
(f)
Stars and Stripes Editor.
The senior civilian position on the newspaper editorial staff of the S
S to which he or she is assigned. All mention of “the editor” in this part refers exclusively to this position, unless otherwise specified.
(g)
Stars and Stripes (S
S).
The organizations that perform the administrative, editorial, and business operations, which include newspapers, bookstores, job-printing plants, etc. necessary to do their mission.
§ 246.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The U.S. European Command and the U.S. Pacific Command are authorized to publish the Stars and Stripes and provide support to the S
S. The Unified Command component commanders and their public affairs staffs shall provide the Stars and Stripes editorial staffs the same help provided to commercial newspapers, in compliance with the principles governing the release of information to media in 32 CFR part 375.
(b) Editorial policies and practices of the Stars and Stripes shall be in accordance with journalistic standards governing U.S. daily commercial newspapers of the highest quality, with emphasis on matters of interest to the Stars and Stripes readership. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the DoD policy for the Stars and Stripes is that there shall be a free flow of news and information to its readership without news management or censorship. The calculated withholding of unfavorable news is prohibited.
(c) The S
S are basically self-sustaining operations. Each S
S shall be administered in accordance with DoD
Directive 1015.1
1
as a joint-Service nonappropriated fund (NAF) instrumentality (NAFI) in its Unified Command, except where different procedures are specified in this part. Funding shall be provided through newspaper sales, resale of commercial publications, authorized advertising, job printing, and appropriated fund (APF) support as authorized by this part, DoD Directive 1015.6
2
and DoD Instruction 1330.18
3
. The S
S shall conduct bookstore operations similar to business operations of commercial bookstores in the United States. The Stars and Stripes and the S
S bookstores provide important news and information to U.S. personnel and their families stationed overseas while generating NAF revenues.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
2
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
3
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
(d) The Stars and Stripes personnel procedures shall differ from commercial newspapers only because the S
S are U.S. Government organizations that are required to operate in accordance with the following:
(1) 32 CFR part 40, other Federal laws and DoD Directives that affect all DoD employees, and the Manual for Courts Martial (MCM), 1984
4
, for S
S military personnel on active duty.
4
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
(2) National security constraints prescribed by E.O. 12356 (47 FR 14874 and 15557, 3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 166).
(3) Overseas status of forces agreements (SOFAs), where applicable.
(e)(1) The only circumstances under which news or information that is not in the public domain may be directed to be withheld from publication in the Stars and Stripes by a Unified Command CINC are when such publication:
(i) Involves disclosure of classified national security information.
(ii) Would adversely affect national security.
(iii) Clearly endangers the lives of U.S. personnel.
(2) Those circumstances in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) may not be construed to permit the calculated withholding of news unfavorable to the Department of Defense, the Military Services, or the U.S. Government. Only the Unified Command CINC may authorize withholding of news or information from the Stars and Stripes. When the CINC directs withholding of publication, the Unified Command shall immediately inform the ASD(PA) by telephone and then forward an immediate precedence, appropriately classified, message to the following: SECDEF Washington DC//OATSD-PA, with information copies to the Director, AFIS, and the Special Assistant for Public Affairs to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The CINC may include the appropriate “AMEMBASSY” as an information addressee.
(f) Sensitivities of host-nations shall not be a reason to withhold any story from publication in the Stars and Stripes. The Unified Command theater host-nation sensitivity lists prepared for the Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) shall not be used to restrict the content of the Stars and Stripes. If representatives of other governments show an interest in, or concern about, the content of the Stars and Stripes, they shall be informed that:
(1) The Stars and Stripes does not represent the official position of the U.S. Government, including the Department of Defense or the Unified Command.
(2) The Stars and Stripes is an unofficial, abstracted collection of commercial news and opinion available to commercial newspapers in the United States, along with Stars and Stripes editorial staff-generated DoD, command, and local news and information. The Stars and Stripes provides this information to the members of the Department of Defense and their family members serving overseas, as do commercial daily newspapers that are published and sold throughout the United States in keeping with the principles of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
(g) The Department of the Army shall be the DoD Executive Agency to provide APF and NAF support to the S
S. APFs shall be provided, when required by adverse conditions or special circumstances as defined in § 246.3, by the Military Services, as agreed on through a memorandum of agreement
(MOA) detailing the shared responsibilities, and approved by the OSD and the Unified Commands.
§ 246.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs), under 32 CFR part 375, as the principal staff assistant to the Secretary of Defense for internal information policy and programs, including S
S matters, shall:
(1) Provide policy and broad operational guidance to the Director of the AFIS.
(2) Monitor and evaluate the overall effectiveness of the policies in § 246.4, and procedures in § 246.6.
(b) The Director, American Forces Information Service, under 32 CFR part 372 shall:
(1) Develop, issue, and oversee the implementation of policies and procedures for the Unified Commands and the Military Departments for the operation of the S
S.
(2) Provide business and policy counsel on the mission performance and financial operations of the S
S.
(3) Serve as the DoD point of contact with the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) for S
S matters.
(4) In coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the ATSD(PA), provide broad and overall planning guidelines to the Unified Commands for S
S wartime operations that involve more than one area of responsibility.
(5) Chair, as required, at the Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense level, or above, the steering committee providing guidance to the S
S MAG.
(6) Select and employ the S
S Ombudsman.
(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:
(1) Nominate the most highly-qualified military personnel for positions in the S
S in accordance with appendix C to this part.
(2) Enter into appropriate MOAs, as provided by the Unified Commanders and, as required by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), to provide APF and/or NAF support when required by adverse conditions as defined in § 246.3(a).
(d) The Secretary of the Army shall:
(1) Provide administrative and logistic support, as the DoD Executive Agent, to the S
S organizations.
(2) Support NAF and APF accounting and reporting procedures required by DoD Instruction 7000.12
5
, in coordination with the Unified Commands and the Director of the AFIS.
5
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
(3) Designate the successor-in-interest to the S
S, as agreed upon by the applicable Unified Command and the Director of the AFIS.
(e) The Commander in Chief, U.S. European Command, and the Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Command, shall:
(1) Authorize a Stars and Stripes newspaper, provide operational direction to the S
S commander publisher, and support the S
S throughout the Unified Command area of responsibility, consistent with each organization's status as a category B NAFI.
(2) Provide Unified Command regulations and guidance, as needed, to carry out this part.
(3) Establish procedures to resolve situations wherein a U.S. Ambassador (or, if so designated, the chief of mission) believes a specific issue in his or her nation of responsibility, not already in the public domain through other news sources, would violate national security or endanger the safety of American citizens, or other persons under their jurisdiction, if it were to be published in the Stars and Stripes.
(4) Select the S
S commander/publisher and other military officers in S
S positions.
(5) Aid the S
S commander/publisher to educate the Stars and Stripes editorial staff about the missions of their Unified Command and Military Service component commands.
(6) Approve the selection of the Stars and Stripes editor.
(7) Establish and maintain a S
S board of directors to address S
S business operations. (See appendix E to this part)
(8) Establish and maintain Stars and Stripes readership forums, which may take many forms, to address Stars and Stripes matters of interest and S
S bookstore operations. Those forums are to provide community feedback to the
S
S. This will enable the S
S commander/publisher and the Stars and Stripes editor to better understand and, thereby, better serve the interests and needs of the readers and bookstore customers.
(9) At the discretion of the Unified Command CINC, provide for meetings between the S
S commander/publisher and the Stars and Stripes editor, the Unified Command public affairs office, and the Unified Command component commands, represented by their directors of public affairs, to discuss the performance of the Stars and Stripes and the performance of related public affairs operations. The Unified Commands, their component commands, and the S
S may invite any attendees they choose. Representatives from the AFIS may attend. Those meetings may not serve as editorial advisory boards. The Unified Command and component commands represent the principal source, and a prominent subject, of Stars and Stripes staff-generated news coverage. Consequently, any involvement or appearance of involvement by component command staffs in the Stars and Stripes editorial policy creates an unacceptable conflict of interest damaging to the editorial integrity and credibility of the Stars and Stripes.
(10) Ensure that the S
S Commander/Publisher:
(i) Assumes the duties and responsibilities of command, leadership, management, and training for the S
S.
(ii) Executes DoD and Unified Command policy.
(iii) Is responsible to the Unified Command CINC for S
S operations to include the newspaper publication and timely circulation, the operation of the S
S resale and job printing activities, and associated distribution systems in the relevant Unified Command area of responsibility.
(iv) Provides planning and execution of initiatives to ensure support of U.S. Armed Forces during contingency operations and armed conflict. The S
S commander/publisher shall identify wartime and contingency S
S personnel asset requirements to the Unified Command CINC to fulfill the Unified Command force responsibilities during armed conflict.
(v) Selects the Stars and Stripes editor.
(vi) Approves, in coordination with the Stars and Stripes editor, military personnel selectees for the Stars and Stripes editorial staff. (See appendix C to this part)
(vii) Provides a current status briefing and 2-year financial forecast to the Director of the AFIS at the annual AFIS S
S meeting. Provides support to the S
S board of directors as required in appendix E to this part.
(viii) Conducts frequent independent readership surveys, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1100.13
6
, and readership focus groups to gather information.
6
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
(f) The Other Unified Commanders in Chief shall ensure that their deployment exercise, contingency, and war-time planning documents reflect the S
S transportation, funding or reimbursement, and in-theater distribution requirements, as applicable. Information copies of such planning documents or annexes shall be furnished to the following:
(1) U.S. European Command (ATTN: Director, Public Affairs).
(2) U.S. Pacific Command (ATTN: Director, Public Affairs).
(3) The AFIS (ATTN: Assistant Director for Plans and Policy).
§ 246.6
Procedures.
(a)
General.
(1) Authority to establish or disestablish S
S operations is from the Secretary of Defense through the ATSD(PA) and the Director of the AFIS. The Unified Commands shall forward such requests to the Director of the AFIS, as required.
(2) Classified information shall be protected in accordance with 32 CFR parts 159 and 159a.
(3) The Stars and Stripes and the S
S business operations shall conform to applicable regulations and laws involving libel, copyright, U.S. Government printing and postal regulations, and DoD personnel policies and procedures.
(4) With the concurrence of the Unified Command, the S
S is authorized
direct communication with the Military Services on S
S personnel matters and with the Department of the Army on S
S financial matters. The S
S shall keep the Unified Command and the AFIS informed of all actions.
(b)
Management Review and Evaluation.
(1) The Director of the AFIS provides business counsel, assistance, and policy oversight for the S
S. The Director of the AFIS shall meet annually with the Unified Command representatives, to include the S
S commander/publisher, and senior DoD officials who have S
S responsibilities, such as the S
S MAG.
(2) The Director of the AFIS shall be assisted by a S
S MAG composed of senior representatives from the AFIS, the OASD(FM
P), and the other DoD offices with the authority and expertise to aid in solving S
S problems. As needed, the Director of the AFIS may organize a DoD steering committee to oversee and aid the S
S MAG to address specific concerns identified by the Director of the AFIS and the Unified Command CINCs.
(3) In accordance with DoD Instruction 7600.6
7
, and Army implementation thereof, the S
S shall be audited on an annual basis, either by the Army Audit Agency (AAA) or by an AAA-approved audit contractor. NAF funds of the S
S shall be used for such contracts. The audits will be performance audits and may be financial in nature as prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States Government Auditing Standards. Each annual audit will determine whether prior audit recommendations have been implemented and the reasons any have not been implemented. When the Inspector General, DoD, elects to perform an audit of the S
S organization, such audit may substitute for the required annual audit. The S
S organizations shall coordinate their audit requirements with each other and the Army Community and Family Support Center to the maximum extent practicable to avoid duplication of costs and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of these audits. Information copies of the audit contractor reports shall be forwarded by the S
S to the Unified Commands, AFIS and AAA. The S
S shall provide a response to the audit to the Unified Command CINC within 60 days of receiving the completed report. The S
S response to the audit must indicate a concurrence or nonconcurrence for each finding and recommendation. For each concurrence the corrective actions taken or planned should be described and completion dates for actions already taken, as well as the estimated dates for completion of planned actions, should be provided. For each nonconcurrence, specific reasons must be stated. If appropriate, alternative methods for accomplishing desired improvements may be proposed. If nonconcurrences in the findings and recommendations cannot be resolved between the S
S management and the auditors or AAA endorses the contractors' findings and recommendations, then the resolution procedures established by DoD Directive 7650.3
8
, and Army Regulations should be followed. The Unified Command shall forward the response to the Director of the AFIS and the AAA.
7
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
8
See footnote 1 to § 246.4(c).
§ 246.7
Information requirements.
The reporting requirements in § 246.6, and appendix B to this part shall be submitted in accordance with DoD Instruction 7000.12, and 7600.6, unless specifically excepted by this part.
Pt. 246, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 246—Mission
A.
General.
The Stars and Strips (S
S) organizations shall contribute to the overall U.S. joint-defense mission overseas by providing news and information for the Armed Forces internal audiences serving in a Unified Command area of responsibility, or deployed in support of designated joint-Service exercises, contingency operations, or situations of armed conflict. That shall be done through the operation of a daily newspaper and resale activities of commercial publications (primarily through the S
S bookstores).
B.
Newspapers.
The Stars and Stripes coverage of news and information makes possible the continued exercise of the responsibilities of citizenship by DoD personnel and their families overseas. The Stars and Stripes are to be published overseas during peacetime, contingency operations, and armed conflicts. They shall provide the same
range of international, national, and regional news and opinion from commercial sources, as is provided by newspapers in the United States. Additionally, to better serve their readers, the Stars and Stripes shall pay special attention to news of local, host-country conditions relevant to their audiences. They shall provide, through their reporters and bureaus, news of local military communities within the theater and news of the U.S. Government, the Department of Defense, the Military Services, and theater operations not usually available to readers from outside commercial sources. The Stars and Stripes are to serve the interests of their overseas DoD readership as do prominent commercial daily newspapers throughout the United States.
C.
S
S Bookstores and Retail Operations.
The S
S shall serve readers' needs for contemporary news and information by providing a broad selection of resale commercial publications of interest to their customers at the most reasonable prices, either directly in the S
S bookstores or through other authorized sales outlets at their discretion throughout the Unified Command designated geographic area. The S
S shall have the same authorities and rights for resale commercial publications that the military exchange services have for other nonsubsistence goods and services.
D.
S
S Job Shop Printing.
The S
S are authorized to operate job shop printing, to include book publishing and/or printing, within the Unified Commands for U.S. military community newspapers, military organizations, nonappropriated fund (NAF) instrumentalities (NAFI), Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) activities, private organizations of interest and concern to the Department of Defense, as designated by 32 CFR part 212, DoD employees and their immediate families, and others designated by the Unified Command.
E.
War-Time Mission and Contingency Operations.
The S
S shall provide the Stars and Stripes on a daily basis for transportation to, and distribution in, the designated area of operations, as requested and funded by the responsible Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), and supported by the respective Unified Command owning the S
S organization. The Unified Commands shall plan for required airlift on a timely basis and intratheater distribution of daily Stars and Stripes newspapers as part of their operational planning documents. Intratheater distribution and required airlift of the Stars and Stripes shall be the responsibility of the supported Unified Command CINC and respective component commands, who shall reimburse the S
S for nonresale issues on a per-issue basis. When deployed to an area of operations, the Stars and Stripes reporters shall operate in the same manner as commercial media representatives. The deployed Stars and Stripes reporters shall be eligible for participation in DoD and command-sponsored regional and local media pools.
Pt. 246, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 246—Business and Financial Operations
A.
General Financial Operations.
1. For financial management purposes, the Unified Commands shall administer the Stars and Stripes (S
S), with policy oversight exercised by the Director of the American Forces Information Service (AFIS), as nonappropriated fund instrumentalities (NAFIs) in accordance with § 246.4(c), except where procedures differ as defined in this part. The S
S shall report as prescribed in DoD Instruction 7000.12,
1
providing information copies to the Unified Commands and the Director of the AFIS.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
a. The S
S shall be authorized nonappropriated fund (NAF) and appropriated fund (APF) support as category B NAFIs as provided under DoD Instruction 1015.6.
2
2
See footnote 1 to A.1. of this appendix.
b. The S
S shall be funded to the maximum extent possible through the sale and distribution of the newspaper, news magazines, books, periodicals, and similar products; job printing; authorized advertising revenues; and other authorized sources of revenue, as approved by the Department of Defense and the Congress.
c. APF support shall be kept to a minimum, consistent with the S
S mission.
2. The Secretary of the Army shall be the DoD Executive Agent for APF and NAF support to the S
S. If adverse conditions occur, the other Military Services shall provide proportionate funding support through a memorandum of agreement (MOA) containing funding procedures coordinated with the affected Unified Commands and the AFIS. Copies of the agreement shall be provided to all concerned parties.
3. The Stars and Stripes and other S
S commercial resale publications may be made available within the Unified Command to other U.S. Government Agency members, and U.S. Government contractors, as approved by the Unified Command.
4. The S
S system of accounting and internal control shall conform with the requirements of DoD Instruction 7000.12, Army regulations on Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) activities and NAFIs, and NAF accounting policies and procedures, except as authorized by the S
S Comptroller's Manual to meet business and consolidation requirements. The S
S shall ensure that quarterly reports are furnished to the Unified Commands, the S
S Board of Directors, and the Director of the AFIS.
B.
Appropriated Funds.
In addition to DoD Directive 1015.6, the S
S shall be authorized APF support:
1. As provided by the U.S. Army for direct funding support when adverse conditions make such funding necessary to ensure the survival of the newspaper without impairment of mission capability. The Secretary of the Army shall provide such funding when requested by the affected Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), through the Director of the AFIS.
2. For regional air transportation of the newspaper, overseas “transportation of things” as authorized to joint-Service NAFIs; and electronic, optical, or satellite transmission of the newspaper when long distances require these modes to ensure timely and economical delivery.
3. As required, to transport Stars and Stripes to officially designated “remote and isolated” locations. The Unified Commands may authorize DoD official postage to remote and isolated locations, if that action is required to ensure timely delivery. Each S
S shall annually review its mailing support to minimize APF expenditures. The U.S. postal regulations apply to the S
S.
a. The S
S shall use in-house or other non-postal means of transportation to distribute the newspaper to areas that are not designated as remote and isolated.
b. The S
S are authorized to use official managerial and administrative mail related exclusively to the business of the U.S. Government in accordance with DoD 4525.8-M,
3
Chapter 3, Subsection O.8. Such official mail is also authorized to support archive responsibilities in the United States, as designated by the AFIS. Official mail may forward the Stars and Stripes through the Department of Defense to the Congress. Official mail is not authorized to provide the Stars and Stripes to general readership or to support in-theater distribution of S
S resale commercial publications.
3
See footnote 1 to A.1. of this appendix.
4. For transportation of military personnel incident to mission-essential travel, required military training, participation in contingency operations, in military field exercises, such as “REFORGER” or “TEAM SPIRIT,” or to areas of armed conflict.
5. In times of armed conflict or national contingency deployment, as directed by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for production and free distribution of the Stars and Stripes to forces as designated. The other Military Services shall reimburse the Department of the Army for services as authorized in the MOA. The Unified Commands shall endeavor to provide the Stars and Stripes and other S
S services for DoD personnel engaged in military operations, contingency operations, and exercises in the most expeditious manner possible as requested by the participating commands. The requesting Unified Command shall be responsible for distribution of the Stars and Stripes within its theater of operations. These services shall be provided on a reimbursable basis to the S
S.
6. In other agreements as made with the Unified Commands, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. Army as the DoD Executive Agency.
C.
Nonapproriated Funds.
1. So that the Department of the Army may perform its duties as the DoD Executive Agency, the S
S NAFS shall be invested in the Army's Banking and Investment Program and insured with the Army's Risk Management Insurance Program in accordance with DoD instruction 7000.12 and the implementing Army regulations.
2. Excess NAFs belonging to the S
S may be declared excess by the Unified Command CINC, upon the recommendation of the S
S board of directors, under the guidelines in section C.3. of this appendix. Disposition of excess NAFs shall be as directed by the Unified Command CINC. The S
S NAFs declared in excess in one theater may be allocated or loaned to the other Unified Command for S
S-related activities.
3. The S
S NAFs may be declared in excess only if the following conditions are met:
a. The S
S working capital is at a level to continue prudent operations.
b. The local national S
S employee retirement and severance accounts are fully funded. The other S
S employment agreements required by applicable NAF regulations must also be fully funded.
c. Sufficient capital is available from an investment and/or contingency fund to complete all planned and projected capital expenditure projects, and to fulfill the other legitimate S
S business obligations.
d. Additional sinking funds are available to sustain the S
S through foreseeable periods of financial crisis created by adverse conditions. The sinking fund level shall be determined by the S
S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval.
e. The retail price of the Stars and Stripes is at, or below, the most prevalent charge for similar U.S. newspapers. That shall be determined by the S
S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval. The Director of the AFIS will be informed of any decision to raise the retail sales price of Stars and Stripes and will provide the Unified Command CINC an assessment of average commercial newspaper sales prices throughout the United States. The availability of the Stars and Stripes at reasonable cost to overseas personnel, commensurate with the retail sales price of comparable commercial newspapers throughout the United States, is a major quality-of-life
consideration. A reasonable retail sales price is critical to ensure the greatest access for all overseas personnel and their family members to current print news and information so that they may remain informed U.S. citizens.
f. The S
S books, periodicals, magazines, and similar products are to be sold at no more than cover price and should be discounted to an appropriate level that still sustains full S
S operations, as determined by the S
S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval.
4. Under adverse conditions, the S
S commander/publisher may apply for NAF support through the Unified Commands to the Director of the AFIS. Following approval by the Unified Command, the Director of the AFIS shall forward the request to the Secretary of the Army for appropriate action. Such NAF requests must first be recommended by the S
S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command CINC. In these cases, the S
S NAFs in either Unified Command may be considered as the first source before forwarding a request to the Department of the Army. The Unified Commands may lend NAFs from one S
S to the other through an MOA.
D.
Bookstores and Related Resale Activities.
1. The S
S shall endeavor to provide the same selection of resale commercial publications that would be available in quality bookstores in the United States through its bookstores, or, at the discretion of the S
S management, other authorized sales outlets. The S
S has the same authorities and rights for resale and distribution of commercial publications that the military exchange services have on military installations for other nonsubsistence goods and services. The assortment of commercial books, periodicals, magazines, and similar products shall approximate publications commercially available in United States bookstore chains of similar size. Decisions on which publications to include shall be made by the S
S on the basis of marketability and service, not content. As an exception to the Army NAF procurement regulations, contracting authority limitations applicable to U.S. Army and joint-Service NAFIs do not apply to the S
S procurement of resale commercial publications. Limitations will be as recommended by the S
S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command.
2. The Unified Command CINC shall adjudicate publications resale issues within the theater that cannot be resolved by the S
S at the operating level.
3. Both S
S shall consolidate their wholesale purchases of commercial publications to the maximum extent, consistent with Unified Command distribution criteria, actual economies of scale, and cost-efficiencies. Consolidation initiatives shall be worked in concert with the Unified Commands, the AFIS, and the S
S board of directors. As recommended by the S
S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command CINC, the S
S bookstores shall offer discounts similar to commercial United States bookstore franchises. The offering of discounts should not endanger the financial viability of the S
S.
4. The S
S bookstores shall be audited by the S
S management at least annually. Where bookstores are operating at a consistent financial loss, the S
S may consider servicing readers through arrangements with exchanges, other military outlets, or consider consolidation at central points.
a. Bookstore inventory levels shall be verified internally on a semiannual basis. Inventory levels shall be held to cost-effective levels that still consider the servicing needs of overseas customers.
b. The S
S shall establish affidavit-return procedures to vendors and/or publishers, where possible, to return damaged merchandise, overstock, or out-of-date publications to reduce APF expenditures necessary for “over-the-water” transportation.
5. The S
S shall conduct local “market-penetration” surveys. The S
S shall also operate a “customer-complaint” feedback system to monitor its service and provide the best possible service to its customers. The results of those surveys shall be provided to the Unified Command with recommendations to the S
S board of directors, as required.
E.
Advertising.
1. As U.S. Government publications, the Stars and Stripes operate under the authority of the “Government Printing
Binding Regulations”
4
issued by the Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) of the U.S. Congress. To serve the readership, the JCP has granted an exemption to Title III of the “Government Printing and Binding Regulations”, authorizing the Stars and Stripes to carry limited advertising so that they may provide information to overseas DoD personnel and their families on commercial goods and services. The Stars and Stripes are authorized to solicit, sell, publish, and circulate display advertising, paid classified ads, and supplement section advertising, to include price and brand names of products or services and related coupons that are available through authorized Government outlets, their concessionaires, NAF activities, or private organizations operating on DoD installations under 32 CFR part 212. The Stars and Stripes may have run-of-the-paper display advertising not to exceed 25 percent of the newspaper over a period of 1 month. In addition, the Stars and Stripes are
authorized to sell, publish, and circulate display advertising, and supplement section advertising for consumer goods and services not available through authorized Government outlets, their concessionaires, NAF activities, or private organizations operating on DoD installations under 32 CFR part 212 when sponsored by MWR activities, NAFIs, or Type I (Federally Sanctioned) private organizations as defined by 32 CFR part 212. Implementation of the advertising authority shall be as specified by the Director of the AFIS, who shall coordinate with the JCP.
4
Copies may be obtained from the Joint Committee on Printing of the U.S. Congress, 818 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510.
2. The Stars and Stripes may sell, through commercial advertising agencies, run-of-the-paper advertising of DoD recruiting and retention programs or activities.
3. The S
S has the right to refuse any advertising.
4. The Stars and Stripes may publish news stories on special DoD-affiliated tours or entertainment opportunities for DoD personnel and their dependents in accordance with DoD Instructions 1015.2
5
and 1330.13
6
.
5
See footnote 1 to A.1 of this appendix.
6
See footnote 1 to A.1 of this appendix.
5. The S
S may promote the Stars and Stripes, books, periodicals, magazines and similar products; authorized advertising; and job printing services (except APF) in the Stars and Stripes. Books, periodicals, magazines, and similar product promotions may include publications by name, title, author, and price. The Stars and Stripes also may promote literacy, health, safety, and other community service issues.
6. The S
S may promote AFRTS schedules, programs, and services in their newspapers and bookstores. The S
S shall cooperate with AFRTS outlets to promote each others' programs and services as authorized by DoD Directive 5120.20
7
.
7
See footnote 1 to A.1 of this appendix.
7. As a newspaper operated by the Department of Defense, the Stars and Stripes may not:
a. Contain any material that implies that the DoD Components or their subordinate levels endorse or favor a specific commercial and/or individually-owned product, commodity, or service.
b. Subscribe, even at no cost, to a commercial, feature wire, or other service whose primary purpose is the advertisement or promotion of commercial products, commodities, or services.
c. Carry any advertisement that implies discrimination as to race, age, origin, gender, politics, religion, or physical characteristics that include health.
F.
Trademark.
The S
S shall trademark the Stars and Stripes in overseas areas where it is distributed.
Pt. 246, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 246—Personnel Policies and Procedures
A.
General Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employment Policies.
1. The Stars and Stripes (S
S) shall have a personnel system that is business oriented in terms of personnel management concepts. The system shall provide maximum authority and accountability to the S
S managers at all levels and shall endeavor to improve productivity through a system of awards and bonuses for high-performing employees. The S
S NAF employees shall be governed in accordance with the U.S. Army NAF regulations, except where exceptions to general policy have been granted by the Unified Commands, the American Forces Information Service (AFIS), and the U.S. Army to the S
S.
2. As DoD employees, the S
S civilian personnel shall abide by 32 CFR part 40, the Department of Defense, the Unified Command, and the U.S. Army regulations, U.S. laws governing Government employees, the applicable host-nation laws, and the applicable status of forces agreements (SOFA) requirements. The S
S commander/publisher shall ensure that the S
S employees are made aware of those provisions before being hired and that employees receive adequate personnel training.
3. The S
S shall endeavor to recruit civilian personnel with solid experience, education, and performance credentials in the required business, publishing, or editorial disciplines. The S
S, as part of its hiring practices, shall specify terms of Government employment and include responsibilities, such as those in 32 CFR part 40, so that the S
S civilian employees are fully aware of their obligations as DoD employees.
B.
Appropriated Fund (APF) Personnel Assignment Authority.
Appropriated-funded manpower staffing to operate, manage, or support the S
S is authorized under DoD Directive 1015.4.
1
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
C.
Military Officer Personnel Procedures.
1. Candidates for the S
S military officer positions shall be nominated by the Military Services, through the Director of the AFIS, to the Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), who shall make the final selection. The S
S military officer positions considered for nomination shall be the S
S commander/publisher and deputy commander(s).
a. The S
S commander/publisher should have military public affairs and joint-Service experience, and a journalism degree.
b. The S
S officers supervising business operations should have experience in DoD Comptroller functions and be familiar with
laws and regulations applicable to DoD and NAFI business operations. A master's degree in business administration is desirable, but not mandatory.
c. Instead of an advanced degree or military public affairs experience, nominees may be authorized, by the Unified Command CINC and the AFIS, to substitute a DoD-funded “training-with-industry” program with comparable newspaper operations in the United States.
d. The Unified Commands shall forecast military vacancies in the S
S to allow time for the Military Services' nomination processes to be completed and provide for education before the S
S assignment.
e. The Military Services shall provide highly qualified officers for all S
S assignments at the required grade levels.
2. Military officers selected for duty as S
S commander/publisher shall undergo a “training-with-industry” program to provide real-world training with a commercial newspaper. That program shall be administered by the Director of the AFIS, in coordination with the Military Services and the Unified Commands.
D.
Enlisted Members of the Stars and Stripes Editorial Staff.
1. Enlisted military personnel shall be assigned to the Stars and Stripes editorial staff, as reflected in the designated Unified Command Joint Manpower Program (JMP) documents, on a nominative basis. The Military Services shall nominate the most mature and professional personnel for assignment to the Stars and Stripes editorial staff at the required JMP grade- and experience-level, coordinating with the Unified Commands and the Director of the AFIS. Nominations shall be considered on a competitive basis by the S
S commander/publisher and the Stars and Stripes editor. The S
S shall request nominations 18 months before projected billet vacancies. The Military Services shall forward nominations 6-10 months in advance to the S
S, (ATTN: S
S Commander/Publisher). The Military Services shall provide the S
S with reasonable overlap of military enlisted members serving on the Stars and Stripes editorial staff.
2. The S
S commander/publisher shall coordinate with the Unified Commands to ensure that there is an appropriate mixture of Military Service billets and/or assignments represented in the S
S to preserve the tradition of the Stars and Stripes as joint-Service newspapers.
Pt. 246, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 246—Editorial Operations
A.
General.
1. The Stars and Stripes shall serve the interests of their overseas DoD readership, as commercial daily newspapers serve their readers throughout the United States. However, as a Government organization, the Stars and Stripes news staff may not take an independent editorial position. The Stars and Stripes editorial practices and policies shall be in accordance with the highest standards of American journalism.
2. The Stars and Stripes editor, with the concurrence of the S
S commander/publisher, and the Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), as the owner of the newspaper, may establish a standard code of personal and professional ethics and general editorial principles similar to those developed at major metropolitan newspapers or by professional journalists in organizations such as the Society of Professional Journalists. Those codes usually stress the following:
a. Responsibility of the newspaper to fully inform its readership.
b. Freedom of the press.
c. Commitment to personal and professional ethics.
d. Emphasis on content accuracy, objectivity, and fair representation of all sides of an issue.
When developed, copies of the code and style guides shall be provided to the Unified Command CINC and the Director of the American Forces Information Service (AFIS).
3. The Stars and Stripes editor shall be responsible for developing editorial procedures and, if required, a style guide that mirrors daily U.S. commercial newspapers.
4. The editorial content of the Stars and Stripes shall be governed by the general principles applicable to quality commercial press as follows:
a.
Presentation of News.
A major purpose of the Stars and Stripes is to provide news and information from varied sources. This aids DoD members and their families stationed overseas to exercise their democratic citizenship responsibilities.
b.
Commercially-Contracted News, Features, and Opinion Columns.
The Stars and Stripes purchase (or contract for) and carry news stories, features, syndicated columns, comic strips, and editorial cartoons from commercial services or sources. Wire-service news, information, and feature material may be edited in accordance with source contracts and for space requirements. The Stars and Stripes reflect the news of the day being carried in comparable U.S. commercial daily newspapers. They should reflect different sides of issues over a reasonable amount of time.
c.
Staff-Generated Copy.
In keeping with the standards established for major daily commercial newspapers in the United States, staff-generated news and features in the Stars and Stripes shall be accurate, factual, impartial, and objective. News stories and feature material shall distinguish between fact and opinion. Every effort should be made to attribute quotations and facts to
identified sources. In the case of controversial or sensitive stories, the Stars and Stripes editor, or his or her designee, shall ascertain the identity of confidential sources, as required by normal journalistic practices that ensure that sources are credible. The Stars and Stripes may use the normal range of journalistic techniques including “people-on-the-street” interviews if that technique does not constitute a political poll.
d.
Political Campaign News.
(1) The Stars and Stripes shall publish coverage of the U.S. political campaigns from commercial news sources. Presentation of such political campaign news shall be made on an impartial, unbiased, and nonpartisan basis reflecting DoD policies of non-endorsement of any specific candidate for an elected office. Every effort should be made to ensure that the Stars and Stripes reflect the full spectrum of campaign news being published in the United States on national candidates and issues.
(2) The Stars and Stripes shall support the Federal Voting Assistance Program by carrying factual information about registration and voting laws.
e. The Stars and Stripes shall provide balance in commercial syndicated columns. Since the Stars and Stripes may not take an independent editorial position, a balanced selection of syndicated opinion columns shall be published over a reasonable time period. The presentation of syndicated editorial cartoons should reflect the full spectrum of topical editorial cartoons being published throughout the United States. The S
S commander/publisher shall provide the Unified Commands annual assurance that the required balance for syndicated opinion columns has been met.
B.
Administrative.
1. The Stars and Stripes shall comply with DoD Instruction 1100.13
1
on polls, surveys, and straw votes. The Stars and Stripes may not conduct a poll, a survey, exit polls, or a straw vote on any political campaign. The Stars and Stripes may publish polls, surveys, and/or straw votes furnished to the newspaper through its contracted wire services. The Stars and Stripes may not conduct lottery games.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
2. The Stars and Stripes shall have the following disclaimer placed in the masthead or at the extreme bottom of one of the prominent pages, segregated from copy in a box:
This newspaper is authorized for publication by the Department of Defense for members of the Military Services overseas. However, the contents of the Stars and Stripes are unofficial, and are not to be considered as the official views of, or endorsed by, the U.S. Government, including the Department of Defense or the (name of the appropriate Unified Command). As a DoD newspaper, the Stars and Stripes may be distributed through official channels and use appropriated funds for distribution to remote and isolated locations where overseas DoD personnel are located.
The appearance of advertising in this publication, including inserts or supplements, does not constitute endorsement by the Department of Defense or the Stars and Stripes of the products or services advertised.
Products or services advertised in this publication shall be made available for purchase, use, or patronage without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, marital status, physical handicap, political affiliation or any other nonmerit factor of the purchaser, user, or patron.
C.
Editorial.
1. The Stars and Stripes news staffs are authorized to gather and report news, good and bad, on the Department of Defense and its subordinate commands. All reporting necessarily requires some investigation and, as with journalists on commercial newspapers, the Stars and Stripes news staff members have the right and need to ask questions and expect response to fulfill the S
S mission. However, the Stars and Stripes is not an authorized investigative agency, such as military law enforcement agencies, investigative bodies, or an Inspector General, and shall not function in that capacity. As DoD employees, the Stars and Stripes news staff members must adhere to the DoD personnel policies that may not usually apply to journalists employed by commercial newspapers and must comply with 32 CFR part 40 and, as applicable, the Manual for Courts Martial, 1984.
2
2
See footnote 1 to B.1. of this appendix.
a. Since most journalistic reporting is investigative by nature, “investigative reporting,” as such, is not banned. The Stars and Stripes reporters have the same need to ask questions of sources, and expect responses, as do commercial newspaper journalists. While the Stars and Stripes staff cannot conduct independent investigations that fall under the jurisdiction of various military law enforcement or designated investigative agencies, the Stars and Stripes may report on open or completed investigations by agencies authorized to perform investigative functions. If the Stars and Stripes employees note unlawful or criminal actions in their performance of duty, they must report such incidents immediately to the S
S commander/publisher or to their immediate supervisor, in accordance with 32 CFR part 40, who shall also comply with 32 CFR part 40 and, as applicable, DoD Directive 7050.1
3
and
DoD Instruction 5240.4.
4
If there is an authorized investigation, a Stars and Stripes reporter or editor cannot protect a source as confidential when the information may be required to complete the investigation. Coverage of an investigation, from a news perspective, should be based on case progress or the resolution provided by the investigative agency if considered newsworthy by the Stars and Stripes. The Stars and Stripes editorial procedures shall not prohibit publishing news of independent investigations furnished by commercial media and, therefore, in the public domain.
3
See footnote 1 to B.1. of this appendix.
4
See footnote 1 to B.1. of this appendix.
b. The Stars and Stripes staff may not knowingly place classified information in Stars and Stripes staff-generated material. That does not apply to public domain information attributed to commercially contracted news, features, or opinion columns.
2. The Stars and Stripes editorial staffs shall receive the same treatment as commercial media.
a. The Stars and Stripes reporters shall have the same right to ask questions, to gain help, to have access, and to attend gatherings available to reporters from the commercial media. Commanders or public affairs staffs may not use the U.S. Government status of Stars and Stripes reporters to block the release of, or access to, otherwise releasable news, information, or events. Under the same circumstances, the Stars and Stripes reporters may not use their U.S. Government status or credentials to gain special treatment, access to restricted areas or gatherings, or other advantages that are not given equally to civilian media.
b. In keeping with the “Principles of Information” in 32 CFR part 375 governing release of information to commercial media, the DoD Components are expected to make available timely and accurate information so that the Stars and Stripes news staffs and readers may assess and understand the facts about their military organizations, the national defense, and defense strategy. Consistent with statutory requirements, information shall be made fully and readily available under the principles for the release of information to the media issued by the Secretary of Defense. A Government organization may not file a request for information against another Government organization under 32 CFR part 285, which implements the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in the Department of Defense, but it is the responsibility of all commands to honor the DoD Principles of Information, particularly regarding the intent of open access as described in 32 CFR part 285 when responding to queries from Stars and Stripes reporters.
3. To meet organizational responsibilities, the Stars and Stripes editor, the S
S commander/publisher, and the Stars and Stripes staff members they select, should meet frequently with area commanders and public affairs officers and staffs to confer, as their counterparts in U.S. commercial daily newspapers do with local government and community interest representatives.
4. When matters of interest to the Stars and Stripes readership cut across the Unified Command component command responsibilities, the Stars and Stripes editor may use “special project reporting teams” to examine such concerns. Whether the areas of Stars and Stripes interest are military exercises, fast-breaking news affecting the entire Unified Command community, or policies that require a greater-than-individual-reporter effort, the Stars and Stripes editor, through the S
S commander/publisher, can gain help by keeping the Unified Command and its component command public affairs offices informed of the need for theater-wide assistance. Such aid could help dispel morale-damaging rumors.
5. The Stars and Stripes shall conduct readership surveys at least once every 3 years in the Unified Commands where the Stars and Stripes are distributed. Such formal surveys shall be conducted in accordance with DoD Instruction 1100.13. The S
S may make shorter market surveys through its bookstore operations to determine changing readership interests. The Stars and Stripes is also encouraged to make frequent use of readership focus groups throughout the Unified Command.
6. The Stars and Stripes may review commercial entertainment where relevant and where it supports readership interest.
7. All bureau personnel and field reporters shall have Stars and Stripes newsroom experience before being given independent assignments. The Stars and Stripes military reporters may wear military or civilian clothes at the discretion of the S
S commander/publisher. If authorized by the S
S commander/publisher, Stars and Stripes military members may be authorized a clothing allowance in accordance with individual Service directives.
8. The Stars and Stripes are both authorized to maintain a Washington, DC, bureau located with other correspondent bureaus in the OASD (PA) Correspondents' Corridor. A desk will be provided for each Stars and Stripes. The S
S shall select the most qualified reporters possible for assignment to the bureau. A joint memorandum of understanding on personnel support shall be established between the two newspapers and approved by the Unified Commands, with a copy provided to the Director of the AFIS.
Pt. 246, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 246—Stars and Stripes (S

# S) Board of Directors
A.
Organization and Management.
1. The S
S board of directors of each Unified Command shall provide advice to the S
S management, and recommend guidance to its Commander-in-Chief (CINC) on all business operations. Attendance is at the direction of the Unified Command CINC.
2. Each Unified Command CINC shall designate the chairman of its S
S board of directors.
3. Each S
S board of directors shall include a member from the Unified Command Offices of Public Affairs and the Comptroller, and at least one member from each of the Unified Command Service components. Members shall be appointed by the Unified Command CINC for 2 years to ensure continuity. They shall be the best qualified personnel available in business-related disciplines. Members should be at the grade of 0-5, GS-12, or higher. Other than the Unified Command and the S
S senior representatives, the S
S board members should not be members of any other S
S forums or councils. Representatives from the American Forces Information Service (AFIS) and one S
S may attend the meetings of the other S
S board of directors and have their observations included in the minutes, but they are not voting members. Recommendations approved by the S
S board of directors may be incorporated by the Unified Command CINC into the Unified Command S
S instruction or directive, as applicable.
4. The S
S board of directors should meet at least three times each year. The minutes of each meeting shall be approved by the Unified Command CINC. The approved S
S board recommendations shall be incorporated, as permanent policy, into the Unified Command S
S implementing instructions or directives. Where such recommendations affect DoD policy, the Unified Commands shall ask the Director of the AFIS for resolution. The S
S commander/publisher shall provide sufficient documentation to the S
S board members between meetings to inform them of on-going business operations and the execution of financial actions.
B.
Functions.
1. The S
S board of directors shall monitor planning and execution of the S
S business activities.
2. The S
S board of directors shall aid the S
S commander/publisher with evaluation of external factors that impact the S
S, such as adverse conditions, as recommended by the S
S commander/publisher, the S
S board of directors, or the Unified Command CINC.
3. Annually, the S
S commander/publisher shall provide a financial plan that shall include a capital expenditure budget and a 2-year forecast for the S
S board of directors' evaluation and recommendation to the Unified Command CINC. The S
S shall also forecast and get approval for building and/or construction projects through the S
S board of directors.
4. The S
S shall maintain a 5-year business strategic and corporate plan that shall be forwarded to the S
S board of directors. The Unified Commands shall forward the on-going strategic and corporate plan to the Director of the AFIS for overall DoD strategic goals.
Pt. 247

# PART 247—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
Sec.
247.1
Purpose.
247.2
Applicability.
247.3
Definitions.
247.4
Policy.
247.5
Responsibilities.
247.6
Procedures.
247.7
Information requirements.
Appendix A to Part 247—Funded Newspapers and Magazines
Appendix B to Part 247—CE Publications
Appendix C to Part 247—Mailing of DoD Newspapers, Magazines, CE Guides, and Installation Maps; Sales and Distribution of Non-DoD Publications
Appendix D to Part 247—AFIS Print Media Directorate
Appendix E to Part 247—DoD Command Newspaper and Magazine Review System

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 121 and 133.

# Source:
62 FR 42905, Aug. 11, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 247.1
Purpose.
This part implements DoD Directive 5122.10
1
and implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures concerning authorized DoD Appropriated Funded (APF) newspapers and magazines, and Civilian Enterprise (CE) newspapers, magazines, guides, and installation maps in support of the DoD Internal Information Program.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22121.
§ 247.2
Applicability.
This part:
(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”). The term “Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and includes the Coast Guard when operating as a Military Service in the Navy. The term Commander, as used herein, also means Heads of the DoD Components.
(b) Does not apply to the
Stars and Stripes (S
S)
newspapers and business operations.
S
S
guidance is provided in DoD Directive 5122.11.
2
2
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(c) The term Commander, as used in this part, also means Heads of the DoD Components.
§ 247.3
Definitions.
Civilian Enterprise (CE) guides and installation maps.
Authorized publications containing advertising that are prepared and published under contract with commercial publishers. The right to circulate the advertising in these publications to the DoD readership constitutes contractual consideration to pay for these DoD publications. The publications become the property of the command, installation, or intended recipient upon delivery in accordance with terms of the contract. Categories of these publications are:
(1)
Guides.
Publications that provide DoD personnel with information about the mission of their command; the availability of command, installation, or community services; local geography; historical background; and other information. These publications may include installation telephone directories at the discretion of the commander.
(2)
Installation maps.
Publications designed for orientation of new arrivals or for visitors.
CE publications.
CE newspapers, CE magazines, CE guides and installation maps produced commercially under the CE concept.
DoD newspapers.
Authorized, unofficial publications, serving as part of the commander's internal information program, that support DoD command internal communication requirements. Usually, they are distributed weekly or monthly. DoD newspapers contain most, if not all, of the following elements to communicate with the intended DoD readership: command, military department, and DoD news and features; commanders' comments; letters to the editor; editorials; commentaries; features; sports; entertainment items; morale, welfare, and recreation news and announcements; photography; line art; and installation and local community news and announcements. DoD newspapers do not necessarily reflect the official views of, or endorsement of content by, the Department of Defense.
(1)
CE newspapers.
Newspapers published by commercial publishers under contract with the DoD Components or their subordinate commands. The commander or public affairs office provides oversight and final approval authority for the news and editorial content of the paper. Authorized news and information sources include the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OASD(PA)), AFIS, the Military Departments, their subordinate levels of command, and other Government Agencies. CE contractor personnel may provide material for use in the newspaper if approved by the commander or public affairs officer (PAO), as the commander's representative. These newspapers contain advertising sold by the commercial publisher on the same basis as for CE guides and installation maps and may contain supplements or inserts. They become the property of the command, installation, or intended recipient upon delivery in accordance with terms of the contract.
(2)
Funded newspapers.
Newspapers published by the DoD Components or their subordinate commands using appropriated funds. The editorial content of these newspapers is prepared by the internal information section of the public affairs staff or other internal sources. Usually, these newspapers are printed by the Government Printing Office (GPO) or under GPO contract in accordance with Government printing
regulations. DoD Directive 5330.3
3
specifies DPS as the sole DoD conduit to the GPO.
3
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(3)
Overseas Combatant Command newspapers.
Newspapers published for overseas audiences approved by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ASD(PA)) to provide world, U.S., and regional news from commercial sources, syndicated columns, editorial cartoons, and applicable U.S. Government, Department of Defense, Component, and subordinate command news and information.
(4)
News bulletins and summaries.
Publications of deployed or isolated commands and ships compiled from national and international news and opinion obtained from authorized sources. News bulletins or summaries may be authorized by the next higher level of command when no daily English language newspapers are readily available.
Inserts.
A flier, circular, or freestanding advertisement placed within the folds of the newspaper. No disclaimer or other labeling is required.
Magazines.
Authorized, unofficial publications, serving as part of the commander's internal information program. They are produced and distributed periodically, usually monthly, and contain information of interest to personnel of the publishing DoD component or organization. They usually reflect a continuing policy as to purpose, format, and content. They are normally non-directive in nature and are published to inform, motivate, and improve the performance of the personnel and organization. They may be published as funded magazines or under the CE concept.
Option.
A unilateral right in a contract by which, for a specified time, the Government may elect to acquire additional supplies or services called for by the contract, or may elect to extend the term of the contract.
Organizational terms
—(1)
Command.
A unit or units, an organization, or an area under the command of one individual. It includes organizations headed by senior civilians that require command internal information-type media.
(2)
DoD Components.
See § 247.2 (a).
(3)
Installation.
A DoD facility or ship that serves as the base for one or more commands. Media covered by this part may serve the command communication needs of one or several commands located at one installation.
(4)
Major command.
A designated command such as the Air Mobility Command or the Army Forces Command that serves as the headquarters for subordinate commands or installations that have the same or related missions.
(5)
Subordinate levels.
Lower levels of command.
Publications.
As used in this part, “publications” refers to DoD newspapers, magazines, guides and/or installation maps serving the commander's internal information program published in both paper and electronic format, including digital printing.
Supplements.
Features, advertising sections, or morale, welfare and recreation sections printed with or inserted into newspapers for distribution. Supplements must be labeled “Supplement to the (name of newspaper).” Editorial content in supplements is subject to approval by the commander or the PAO as his or her agent.
§ 247.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) A free flow of news and information shall be provided to all DoD personnel without censorship or news management. The calculated withholding of news unfavorable to the Department of Defense is prohibited.
(b) News coverage and other editorial content in DoD publications shall be factual and objective. News and headlines shall be selected using the dictates of good taste. Morbid, sensational, or alarming details not essential to factual reporting shall be avoided.
(c) DoD publications shall distinguish between fact and opinion, both of which may be part of a news story. When an opinion is expressed, the person or source shall be identified. Accuracy and balance in coverage are paramount.
(d) DoD publications shall distinguish between editorials (command position) and commentaries (personal opinion) by clearly identifying them as such.
(e) News content in DoD publications shall be based on releases, reports, and materials provided by the DoD Components and their subordinate levels, DoD newspaper staff members, and other government agencies. DoD publications shall credit sources of all material other than local, internal sources. This includes, but is not limited to, Military Department news sources, American Forces Information Service, and command news releases.
(f) DoD publications may contain articles of local interest to installation personnel produced outside official channels (e.g., stringers, local organizations), provided that the author's permission has been obtained, the source is credited, and they do not otherwise violate this part.
(g) DoD publications normally shall not be authorized the use of commercial news and opinion sources, such as Associated Press (AP), United Press International (UPI), New York Times, etc., except as stated in this paragraph and the following paragraph. The use of such sources is beyond the scope of the mission of command or installation publications and puts them in direct competition with commercial publications. The use of such sources may be authorized for a specific DoD newspaper by the cognizant DoD Component only when other sources of national and international news and opinion are not available.
(h) Overseas Combatant Command newspapers published outside the United States may purchase or contract for and carry news stories, features, syndicated columns, and editorial cartoons from commercial services or sources. A balanced selection of commercial news or opinion shall appear in the same issue and same page, whenever possible, but in any case, over a reasonable time period. Selection of commercial news sources, syndicated columns, and editorial cartoons to be purchased or contracted for shall be approved by the Commanders. Overseas Combatant Command newspapers, news bulletins, and news summaries authorized to carry national and world news may include coverage of U.S. political campaign news from commercial news sources. Presentation of such political campaign news shall be made on a balanced, impartial, and nonpartisan basis.
(i) The masthead of all DoD publications shall contain the following disclaimer printed in type no smaller than 6-point: “This (DoD newspaper, magazine, guide or installation map) is an authorized publication for members of the Department of Defense. Contents of (name of the DoD newspaper/magazine/this guide/this installation map) are not necessarily the official views of, or endorsed by, the U.S. Government, the Department of Defense, or (the name of the publishing DoD Component).”
(j) The masthead of DoD CE publications shall contain the following statements in addition to that contained in paragraph (i) of this section:
(1) “Published by (name), a private firm in no way connected with the (Department of Defense/the U.S. Army/the U.S. Navy/the U.S. Air Force/the U.S. Marine Corps) under exclusive written contract with (DoD Component or subordinate level).”
(2) “The appearance of advertising in this publication, including inserts or supplements, does not constitute endorsement by the (Department of Defense/the U.S. Army/the U.S. Navy/the U.S. Air Force/the U.S. Marine Corps), or (name of commercial publisher) of the products or services advertised.”
(3) “Everything advertised in this publication shall be made available for purchase, use, or patronage without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, marital status, physical handicap, political affiliation, or any other nonmerit factor of the purchaser, user, or patron.” If a violation or rejection of this equal opportunity policy by an advertiser is confirmed, the publisher shall refuse to print advertising from that source until the violation is corrected.
(k) DoD publications shall not contain campaign news, partisan discussions, cartoons, editorials, or commentaries dealing with political campaigns, candidates, issues, or which advocate lobbying elected officials on specific issues. DoD CE publications shall not carry paid political advertisements for a candidate, party, which advocate a particular position on a political issue, or which advocate lobbying elected officials on a specific issue.
This includes those advertisements advocating a position on any proposed DoD policy or policy under review.
(l) DoD newspapers shall support the Federal Voting Assistance Program by carrying factual information about registration and voting laws, especially those on absentee voting requirements of the various States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories and possessions. DoD newspapers shall use voting materials provided by the Director, Federal Voting Assistance Program; the OSD; and the Military Departments. Such information is designed to encourage DoD personnel to register as voters and to exercise their right to vote as outlined in DoD Directive 1000.4.
4
4
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(m) DoD publications shall comply with DoD Instruction 1100.13
5
pertaining to polls, surveys, and straw votes.
5
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(1) The DoD Components and subordinate levels may authorize polls on matters of local interest, such as soldier of the week, and favorite athlete.
(2) A DoD publication shall not conduct a poll, a survey, or a straw vote relating to a political campaign or issue.
(3) Opinion surveys must be in compliance with Military Service regulations.
(n) DoD newspapers will support officially authorized fund-raising campaigns (e.g., Combined Federal Campaign (CFC)) within the Department of Defense in accordance with DoD Directive 5035.1.
6
News coverage of the campaign will not discuss monetary goals, quotas, competition or tallies of solicitation between or among agencies. To avoid any appearance of endorsement, features and news coverage will discuss the campaign in general and not promote specific agencies within the CFC. Agencies may be mentioned routinely but must not be a main focus of features and news coverage.
6
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(o) DoD publications shall not:
(1) Contain any material that implies that the DoD Components or their subordinate levels endorse or favor a specific commercial product, commodity, or service.
(2) Subscribe, even at no cost, to a commercial or feature wire or other service whose primary purpose is the advertisement or promotion of commercial products, commodities, or services.
(3) Carry any advertisement that violates or rejects DoD equal opportunity policy. (See paragraph (j)(3) of this section).
(p) All commercial advertising, including advertising supplements, shall be clearly identifiable as such. Paid advertorials and advertising supplements may be included but must be clearly labeled as advertising and readily distinguishable from editorial content.
(q) Alteration of official photographic and video imagery will comply with DoD Directive 5040.5.
7
7
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(r) Commercial sponsors of Armed Forces Professional Entertainment Program events and morale, welfare and recreation events may be mentioned routinely with other pertinent facts in news stories and announcements in DoD newspapers. (See DoD Instructions 1330.13
8
and 1015.2.
9
8
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
9
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(s) Book, radio, television, movie, travel, and other entertainment reviews may be carried if written objectively and if there is no implication of endorsement by the Department of Defense or any of its Components or their subordinate levels.
(t) All printing using appropriated funds will be obtained in accordance with DoD Directive 5330.3.
(u) Although DoD internet web sites are normally discouraged from linking to commercial activities, the commander may authorize an installation web site to be linked to the web site carrying the authorized civilian enterprise publication.
§ 247.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, consistent with DoD Directive 5122.5,
10
shall:
10
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(1) Develop policies and provide guidance on the administration of the DoD Internal Information Program.
(2) Provide policy and operational direction to the Director, AFIS.
(3) Monitor and evaluate overall mission effectiveness within the Department of Defense for matters under this part.
(b) The Director, American Forces Information Service, shall:
(1) Develop and oversee the implementation of policies and procedures pertaining to the management, content, and publication of DoD publications encompassed by this part.
(2) Serve as DoD point of contact with the Joint Committee on Printing, Congress of the United States, for matters under this part.
(3) Serve as the DoD point of contact in the United States for Combatant Command newspaper matters.
(4) Provide guidance to the Combatant Commands, Military Departments, and other DoD Components pertaining to DoD publications.
(5) Monitor effectiveness of business and financial operations of DoD publications and provide business counsel and assistance, as appropriate.
(6) Sponsor a DoD Interservice Newspaper Committee and a Flagship Magazine Committee composed of representatives of the Military Departments to coordinate matters on publications encompassed by this part and flagship magazine matters, respectively.
(7) Provide a press service for joint-Service news and information for use by authorized DoD publication editors.
(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:
(1) Provide policy guidance and assistance to the Department's publications.
(2) Encourage the use of CE publications when they are the most cost-effective means of fulfilling the command communication requirement.
(3) Ensure that adequate resources are available to support authorized internal information products under this part.
(4) Designate a member of their public affairs staff to serve on the DoD Interservice Newspaper Committee.
(5) Ensure all printing obtained with appropriated funds complies with DoD Directive 5330.3.
(d) The Commanders of Combatant Commands shall:
(1) Publish Combatant Command newspapers, if authorized. In discharging this responsibility, the Commander shall ensure that policy, direction, resources, and administrative support are provided, as required, to produce a professional quality newspaper to support the command mission.
(2) Ensure that the newspaper is prepared to support U.S. forces in the command area during contingencies and armed conflict.
§ 247.6
Procedures.
(a)
General.
(1) National security information shall be protected in accordance with DoD Directive 5200.1
11
and DoD 5200.1-R.
12
11
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
12
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(2) Specific items of internal information of interest to DoD personnel and their family members prepared for publication in DoD publications may be made available to requesters if the information can be released as provided in DoD Directive 5400.7
13
and DoD 5400.1-R.
14
13
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
14
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(3) Editorial policies of DoD publications shall be designed to improve the ability of DoD personnel to execute the missions of the Department of Defense.
(4) DoD editors of publications covered under this part shall conform to applicable policies, regulations, and laws involving the collection, processing, storage, use, publication and distribution of information by DoD Components (e.g., libel, photographic image alteration, copyright, sexually explicit materials, classification of information, protection of sensitive information and U.S. Government printing and postal regulations).
(5) DoD publications shall comply with DoD Directive 5400.11
15
regarding the DoD privacy program.
15
See footnote 1 to § 247.1.
(b)
Establishment of DoD newspapers.
(1) Commanders are authorized to establish Funded newspapers (appendix A
to this part) or CE newspapers (appendix B to this part) when:
(i) A valid internal information mission requirement exists.
(A) Command or installation newspapers provide the commander a primary means of communicating mission-essential information to members of the command. They provide feedback through such forums as letters to the editor columns. This alerts the commander to the emotional status and state of DoD knowledge of the command. The newspaper is used as a return conduit for command information to improve attitudes and increase knowledge.
(B) News reports and feature stories on individuals and organizational elements of the command provides a crossfeed of DoD information, which improves internal cooperation and mission performance. Recognition of excellence in individual or organizational performance motivates and sets forth expected norms for mission accomplishment.
(C) The newspaper improves morale by quelling rumors and keeping members informed on DoD information that will affect their futures. It provides information and assistance to family members, which improve their spirits and thereby the effectiveness of their military service and/or civilian member. The newspaper encourages participation in various positive leisure-time activities to improve morale and deter alcohol abuse and other pursuits that impair their ability to perform.
(D) The newspaper provides information to make command members aware of the hazards of the abuse of drugs and other substances, and of the negative impact that substance abuse has on readiness.
(E) CE newspapers provide advertisements that guide command members to outlets where they may fulfill their purchasing needs. A by-product of this commercial contact is increased installation-community communication, which enhances mutual support.
(F) The newspaper increases organizational cohesiveness and effectiveness by providing a visual representation of the essence of the command itself.
(G) Good journalistic practices are vital, but are not an end unto themselves. They are the primary means to enhance receptivity of command communication through the newspaper.
(H) The newspaper exists to facilitate accomplishment of the command or installation mission. That is the only basis for the expenditure of DoD resources to produce them.
(ii) A newspaper is determined by the commander and the next higher level of command to be the most cost-effective means of fulfilling the command internal communication requirement.
(2) The use of appropriated funds is authorized to establish a Funded newspaper if a CE newspaper is not feasible. The process of establishing a newspaper must include an investigation of the feasibility of publishing under the CE concept. This investigation must include careful consideration of the potential for real or apparent conflict of interest. If publishing under the CE concept is determined to be feasible, commanders must ensure that they have obtained approval to establish the newspaper before authorizing their representatives to negotiate a contract with a CE publisher.
(3) DoD newspapers are mission activities. The use of nonappropriated funds for any aspect of their operations is not authorized.
(4) Appropriated funds shall not be used to pay any part of the commercial publisher's costs incurred in publishing a CE publication.
(5) Only one DoD newspaper or magazine is authorized for each command or installation.
(i) If a newspaper is required at an installation where more than one command or headquarters is collocated, the host commander shall be responsible for publication of one funded or CE newspaper for all. The host command shall provide balanced and sufficient coverage of the other commands, their personnel, and activities in that locality. These commands, or headquarters, shall assist the staff of the host newspaper with coverage. If required by unusual circumstance, a commander other than the host may publish the single authorized newspaper when the majority of affected organizations concur.
(ii) This provision is not intended to prohibit the headquarters of a geographically dispersed command that receives its local coverage in the host installation newspaper from publishing a command-wide newspaper; nor is it intended to prohibit a command that has information needs that are significantly different from the majority of the host installation audience from publishing a separate newspaper, when authorized by the designated approving authority. (See appendix E to this part).
(iii)
Establishment of CE Guides and Installation Maps.
When valid communication requirements exist, publications in this category may be established by the commander, if feasible. (See appendix B to this part) Only one CE guide and installation map is authorized for each command or installation. The requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, apply to CE guides and installation maps. These publications shall be approved by the next higher level. Approval authorities shall exercise care not to overburden community advertisers.
(iv)
Use of trademark.
The DoD Components and their subordinate levels shall trademark—State, Federal, or both—the names of their publications when possible.
(v)
Use of recycled products.
The public affairs office shall, whenever possible, based on contractual agreements, use recycled paper for publications covered under this part.
(vi)
Mailing requirements and sales and distribution of non-DoD publications.
See appendix C to this part.
(vii)
AFIS print media directorate.
See appendix D to this part.
(viii)
DoD command newspaper and magazine review system.
See appendix E to this part.
(6) When, in the opinion of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, or the Combatant Command Commander, a Combatant Command newspaper is needed, establishment shall be directed by the Secretary of Defense. Both appropriated and nonappropriated funds may be used in the publication of overseas Combatant Command newspapers.
(7)
Establishment of magazines.
New magazines shall be approved by the Head of the publishing DoD Component. New magazines serving the Military Services shall be approved in accordance with Service procedures. Only one DoD magazine or newspaper is authorized for each command or installation. Magazines are normally financed through appropriated funds. When CE magazines are approved, provisions in this part regarding advertising and contracting for CE publications apply to CE magazines. Magazines must:
(i) Serve a clearly defined purpose in support of the mission of the publishing DoD Component, and the purpose must justify the cost.
(ii) Not duplicate equivalent magazines serving the same, or substantially the same purpose.
(iii) Be published and distributed efficiently and economically.
(iv) Be reviewed every two years by the publishing DoD Component to ensure they are in compliance with this part, are mission essential, and are economically achieving their desired objective.
§ 247.7
Information requirements.
The biennial reporting requirement contained in this part has been assigned Report Control Symbol DD-PA(BI) 1638.
Pt. 247, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 247—Funded Newspapers and Magazines
A.
Purpose.
Funded newspapers and magazines support the command communication requirements of the DoD Components and their subordinate commands. Normally, printing is accomplished by a commercial printer under contract or in government printing facilities in accordance with DoD Directive 5330.3.
1
The editorial content of these publications and distribution are accomplished by the contracting command. Overseas, Funded newspapers are authorized to be printed under contract with the
S
S.
Where printing by
S
S
is not feasible because of distance or other factors, Funded newspapers may be printed by other means. These are evaluated on a case-by-case basis with the cognizant DPS office.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22121.
B.
Name.
The name of the publication may include the name of the command or installation, or, the name of the command or installation may appear separately in the
nameplate (flag). The emblem of the command or installation may be included in the nameplate, also. When possible, the DoD Components and their subordinate levels shall trademark the names of their publications, as stated in § 247.5(d).
C.
Masthead.
The masthead shall include the names of the commanding officer and the PAO, the names and editorial titles of the primary staff of the publication, and the mailing address and telephone number of the editorial staff, in addition to that required in § 247.4(i).
D.
News and editorial materials.
The commander and the public affairs staff shall generate and select news, information, photographs, editorial, and other materials to be used. Authorized news and information sources include the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OASD(PA)), AFIS, the Military Departments, their subordinate levels of command, and other Government Agencies. Civilian community service news and announcements of benefit to personnel assigned to the command or installation and their family members may also be used. Photographic images used will be in compliance with § 247.4(r).
E.
Assignment of personnel.
Military and DoD civilian personnel may not be assigned to duty at the premises of the contract printer to perform any job functions that are part of the business activities or contractual responsibilities of the contract printer. Members of the public affairs staff who produce editorial content may work on the premises as liaison and monitor to specify and coordinate layout and other production details provided for in the command contract with the contract printer. A member of the public affairs staff shall review proof copy to prevent mistakes.
F.
Funding.
The expense of publishing and distributing Funded newspapers and magazines is charged to appropriated funds of the publishing command.
G.
Printing.
Printing of a funded publication shall be handled in accordance with DoD Directive 5330.3 in conjunction with the DoD Component's printing function with public affairs as the office of primary publishing interest. The use of color is authorized if the cognizant commander, the DoD Component's printing function and the PAO determine it enhances communication.
H.
Distribution.
Funded publications may be distributed through official channels. Appropriated funds and manpower may be used for distribution of Funded publications, as required.
I.
Advertising.
Funded publications shall not carry commercial advertising. As a service, the Funded newspaper may carry nonpaid listings of personally owned items and services for sale by members of the command. Noncommercial news stories and announcements concerning nonappropriated fund activities and commissaries may be published in funded publications.
J.
Employment and gratuities.
DoD personnel shall not accept any gratuities from or employment with any GPO-contracted printers in violation of the DoD 5500.7-R,
2
the Joint Ethics Regulation. In addition, DoD personnel whose spouse or children (or other relatives as described in the Joint Ethics Regulation) are offered employment by, or work for, a GPO-contracted printer, must take appropriate action to avoid conflicts of interest.
2
See footnote 1 to section A. of this appendix.
Pt. 247, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 247—CE Publications
A.
Purpose.
CE publications consist of DoD newspapers, magazines, guides, and installation maps. They support command internal communications. The commander or public affairs office provides oversight and final approval authority for the news and editorial content of the publication. CE publishers sell advertising to cover costs and secure earnings, print the publications, and may make all or part of the distribution. Periodically, CE publishers compete for contracts to publish these publications. Neither appropriated nor nonappropriated funds shall be used to pay for any part of a CE publisher's costs incurred in publishing a CE publication.
B.
Name.
The name of the publication may include the name of the command or installation, or the name of the command or installation may appear separately in the nameplate (flag). The emblem of the command or installation may also be included in the nameplate. When possible, the DoD Components and their subordinates shall trademark the names of their publications, as stated in § 247.6(d).
C.
Masthead.
The masthead shall include the following in addition to that required in § 247.4 (i) and (j). “The editorial content of this publication is the responsibility of the (name of command or installation) Public Affairs Office.” The names of the commanding officer and PAO, the names and editorial titles of the staff assigned the duty of preparing the editorial content, and the office address and telephone number of the editorial staff shall be listed in the masthead of DoD newspapers, but is not required in CE guides and installation maps. The names of the publisher and employees of the publisher may be listed separately.
D.
News and editorial materials.
The commander or the public affairs office shall provide oversight and final approval authority for news, information, photographs, editorial, and other materials to be used in a CE publication in the space allotted for that
purpose by written contract with the commercial publisher. Authorized news and information sources include the OASD(PA), AFIS, the Military Departments and their subordinate levels of command, and other Government Agencies. CE contractor personnel may provide material for use in the publication if approved by the commander or PAO, as the commander's representative. Commercial news and opinion sources, such as AP, UPI, New York Times, etc., are not normally authorized for use in DoD publications except as stated in § 247.4(q). Newspapers may publish community service news and announcements of the civilian community for the benefit of command or installation personnel and their families. Imagery used will be in compliance with § 247.4(r).
E.
Assignment of personnel.
Neither military nor DoD civilian personnel shall be assigned to duty at the premises of the CE publisher. Neither military nor DoD civilian personnel shall perform any job functions that are part of the business activities or contractual responsibilities of the CE publisher either at the contractor's facility or the Government facility. The PAO and staff who produce the non-advertising content of the CE publication may perform certain installation liaison functions on publisher premises including monitoring and coordinating layout and design and other publishing details set forth in the contract to ensure the effective presentation of information. One or more members of the public affairs staff shall review proof copy to prevent mistakes. Newspaper text-editing-system pagination and copy terminals owned by the CE publisher may be placed in the command or installation public affairs office under contractual agreement for use by the public affairs staff to coordinate layout and ensure that the preparation of editorial material is performed in such a way as to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the printing and publication functions performed by the CE publisher. All costs of these terminals shall be borne by the CE newspaper publishers who shall retain title to the equipment and full responsibility for any damage to or loss of such equipment. The relationship between the public affairs staff and employees of the CE contractor is that of Government employees working with employees of a private contractor. Supervision of CE employees; that is, the responsibility to rate performance, set rate of pay, grant vacation time, exercise discipline, assign day-to-day administrative tasks, etc., remains with the CE publisher. Any modification of the contract must be made by the responsible contracting officer. Public affairs staff members must be aware that employees of the contractor are not employees of the government and should be treated accordingly.
F.
Distribution of CE publications.
1. A funded newspaper shall not be distributed as an insert to a CE newspaper, unless provided for in the CE contract, nor shall a CE newspaper be distributed as an insert to a funded newspaper.
2. Supplements, clearly labeled as such, and advertising inserts, may be inserted into and distributed with a CE newspaper.
3. The commercial publisher of a CE publication shall make as much of the distribution to the intended readership as possible. CE publications may be distributed through official channels.
4. Except as authorized by the next higher headquarters for special situations or occasions (such as an installation open house), CE publications shall not be distributed outside the intended DoD audience and retirees, which includes family members. Electronic publication on the internet/world wide web is not considered distribution outside the intended DoD audience. The CE publisher may provide complete copies of each specific issue of a CE publication to an advertiser whose advertisement is carried therein.
5. The CE publisher of a CE newspaper will provide the appropriate number of news racks determined by the installation commander for publication distribution.
CE publishers are responsible for maintenance of these racks.
6. CE guides, magazines, and installation maps may be delivered in bulk quantities to the appropriate installation offices to distribute these publications through official channels as necessary.
G.
Responsibilities regarding advertising.
1. Only the CE publisher shall use the space agreed upon for advertising. While the editorial content of the publication is completely controlled by the installation, the advertising section, including its content, is the responsibility of the CE publisher. The public affairs staff, however, retains the responsibility to review advertisements before they are printed.
2. Any decision by a CE publisher to accept or reject an advertisement is final. The PAO may discuss with a publisher their decision not to run an advertisement, but cannot substitute his judgment for that of the publisher.
3. Before each issue of a CE publication is printed, the public affairs staff shall review advertisements to identify any that are contrary to law or to DoD or Military Service regulations, including this part, or that may pose a danger or detriment to DoD personnel or their family members, or that interfere with the command or installation missions. It is in the command's best interest to carefully apply DoD and Service regulations and request exclusion of only those advertisements that are clearly in violation of this part. If any such advertisements are identified, the public affairs office shall obtain a legal coordination of the proposed exclusion.
After coordination, the public affairs office shall request, in writing if necessary, that the commercial publisher delete any such advertisements. If the publisher prints the issue containing the objectionable advertisement(s), the commander may prohibit distribution in accordance with DoD Directive 1325.6.
1
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
4. DoD Directive 1325.6 gives the commander authority to prohibit distribution on the installation of a CE publication containing advertising he or she determines likely to promote a situation leading to potential riots or other disturbances, or when the circulation of such advertising may present a danger to loyalty, discipline, or morale of personnel. Each commander shall determine whether particular advertisements to be placed by the publisher in a CE publication serving the command or installation may interfere with successful mission performance. Some considerations in this decision are the local situation, the content of the proposed advertisement, and the past performance of the advertiser. Prior to making a determination to prohibit distribution of a CE publication, the commander shall obtain a legal coordination.
5. CE publications may carry paid and nonpaid advertising of the products and services of nonappropriated fund activities and commissaries, if allowed by DoD and Military Service regulations. (See DoD Instruction 1015.2
2
)
2
See footnote 1 to section G.3. of this appendix.
6. The Military Departments will coordinate a standard set or ratios of advertising-to-editorial copy for multiples of pages for run of the publication advertising in CE publications that will be included in all DoD Component regulations supplementing this part. The recommended annual average is a ratio of 60/40. Inserts and advertising supplements will not count in the total ad-to-copy ratio; However, the commander may prohibit the distribution of supplemental advertising deemed excessive.
7. Bingo games and lotteries conducted by a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries may not be advertised in CE publications. Non-lottery activities (such as dining at a restaurant or attending a musical performance) of a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries may be advertised in CE publications. Exceptions are allowed for authorized State lotteries, lotteries conducted by a not-for-profit organization or a governmental organization, or conducted as a promotional activity by a commercial organization and clearly occasional and ancillary to the primary business of that organization. An exception also pertains to any gaming conducted by an Indian tribe under 25 U.S.C. 2720. See section D. of appendix C to this part.
H.
CE guides and maps.
1. The name of the publication may include the name and emblem of the command or installation.
2. At the discretion of the commander, an installation telephone directory may be included as a section of a CE guide. The telephone section shall be part of the guide contract specifications. Separate contracts for CE telephone directories are not authorized. Over-run printing of the telephone directory/yellow pages section of the installation guide is authorized. The number of guides with integral telephone directories and the number of over-run copies of the telephone directory/yellow pages will be clearly specified in the single guide contract. Required communication security information shall be printed on the first page of the telephone section and not on the cover of the guide. The cover of the guide may notify users that the publication contains the telephone directory.
3. CE contracts for guides and maps shall establish firm delivery dates and shall contain provisions to ensure distribution is controlled by the command. Delivery dates may vary for guides and maps to make them more attractive to advertisers. The contract provisions shall specify delivery dates.
I.
Employment and gratuities.
DoDpersonnel shall not accept any gratuities from or employment with any CE publisher in violation of DoD Directive 5500.7-R.
3
In addition, DoD personnel whose spouse or children (or other relations as described in DoD Directive 5500.7-R) are offered employment by, or work for, a CE publisher, must take appropriate action to avoid conflicts of interest.
3
See footnote 1 to section G.3. of this appendix.
J.
Contracting for a CE publication.
1.
General.
The DoD Components and their subordinate commands are authorized to contract in writing for CE publications. The underlying premise of the CE concept is that the DoD Components and their subordinate commands will save money by transferring certain publishing and distribution functions to a commercial publisher selected through a competitive process. The CE publication is printed and delivered to the command, installation, or its readership in accordance with the terms of a written contract. Oral contracts are not acceptable. The right to sell and circulate advertising to the complete readership in the CE publication provides the publisher revenue to cover costs
and secure earnings. The command or installation guarantees first publication and distribution of locally-produced editorial content in the publication. The publication becomes the property of the command, installation, or intended reader upon delivery in accordance with terms of the contract.
2.
Contracting process.
Whether a first time initiative to establish a CE publication or a recompetition of an existing CE contract, the process must start with advance planning as to the nature of the command's requirements, the contracting strategy, and the market of potential advertisers and competitors for the job. The CE contract solicitation and the contract itself must contain a statement of work that describes in legally sufficient detail the Government's requirements and the conditions and restrictions under which the contractor will perform. The cognizant contracting office for the CE contracting action shall be the contracting office which normally provides contracting support to the command for service contracts and other procurements of a general nature which are above the simplified small purchase threshold. The contracting officer shall combine the statement of work with appropriate contractual terms and conditions, using 48 CFR chapter I and II as guides, although CE contracts are not subject to the FAR or DFARS, because they do not involve the expenditure of appropriated funds. The resulting solicitation and contract shall completely identify the rights and obligations of both parties. Proposals shall be solicited from all known commercial publishers who could potentially become the CE contractor. Upon evaluation of the competing proposals by the Source Selection Advisory Committee (SSAC) and selection of a winner by the selecting official, the CE contract shall be awarded by the contracting officer. The CE contract shall not require the contractor to pay money to the command or to provide goods, services, or other consideration not directly related to the CE publication. In the event that only one offer is received, the SSAC may recommend to the selecting official that no award be made or that the contracting officer enter into negotiations with the sole offeror to obtain the best possible service and product for the Government.
3.
Statement of Work (SOW).
The SOW should be written to have the CE contractor perform as many of the publishing and distribution functions as practical to generate maximum savings to the Department of Defense. In so doing, care must be taken to balance Government requirements with a realistic view of the advertising revenue potential so as to achieve a contract that is commercially viable. The command's internal information needs shall be paramount. Some of the key issues that shall be addressed in the SOW follow:
a. A general description of the scope of the proposed contract including the name and nature of the publication involved; for example, weekly newspaper, monthly magazine, annual guide and installation map. Normally, guides and installation maps are included in the same contract.
b. A description of editorial content to be carried; e.g., news, features, supplements, and factual information, along with provisions addressing the possible inclusion of contractor-furnished advertising supplements for newspapers, provided any such supplement shall have the prior approval of the commander.
c. A description of the rules for the inclusion of advertising in the publication, substantially as follows: “The contractor agrees not to include in the publication any advertising of the following types: (1) paid political advertisements for a candidate, party, or which advocate a particular position on a political issue, including advertisements advocating a position on any proposed DoD policy or policy under review, or which advocate lobbying elected officials on a specific issue; (2) advertisements for any establishment declared “off limits” by the command; (3) advertisements that are contrary to law or to DoD or Military Service regulations or that in the government's opinion pose a danger or detriment to DoD personnel or their family members, or that interfere with the command or installation missions; (4) advertisements for bingo games or lotteries conducted by a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries; (5) (other restrictions deemed appropriate by the Service/command, if any.)” Additionally, the contract will contain provisions which: (1) specify the annual average advertising-to-editorial ratio for newspapers and magazines; (2) state that the commander's representative shall have the authority to specify newspaper advertising layout when required to enhance communication's effectiveness of the publication; and (3) which requires the contractor to notify advertisers of the requirements in § 247.4(i) and § 247.4(j).
d. A provision substantially as follows: “The contractor agrees not to enter into any exclusive advertising agreement with any firm, broker, or individual for the purpose of selling advertising associated with this contract.”
e. A description of the CE contractor's responsibilities for distribution of the publication. This provision should address such matters as contractor furnishing of news racks along with contractor responsibility for maintenance of these racks.
f. A description of contractor-owned and/or contractor-furnished equipment such as text editing, copy terminals, and modems determined to be required to coordinate layout and ensure that the preparation of editorial
material is performed in such a way as to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the publication process.
g. A description of contractor-furnished editorial support services determined to be required. Such description must be in terms of the end product required; e.g., photography service and/or writer/reporter services, and not as a requirement to make available certain contractor personnel. In day-to-day performance and administration of the CE contract, contractor personnel performing such support services shall not be treated in any way as though they are Government employees.
h. A provision that the use, where economically feasible, of recycled paper for internal products will be a consideration for awarding the contract, as stated in § 247.6 (e).
i. SOW's and RFP's for CE newspapers shall specify standard newsprint, recyclable, subject to requirements of applicable laws and regulations.
j. For CE magazines, a provision requiring the contractor to provide a bulk number of copies of each printing to the Government Printing Office (GPO) for distribution to Federal Depository Libraries. The number of copies to be provided will be determined on the number of libraries desiring to subscribe to the publication. The number could be a maximum of 1,400, but has historically averaged approximately 500 to 600 copies for military magazines. The contractor would be required to contact GPO to initiate this procedure at (202) 512-1071.
4.
Contract provisions.
The CE concept is based on an exception to the Government Printing and Binding Regulations
4
published by the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing. While CE contracts are not subject to the FAR (48 CFR chapter I) or the DFARS (48 CFR chapter II), the FAR contains many clauses that are useful in protecting the interests of the Government. The following clauses may be helpful in obtaining the best possible CE publication:
4
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
a.
Status of FAR clause.
To clarify the status of FAR clauses appearing in CE contracts, the following clause shall be included in all new CE contracts:
“The (name of DoD installation/unit/organization) is an element of the United States Government. This agreement is a United States Government contract authorized under the provisions of DoD Instruction 5120.4
5
as an exception to the Government Printing and Binding Regulations published by the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing. Although this contract is not subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) or the Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), FAR clauses useful in protecting the interests of the Government and implementing those provisions required by law are included in this contract.”
5
See footnote 1 to section G.3. of this appendix.
b.
Option clause.
Insert a clause substantially the same as the following to extend the term of the CE publisher contract:
(1) “The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the contractor within [insert in the clause the period of time in which the contracting officer has to exercise the option]; provided that the Government shall give the contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to exercise the option at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the government to exercise the option.” In the case of base closure or realignment the publisher has the right to request a renegotiation of the contract.
(2) “If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option provision.”
(3) “The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 6 years.”
c.
Default clause.
Insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts:
(1) “The Government may, by written notice of default to the contractor, terminate this contract in whole or in part if the contractor fails to:
(a) Deliver the CE publications in the quantities required or to perform the services within the time specified in this contract or any extension;
(b) Make progress, so as to endanger performance of this contract;
(c) Perform any of the other provisions of this contract.”
(2) “If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part, it may acquire, under the terms and in the manner the contracting officer considers appropriate, supplies or services similar to those terminated. However, the contractor shall continue the work not terminated.”
(3) “The rights and remedies of the Government in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.”
d.
Termination for convenience of the Government.
Insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts:
“The contracting officer, by written notice, may terminate this contract, in whole or in part if the services contracted for are no longer required by the Government, or when it is in the Government's interest, such as with installation closures. Any such termination shall be at no cost to the Government.” The Government will use its best efforts to mitigate financial hardship on the publisher.
5.
Term of contract.
CE contracts may be entered into for an initial period of up to 2 years, and may contain options to extend the contract for one or more additional periods of 1 or 2 years duration. The total period of the contract, including options, shall not exceed 6 years, after which the contract must be recompeted.
6.
Exercise of options.
Under normal circumstances, when the contractor is performing satisfactorily, options for additional periods of performance should be exercised. However, the exercise of the option is the exclusive right of the Government.
7.
Modification of the contract.
Any changes to the SOW or other terms and conditions of the contract shall be made by written contract modification signed by both parties.
8.
SSAC.
The commander shall appoint an SSAC. The committee shall participate in the development of the Source Selection Plan (SSP) before the solicitation of proposals, evaluate proposals, and recommend a source to the selecting official. Since cost is not a factor in the evaluation, award will be based on technical proposals, the offeror's experience and/or qualifications, and past performance.
a. The SSAC shall consist of a minimum of five voting members: a chairperson, who shall be a senior member of the command; senior representatives from public affairs and printing; and a minimum of two other functional specialists with skills relevant to the selection process. Each SSAC shall have non-voting legal and contracting advisors to assist in the selection process.
b. In arriving at its recommendations, the SSAC shall follow the SSP and avail itself of all relevant information, including the proposals submitted, independently derived data regarding offerors' performance records, the results of on-site surveys of offerors' facilities, where feasible, and in appropriate cases, personal presentations by offerors.
c. The work of the SSAC must be coordinated with the contracting officer to ensure that the process is objective and fair. All communications between the offerors and the Government shall be through the contracting officer. No member of the SSAC or the selecting official shall communicate directly with any offeror regarding the source selection.
d. In cases where a losing competitor requests a debriefing from the contracting officer, members of the SSAC may be called upon to participate so as to give the losing competitor the most thorough explanation practical as to why its proposal was not successful. No information regarding competitors' proposals shall be discussed with the unsuccessful offerors during debriefings, discussions, or negotiations.
9.
SSP.
A SSP (see sample SSP at attachment 1 to this appendix) must be developed early in the planning process to serve as a guide for the personnel involved and ensure a fair and objective process and a successful outcome. The contracting officer is primarily responsible for development of the SSP, in coordination with the PAO and other members of the SSAC. Ideally, the SSP should be completed and approved prior to issuance of the solicitation; it must be completed and approved before the receipt of proposals.
10.
Evaluation criteria and proposal requirements.
The solicitation must specify, in relative order of importance, the factors the Government will consider in selecting the most advantageous proposal. In addition, the solicitation must specify the types of information the proposal must contain to be properly evaluated. These two aspects of the solicitation must closely parallel one another. The contracting officer is primarily responsible for development of these two solicitation provisions, in coordination with the PAO, legal counsel, and members of the SSAC.
a.
Evaluation criteria for award.
Drawing upon the SSP, this feature of the solicitation must advise offerors what factors the Government will consider in evaluating proposals and the relative importance of each factor. The sample SSP (attachment 1 to this appendix) provides an example of criteria that might be used. Note that under the “Services and/or Items Offered” factor, paragraph E.2.b. of attachment 1 to this appendix, it is necessary to list and indicate the relative importance of services and/or items
above the minimum requirements of the SOW
that the command would consider desirable and that, if offered, will enhance the offeror's evaluation standing. The offer of services and/or items not listed in the evaluation criteria shall not be considered in the evaluation of proposals, but may be accepted in the contract award if deemed valuable to the Government, PROVIDED the service and/or item involved is directly related to producing the publication and not in violation of any other statute or regulation. Examples of items that cannot be considered during the evaluation process are; press kits, laminated maps, economic development reports, or other separate publications not an integral part of the CE publication.
b.
Proposal requirements.
This provision of the solicitation must describe the specific and general types of information necessary to be submitted as part of the proposal to be evaluated. Offerors shall be notified that unnecessarily elaborate proposals are not desired.

# Attachment 1 to Appendix B to Part 247—SSP

# A. Introduction
1. The objectives of this plan are:
a. To ensure an impartial, equitable, and thorough evaluation of all offerors' proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria presented in the request for proposals (RFP).
b. To ensure that the contracting officer is provided technical evaluation findings of the SSAC in such a manner that selection of the offer most advantageous to the Government is ensured.
c. To document clearly and thoroughly all aspects of the evaluation and decision process to provide effective debriefings to unsuccessful offerors, to respond to legal challenges to the selection, and to ensure adherence to evaluation criteria.
2. This plan will be used to select a CE contractor for publication of the ____________________ newspaper (CE guide, magazine, or installation map) and will:
a. Give each SSAC member a clear understanding of his or her responsibilities as well as a complete overview of the evaluation process.
b. Establish a well-balanced evaluation structure, equitable and uniform scoring procedures, and a thorough and accurate appraisal of all considerations pertinent to the negotiated contracting process.
c. Provide the selecting official with meaningful findings that are clearly presented and founded on the collective, independent judgment of technical and managerial experts.
d. Ensure identification and selection of a contractor whose final proposal offers optimum satisfaction of the Government's technical and managerial requirements as expressed in the RFP.
e. Serve as part of the official record for the evaluation process.

# B. Organization and Staffing
1. The SSAC will consist of the Chairperson and a minimum of four other voting committee members plus the non-voting advisors to the SSAC.
2. The SSAC committee members are:
Name
Position
Chairperson
Member
Member
Member
Member
Legal
Advisor
1
Contract
Advisor
1
1
Non-voting members.

# C. Responsibilities
1. Selecting Official:
a. Approves the SSP.
b. Reviews the evaluation and findings of the SSAC.
c. Considers the SSAC's recommendation of award.
d. Selects the successful offeror.
2. Chairperson of the Source Selection Advisory Committee (C/SSAC):
a. Reviews the SSP.
b. Approves membership of the SSAC.
c. Analyzes the evaluation and findings of the SSAC and applies weights to the evaluation results.
d. Approves the SSAC report for submission to the selecting official.
3. Contracting Officer:
a. Is responsible for the proper and efficient conduct of the entire source selection process encompassing solicitation, evaluation, selection, and contract award.
b. Provides SSAC and the selecting official with guidance and instructions to conduct the evaluation and selection process.
c. Receives proposals submitted and makes them available to the SSAC, taking necessary precautions to ensure against premature or unauthorized disclosure of source selection information.
4. SSAC members shall:
a. Familiarize themselves with the RFP and SSP.
b. Provide a fair and impartial review and evaluation of each proposal against the solicitation requirements and evaluation criteria.
c. Provide written documentation substantiating their evaluations to include strengths, weaknesses, and any deficiencies of each proposal.
5. Legal advisor:
a. Reviews RFP and SSP for form and legality.
b. Advises the SSAC members of their duties and responsibilities, regarding procurement integrity issues and confidentiality requirements.
c. Participate in SSAC meetings and provide legal advice as required.
d. Provides legal review of all documents supporting the selection decision to ensure legal sufficiency and consistency with the evaluation criteria in the RFP and SSP.
e. Advises the selecting official on the legality of the selection decision.

# D. Administrative Instructions
1.
Evaluation overview.
The advisory committee will operate with maximum flexibility. Collective discussion by evaluators at committee meetings of their evaluation findings is permitted in the interchange of viewpoints regarding strengths, weaknesses, and deficiencies noted in the proposals relating to evaluation items. Evaluators will not suggest or disclose numerical scores or other information regarding the relative standing of offerors outside of committee meetings.
2.
Evaluation procedure.
The evaluation of offers is based on good judgment and a thorough knowledge of the guidelines and criteria applicable to each evaluation factor.
a. Numerical scoring is merely reflective of the composite findings of the SSAC. The evaluation scoring system is used as a tool
to assist the Chairperson of the SSAC in determining the proposal most advantageous to the Government.
b. The most important documents supporting the contract award will be the findings, conclusions, and reports of the SSAC.
3.
Safeguarding data.
The sensitivity of the proceedings and documentation require stringent and special safeguards throughout the evaluation process:
a. Inadvertent release of information could be a source of considerable misunderstanding and embarrassment to the Government. It is imperative, therefore, for all members of the SSAC to avoid any unauthorized disclosures of information pertaining to this evaluation. Evaluation participants will observe the following rules:
(1) All offeror and evaluation materials will be secured when not in use (i.e., during breaks, lunch, and at the end of the day).
(2) All attempted communications by offeror's representatives shall be directed to the contracting officer. No communications between members of the SSAC or the selecting official and offerors regarding the contract award or evaluation is permitted except when called upon under the provisions of paragraph J.8.d, of appendix B to this part.
(3) Neither SSAC members or the selecting official shall disclose anything pertaining to the source selection process to any offeror except as authorized by the contracting officer.
(4) Neither SSAC members or the selecting official shall discuss the substantive issues of the evaluation with any unauthorized individual, even after award of the contract.

# E. Technical Evaluation Procedures
1.
Evaluation process.
Proposals will be evaluated based on the following criteria as indicated in Section M of the solicitation: The evaluation worksheet (attachment 2 to this appendix) shall be used to score the technical factors. Using the technical evaluation worksheet, each member of the SSAC will independently review each proposal and assign an appropriate number of points to each factor being considered. Point scores for each factor will range from “0” to “5” based on the committee member's evaluation of the proposal. Upon completion of individual evaluations, the group will meet in committee with the Chairperson and arrive at a single numeric score for each factor in the proposal.
2.
Criteria.
An example of applicable evaluation criteria and their relative order of importance are listed below in paragraphs E.2. a. through d. of this appendix. Criteria and weights are provided as an example only. The SSAC must determine its own weighting factors tailored to meet the needs of the particular CE publication and describe the relative weights assigned in the RFP; e.g., “Evaluation factors are listed in descending order of importance; criteria #1 is twice as important as criteria #2,” etc.
a.
Technical and production capability.
Scores will range from “0” (unacceptable), to “5” (exhibits state-of-the-art, award winning, or clearly superior technical ability to produce the required newspaper, magazine, guide, or installation map). Factors to be considered for newspaper contracts include: level of automation; compatibility of automation with existing PAO automation (unless other automation is provided); printing capability; production equipment; physical plant (capabilities); and driving distance to the plant. Similar factors may be considered for magazines, guides and installation maps.
b.
Services and/or items offered.
Scores will range from “0” (unacceptable), to “5” (the offer of equipment, such as automation equipment; or services, such as editorial or photographic services as set forth in the contract solicitation that will greatly enhance the newspaper and/or its production). Factors to be considered for newspapers include: offer of automation equipment and the quality and amount of equipment offered; the quality and amount of services offered; the usefulness of the services and/or items to the public affairs office in enhancing the newspaper; the impact of the services and/or items on other parts of the contract. Similar factors may be considered for magazines, guides and installation maps. The offer of equipment or services not specifically related to producing the publication will not result in the assignment of a higher score.
c.
Past performance record.
Scores will range from “0” (no experience in newspaper, magazine, guide, or installation map publishing and/or unsatisfactory, previous performance), to “5” (long-term, highly successful experience publishing similar newspapers, magazines, guides, or installation maps). Factors to be considered include: demonstrated ability to successfully produce a CE or similar publication; demonstrated printing ability (types of printing, history of newspaper, magazine, guide, or installation map printing); demonstrated success in contract performance in a timely and responsive manner; demonstrated capability to sell advertising and successfully recoup publication costs.
d.
Management approach.
Scores will range from “0” (approach unacceptable), to “5” (proposal demonstrates a sound and innovative approach to interfacing with the PAO and managing the CE publication operation). Factors to be considered include: The offeror's proposed approach to:
(1) Interfacing with the PAO staff.
(2) Controlling the quality and timeliness of the finished product.
(3) Sale of ads of the type that enhance the publication's image in the community and with the readership at large.
(4) Ensuring that contractor's personnel are properly supervised and managed.
3.
Weighting factors.
Points will be assigned to the final score of each factor in a proposal as determined by multiplying the score assigned (e.g., “0,” “1,” “2,” “3,” “4,” or “5”) by the relative weight of the individual criterion as indicated:
Factor
Relative weight (percent)
Maximum points
CRITERION 1
40
200
CRITERION 2
30
150
CRITERION 3
20
100
CRITERION 4
10
50
500
(EXAMPLE ONLY):
CRITERION 1: Score 5 (5 × 40), Total Points
200
CRITERION 1: Score 4 (4 × 30), Total Points
120
CRITERION 1: Score 3 (3 × 20), Total Points
60
CRITERION 1: Score 2 (2 × 10), Total Points
20
400
4.
Report of findings and recommendations.
After the SSAC has completed final evaluation of proposals and all weighting has been completed, the committee will prepare a written report of its findings and recommendations, setting forth the consensus of the committee and its composite scores (Sample at attachment 3 to this appendix). The Chairperson will sign the report to confirm its accuracy and his agreement with the recommendation. All copies of proposals and evaluation worksheets will be returned to the contracting officer.

# Attachment 2 to Appendix B to Part 247—Sample Evaluation Worksheet
CONTRACTOR
EVALUATOR
DATE
EVALUATION CRITERIA AND SCORES (RANGE 0-5 POINTS FOR EACH)
1. Technical and production
capability:
2. Services and items
offered:
3. Past performance
record:
4. Management
approach:
NARRATIVE DISCUSSION:
1
(
1
Discussions of strengths, weaknesses, and deficiencies should reference the specific evaluation factor involved to ensure that proposals are evaluated only against the criterion set forth in the RFP, to facilitate debriefings, and to provide an effective defense to any challenges regarding the legality of the selection process.)
Strengths
Weaknesses
Deficiencies

# Attachment 3 to Appendix B to Part 247—Sample Memorandum for Selecting Official
SUBJECT: Evaluation of Proposals
RFP No.
1. All proposals received in response to subject RFP have been evaluated by the Source Selection Advisory Committee (SSAC). The results and comments are listed below.
a. Offeror's proposals were rated as follows:
Offeror Name Numerical Score
b. Summary Narrative Comments.
(This section of the report shall be a summary of the individual strengths and weaknesses in each proposal, along with any deficiencies that are susceptible to being cured through written or oral discussions with the offeror, as noted by the SSC evaluators. This summary should be supported by detailed narratives contained on the individual evaluator's worksheets.)
2. Recommendation.
Chairperson, SSAC
Pt. 247, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 247—Mailing of DoD Newspapers, Magazines, CE Guides, and Installation Maps; Sales and Distribution of Non-DoD Publications
A.
Policy.
It is DoD policy that mailing costs shall be kept at a minimum consistent with timeliness and applicable postal regulations. (See DoD Instruction 4525.7
1
and DoD 4525.8-M.
2
Responsible officials shall consult with appropriate postal authorities to obtain resolution of specific problems.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
2
See footnote 1 to section A. of this appendix.
B.
Definition.
DoD appropriated fund postage includes all means of paying postage using funds appropriated for the Department of Defense. These means include meter imprints and stamps, permit imprints, postage stamps, and other means authorized by the U.S. Postal Service.
C.
Use of appropriated fund postage.
1. DoD appropriated fund postage shall be used only for:
a. Mailing copies to satisfy mandatory distribution requirements.
b. Mailing copies to other public affairs offices for administrative purposes.
c. Mailing copies to headquarters in the chain of command.
d. Bulk mailings of DoD newspapers and magazines to subordinate units for distribution to members of the units.
e. Mailing information copies to other U.S. Government Agencies, Members of Congress, libraries, hospitals, schools, and depositories.
f. Mailing of an individual copy of a DoD newspaper, magazine, or CE publication in response to an unsolicited request from a private person, firm, or organization, if such response is in the best interest of the DoD Component or its subordinate levels of command.
g. Mailing copies of DoD newspapers, magazines, guides, or installation maps to incoming DoD personnel and their families to orient them to their new command, installation, and community.
2. DoD appropriated fund postage shall not be used for mailing:
a. To the general readership of DoD newspapers, magazines, guides, and installation maps, unless specifically excepted in this part.
b. By a CE publisher.
c. CE publications other than newspapers and magazines in bulk. (See paragraph C.1.d. of this section).
3. Generally, DoD newspapers, magazines, and CE publications shall be mailed as second class Requester Publication Rate, third-class bulk, or third- or fourth-class mail.
D.
Legal prohibitions.
Compliance with 18 U.S.C., 1302 and 1307 is mandatory. 18 USC Section 1302 prohibits the mailing of publications containing advertisements of any type of lottery or scheme that is based on lot or chance. 18 USC 1307 authorizes exceptions pertaining to authorized State lotteries, lotteries conducted by a not-for-profit organization or a governmental organization, or conducted as a promotional activity by a commercial organization and clearly occasional and ancillary to the primary business of that organization. An exception also pertains to any gaming conducted by an Indian tribe under 25 U.S.C. 2720. Lottery is defined as containing the following three elements:
1. Prize (whatever items of value are offered in the particular game).
2. Chance (random selection of numbers to produce a winning combination).
3. Consideration (requirement to pay a fee to play).
E.
Review of mailing and distribution effectiveness.
1. Mailing and distribution lists shall be reviewed annually to determine distribution effectiveness and continuing need of each recipient to receive the publication.
2. Distribution techniques, target audiences, readers-per-copy ratios, and use of the U.S. Postal Service to ensure the most economical use of mail services consistent with timeliness shall be revalidated annually.
F.
Non-DoD publications.
A commander shall afford reputable distributors of other publications the opportunity to sell or give away publications at the activity he or she commands in accordance with DoD Directive 1325.6.
3
Such publications shall not be distributed through official channels. These publications may be made available through subscription paid for by the recipient or placed in specific general use areas designated by the commander, such as the foyers of open messes or exchanges. They will be placed only in stands or racks provided by the responsible publisher. The responsible publisher will maintain the stand or rack to present a neat and orderly appearance. Subscriptions paid for by a recipient may be home-delivered by the commercial distributor in installation residential areas.
3
See footnote 1 to section A. of this appendix.
Pt. 247, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 247—AFIS Print Media Directorate
A.
General.
The Print Media Directorate (PMD), an element of AFIS, develops, publishes, and distributes a variety of print media products that support DoD-wide programs and policies for targeted audiences throughout the DoD community. Products include the following:
1.
American Forces Press Service,
news and feature articles, photographs, and art targeted principally to editors of DoD newspapers.
2.
DEFENSE
magazine, a bimonthly magazine featuring articles authored by senior military and civilian officials on DoD programs and policies. An annual almanac edition highlights DoD's organization and statistical information.
3.
Defense Billboard,
a monthly poster featuring topics of particular interest to junior Military Service members, but applicable to general DoD audiences.
4. Pamphlets, booklets, and other posters covering a variety of joint interest information topics.
5. PMD posts the
Press Service
on Military Service computer bulletin boards and internet world wide web sites. PAOs and editors may download text and art in a form readily usable for word processing or desktop publishing. All other PMD publications should be requisitioned through the Military Service's or organization's publications distribution system.
6. Additional information may be obtained on the internet using the AFIS Uniform Resource Locator:
http://www.dtic.mil/defenselink/afis/.
B.
Use of materials published by print media directorate.
With the exception of copyrighted matter, all materials published by PMD may be reproduced or adapted for use by DoD newspaper and magazine editors as appropriate. When PMD material is edited or revised, accuracy and conformance to DoD policy and accepted standards of good taste will be maintained. Due to the policy-oriented nature of
DEFENSE
magazine contents, particular care shall be taken to preserve the original context, tone, and meaning of any material adapted, revised, or edited from this publication.
C.
Eligible activities.
The following activities are eligible to receive the above listed PMD products:
1. All authorized DoD newspapers and magazines.
2. Headquarters of the DoD Components and their subordinate commands.
3. Proponent offices of DoD periodicals published by the DoD Components.
4. Armed Forces Radio and Television Service networks and outlets.
5. Isolated commands and detachments at which DoD newspapers are not readily available.
Pt. 247, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 247—DoD Command Newspaper and Magazine Review System
A.
Purpose.
The purpose of the DoD command newspaper and magazine review system is to assist commanders in establishing and maintaining cost-effective internal communications essential to mission accomplishment. The system also enables internal information managers to assess the cost and effective use of resources devoted to command newspapers and to provide requested reports.
B.
Policy.
DoD newspapers and magazines shall be reviewed and reported biennially. The review process is not intended to replace day-to-day quality assurance procedures or established critique programs.
C.
Review criteria.
Each newspaper and magazine shall be evaluated on the basis of mission essentiality, communication effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and compliance with applicable regulations.
D. Reporting requirements.
1. The DoD Components (less the Military Departments) shall forward, by January 31 of each even numbered year, the information indicated at attachment 1 to this appendix for each newspaper published to: Director, American Forces Information Service, ATTN: Print Media Plans and Policy, 601 North Fairfax Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-2007.
2. No later than April 15 of each even-numbered year, the Secretary (or designee) of each Military Department shall forward to the address above a report of the Military Department's review of newspapers and magazines. This report shall include summary data on total number of newspapers and magazines, along with a listing of the information indicated at attachment 1 to this appendix.
3. One information copy of each issue of all DoD newspapers and magazines shall be forwarded on publication date to the address in paragraph H.1. of this appendix.
4. Information copies of CE contracts shall be forwarded to the address in paragraph H.1. of this appendix, upon request.
5. Administrative Instructions shall be issued by the Director, AFIS, for the annual review and reporting of newspapers and magazines.

# Attachment 1 to Appendix E to Part 247—Newspaper and Magazine Reporting Data
As required by section H. of this appendix, the following information shall be provided biennially regarding newspapers and magazines:
A. Name of newspaper or magazine.
B. Publishing command and mailing address.
C. Printing arrangement:
1. Government equipment.
2. Government contract with commercial printer.
3. CE contract with commercial publisher (provide name, mailing address, and phone number of commercial publisher).
D. Frequency and number of issues per year.
E. Number of copies printed and estimated readership.
F. Paper size (metro, tabloid, or magazine format).
Pt. 250

# PART 250—WITHHOLDING OF UNCLASSIFIED TECHNICAL DATA FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Sec.
250.1
Purpose.
250.2
Applicability and scope.
250.3
Definitions.
250.4
Policy.
250.5
Procedures.
250.6
Responsibilities.
250.7
Pertinent portions of Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
250.8
Pertinent portions of International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).
250.9
Notice to accompany the dissemination of export-controlled technical data.

# Authority:
Sec. 1217, Pub. L. 98-94, (10 U.S.C. 140c).

# Source:
49 FR 48041, Dec. 10, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, prescribes procedures, and assigns responsibilities for the dissemination and withholding of technical data.
§ 250.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part applies to:
(1) All unclassified technical data with military or space application in the possession of, or under the control of, a DoD Component which may not be exported lawfully without an approval, authorization, or license under E.O. 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act. However, the application of this part is limited only to such technical data that disclose critical technology with military or space application. The release of other technical data shall be accomplished in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.21 and DoD 5400.7-R.
(2) The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and activities support administratively by OSD, the Military Departments, the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Defense Agencies, and the Unified and Specified Commands (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).
(b) This part does not:
(1) Modify or supplant the regulations promulgated under E.O. 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act governing the export of technical data, that is, 15 CFR part 379 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and 22 CFR part 125 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).
(2) Introduce any additional controls on the dissemination of technical data by private enterprises or individuals beyond those specified by export control laws and regulations or in contracts or other mutual agreements, including certifications made pursuant to § 250.3(a). Accordingly, the mere fact that the Department of Defense may possess such data does not in itself provide a basis for control of such data pursuant to this part.
(3) Introduce any controls on the dissemination of scientific, educational, or other data that qualify for General License GTDA under 15 CFR 379.3 of the EAR (see § 250.7) or for general exemptions under 22 CFR 125.11 of the ITAR (see § 250.8).
(4) Alter the responsibilities of DoD Components to protect proprietary data of a private party in which the Department of Defense has “limited rights” or “restricted rights” (as defined in 32 CFR 9-201(c) and 9-601(j) of the DoD Acquisition Regulation, or which are authorized to be withheld from public disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(5) Pertain to, or affect, the release of technical data by DoD Components to foreign governments, international organizations, or their respective representatives or contractors, pursuant to official agreements or formal arrangements with the U.S. Government, or pursuant to U.S. Government-licensed transactions involving such entities or individuals. In the absence of such U.S. Government-sanctioned relationships, however, this part does apply.
(6) Apply to classified technical data. After declassification, however, dissemination of such data that are within the scope of § 250.2(a)(1) is governed by this part.
§ 250.3
Definitions.
(a)
Qualified U.S. contractor.
1
A private individual or enterprise (hereinafter described as a “U.S. contractor”) that, in accordance with procedures established by the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, certifies, as a condition of obtaining export-controlled technical data subject to this Directive from the Department of Defense, that:
1
Canadian contractors may be qualified in accordance with this part for technical data that do not require a license for export to Canada under 22 CFR 125.12 of the ITAR and 15 CFR 379.4(d) and 379.5(e) of the EAR submitting an equivalent certification to the U.S. Department of Defense.
(1) The individual who will act as recipient of the export-controlled technical data on behalf of the U.S. contractor is a U.S. citizen or a person admitted lawfully into the United States for permanent residence and is located in the United States.
(2) Such data are needed to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of Defense, or other U.S. Government agency, or for other legitimate business purposes
2
in which the U.S. contractor is engaged, or plans to engage. The purpose for which the data are needed shall be described sufficiently in such certification to permit an evaluation of whether subsequent requests for data, pursuant to § 250.5(d)(2) are related properly to such business purpose.
2
This does not require a contract with or a grant from the U.S. Government.
(3) The U.S. contractor acknowledges its responsibilities under U.S. export control laws and regulations (including the obligation, under certain circumstances, to obtain an export license prior to the release of technical data within the United States) and agrees that it will not disseminate any export-controlled technical data subject to this part in a manner that would violate applicable export control laws and regulations.
(4) The U.S. contractor also agrees that, unless dissemination is permitted by § 250.5(h), it will not provide access to export-controlled technical data subject to this part to persons other than its employees or persons acting on its behalf, without the permission of the DoD Component that provided the technical data.
(5) To the best of its knowledge and belief, the U.S. contractor knows of no person employed by it, or acting on its behalf, who will have access to such data, who is debarred, suspended, or otherwise ineligible from performing on U.S. Government contracts; or has violated U.S. export control laws or a certification previously made to the Department of Defense under the provisions of this part.
(6) The U.S. contractor itself is not debarred, suspended, or otherwise determined ineligible by any agency of the U.S. Government to perform on U.S. Government contracts, has not been convicted of export control law violations, and has not been disqualified under the provisions of this part. When the certifications required by paragraphs (a) (5) and (6) of this section, cannot be made truthfully, the U.S. contractor may request the certification be accepted based on its description of extenuating circumstances.
(b)
Controlling DoD Office.
The DoD activity that sponsored the work that generated the technical data or received the technical data on behalf of the Department of Defense and therefore has the responsibility for determining the distribution of a document containing such technical data. In the case of joint sponsorship, the controlling office is determined by advance agreement and may be either a party, a group, or a committee representing the interested activities or DoD Components. (The controlling DoD office is identified on each export-controlled document in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.24.
(c)
Critical Technology.
Technologies that consist of (1) arrays of design and manufacturing know-how (including technical data); (2) keystone manufacturing, inspection, and test equipment; (3) keystone materials; and (4) goods accompanied by sophisticated operation, application, or maintenance know-how that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of any country or combination of countries and that may prove detrimental to the security of the United States (also referred to as militarily critical technology).
(d)
Other legitimate business purposes.
Include:
(1) Providing or seeking to provide equipment or technology to a foreign government with the approval of the U.S. Government (for example, through a licensed direct foreign military sale).
(2) Bidding, or preparing to bid, on a sale of surplus property.
(3) Selling or producing products for the commercial domestic marketplace or for the commercial foreign marketplace, providing that any required export license is obtained.
(4) Engaging in scientific research in a professional capacity.
(5) Acting as a subcontractor to a concern described in paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section; or
(6) Selling technical data subject to this part in support of DoD contractors or in supporting of the competitive process for DoD contracts, provided
such sales are limited solely to DoD contractors or potential DoD contractors who also are qualified U.S. contractors and provided such technical data are related to the purpose for which the qualified U.S. contractor is certified, or selling technical data to foreign contractors or governments overseas after receiving the required export license or approval by the U.S. Government.
(e)
Potential DoD contractor.
An individual or organization outside the Department of Defense declared eligible for DoD information services by a sponsoring DoD activity on the basis of participation in one of the following programs:
(1) The Department of the Army Qualitative Requirements Information Program.
(2) The Department of the Navy Industry Cooperative Research and Development Program.
(3) The Department of the Air Force Potential Contractor Program.
(4) The DoD Scientific and Technical Program; or
(5) Any similar program in use by other DoD Components.
(f)
Public disclosure.
Making technical data available without restricting its dissemination or use.
(g)
Technical data with military or space application, or technical data.
Any blueprints, drawings, plans, instructions, computer software and documentation, or other technical information that can be used or be adapted for use to design, engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair, overhaul, or reproduce any military or space equipment or technology concerning such equipment.
(h)
United States.
For the purpose of this part, the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 250.4
Policy.
(a) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 140c, the Secretary of Defense may withhold from public disclosure, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any technical data with military or space application in the possession of, or under the control of, the Department of Defense, if such data may not be exported lawfully without an approval, authorization, or license under E.O. 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act. However, technical data may not be withheld under this section if regulations promulgated under either the Order or Act authorize the export of such data pursuant to a general, unrestricted license or exemption in such regulations. (Pertinent portions of such regulations are set forth in §§ 250.7 and 250.8).
(b) Because public disclosure of technical data subject to this part is tantamount to providing uncontrolled foreign access, withholding such data from public disclosure, unless approved, authorized, or licensed in accordance with export control laws, is necessary and in the national interest. Unclassified technical data that are not governed by this part, unless otherwise restricted, shall continue to be made available to the public as well as to state and local governments.
(c) Nothwithstanding the authority provided in paragraph (a), of this section, it is DoD policy to provide technical data governed by this part to individuals and enterprises that are determined to be currently qualified U.S. contractors, when such data relate to a legitimate business purpose for which the contractor is certified. However, when such data are for a purpose other than to permit the requester to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of Defense, or other U.S. Government agency, and the significance of such data for military purposes is such that release for purposes other than direct support of DoD activities may jeopardize an important U.S. technological or operational advantage, those data shall be withheld in such cases.
(d) This part may not be used by DoD Components as authority to deny access to technical data to the Congress, or to any Federal, State, or local governmental agency that requires such data for regulatory or other official governmental purposes. Any such dissemination will include a statement that the technical data are controlled by the Department of Defense in accordance with this part.
(e) The authority provided herein may not be used to withhold from public disclosure unclassified information
regarding DoD operations, policies, activities, or programs, including the costs and evaluations of performance and reliability of military and space equipment. When such information does contain technical data subject to this part, the technical data shall be excised from that which is disclosed publicly.
(f) This part may not be used as a basis for the release of “limited rights” or “restricted rights” data as defined in 32 CFR 9-201(c) and 9-601(j) of the DoD Acquisition Regulation or that are authorized to be withheld from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
(g) This part may not be used to provide protection for technical data that should be classified in accordance with E.O. 12356 and DoD 5200.1-R.
(h) This part provides immediate authority to cite 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) as the basis for denials under the FOIA of technical data currently determined to be subject to the provisions of this part.
§ 250.5
Procedures.
All determinations to disseminate or withhold technical data subject to this part shall be consistent both with the policies set forth in § 250.4 of this part, and with the following procedures:
(a) Requests for technical data shall be processed in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.24 and DoD Instruction 5200.21. FOIA requests for technical data subject to this part shall be handled in accordance with the procedures established in DoD 5400.7-R. Such FOIA requests for technical data currently determined to be subject to the withholding authority effected by this part shall be denied under citing the third exemption to mandatory disclosure, and the requester shall be referred to the provisions of this part permitting access by qualified U.S. contractors.
(b) Upon receipt of a request for technical data in the possession of, or under the control of, the Department of Defense, the controlling DoD office shall determine whether such data are governed by this part. The determination shall be based on the following:
(1) The office's finding
3
that such data would require an approval, authorization, or license for export under E.O. 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act and that such data may not be exported pursuant to a general, unrestricted license (15 CFR 379.3, EAR) (see § 250.7) or exemption (22 CFR 125.11, ITAR) (see § 250.8).
3
May require consultation with the Department of State or the Department of Commerce, as appropriate.
(2) The office's judgment that the technical data under consideration disclose critical technology with military or space application. For purposes of making this determination, the Militarily Critical Technologies List (MCTL) shall be used as general guidance. The controlling DoD office may request assistance in making such a determination from the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSDR
E) in accordance with procedures established by that office.
(c) The controlling DoD office shall ensure that technical data determined to be governed by this part are marked in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.24.
(d) The controlling DoD office shall authorize release of technical data governed by this part to currently qualified U.S. contractors only, as defined in § 250.3(a) of this part, unless one of the following apply:
(1) The qualification of the U.S. contractor concerned has been temporarily revoked in accordance with § 250.5(e) of this part; or
(2) The requested data are judged to be unrelated to the purpose for which the qualified U.S. contractor is certified. When release of technical data is denied in accordance with this section, the controlling DoD office shall request additional information sufficient to explain the intended use of the requested data and, if appropriate, request a new certification (see § 250.3(a) above) describing the intended use of the requested data; or
(3) The technical data are being requested for a purpose other than to permit the requester to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of Defense or other U.S. Government
agency, in which case the controlling DoD office shall withhold such data if it has been determined by the DoD Component focal point (see § 250.5(e)(5)) that the significance of such data for military purposes is such that release for purpose other than direct support of DoD-approved activities may jeopardize an important technological or operational military advantage of the United States.
(e) Upon receipt of credible and sufficient information that a qualified U.S. contractor has (1) violated U.S. export control law, (2) violated its certification, (3) made a certification in bad faith, or (4) made an omission or misstatement of material fact, the DoD Component shall revoke temporarily the U.S. contractor's qualification. Such revocations having the potential for compromising a U.S. Government investigation may be delayed. Immediately upon such revocation, the DoD Component shall notify the contractor and the OUSDR
E. Such contractor shall be given an opportunity to respond in writing to the information upon which the temporary revocation is based before being disqualified. Any U.S. contractor whose qualification has been revoked temporarily may be reinstated upon presentation of sufficient information showing that the basis for such revocation was in error or has been remedied.
(f) When the basis for a contractor's temporary revocation cannot be removed within 20 working days, the DoD Component shall recommend to the OUSDR
E that the contractor be disqualified.
(g) Charges for copying, certifying, and searching records rendered to requesters shall be levied in accordance with DoD Instruction 7230.7. Normally, only one copy of the same record or document will be provided to each requester. Any release to qualified U.S. contractors of technical data controlled by this part shall be accompanied by a notice to the recipient as set forth in § 250.9.
(h) Qualified U.S. contractors who receive technical data governed by this part may disseminate such data for purposes consistent with their certification without prior permission of the controlling DoD office or when such dissemination is:
(1) To any foreign recipient for which the data are approved, authorized, or licensed under E.O. 12470 or the Arms Export Control Act.
(2) To another currently qualified U.S. contractor (as defined in § 250.3(a) above, including existing or potential subcontractors, but only within the scope of the certified legitimate business purpose of such recipient.
(3) To the Departments of State and Commerce, for purposes of applying for appropriate approvals, authorizations, or licenses for export under the Arms Export Control Act or E.O. 12470. Any such application shall include a statement that the technical data for which such approval, authorization, or license is sought are controlled by the Department of Defense in accordance with this part.
(4) To Congress or any Federal, State, or local governmental agency for regulatory purposes, or otherwise as may be required by law or court order. Any such dissemination shall include a statement that the technical data are controlled by the Department of Defense in accordance with this part.
(i) A qualified U.S. contractor desiring to disseminate technical data subject to this part in a manner not permitted expressly by the terms of this part shall seek authority to do so from the controlling DoD office.
(j) Any requester denied technical data, or any qualified U.S. contractor denied permission to redisseminate such data, pursuant to this part, shall be provided promptly a written statement of reasons for that action, and advised of the right to make a written appeal of such determination to a specifically identified appellate authority within the DoD Component. Appeals of denials made under DoD 5400.7-R (reference (e)) shall be handled in accordance with procedures established therein. Other appeals shall be processed as directed by the OUSDR
E.
(k) Denials shall cite 10 U.S.C. 140c as implemented by this part, and, in the case of FOIA denials made in reliance on this statutory authority, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3). Implementing procedures
shall provide for resolution of any appeal within 20 working days.
§ 250.6
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (USDR
E) shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of this Directive and shall designate an office to:
(1) Administer and monitor compliance with this Directive.
(2) Receive and disseminate notifications of temporary revocation in accordance with § 250.5(e) of this part.
(3) Receive recommendations for disqualification made in accordance with § 250.5(f) of this part, and act as initial disqualification authority.
(4) Provide, when necessary, technical assistance to DoD Components in assessing the significance of the military or space application of technical data that may be withheld from public disclosure under this Directive.
(5) Establish procedures to develop, collect, and disseminate certification statements and ensure their sufficiency, accuracy, and periodic renewal, and to make final determinations of qualification.
(6) Ensure that the requirements of this Directive are incorporated into the DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement for optional application to contracts involving technical data governed by this Directive.
(7) Develop, in conjunction with the General Counsel, Department of Defense, guidelines for responding to appeals.
(8) Develop procedures to ensure that DoD Components apply consistent criteria in authorizing exceptions under § 250.5(i) of this part.
(9) Establish procedures and appropriate mechanisms for the certification of qualified U.S. contractors, pursuant to § 250.6(a)(5) of this part, within 60 days of the effective date of this Directive. During this 60-day period, requests for technical data governed by this Directive shall be processed in accordance with procedures in effect before the promulgation of this Directive.
(10) Take such other actions that may be required to ensure consistent and appropriate implementation of this Directive within the Department of Defense.
(b) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy shall:
(1) Develop and promulgate, as required, policy guidance to DoD Components for implementing this Directive.
(2) Develop procedures with the Departments of State and Commerce to ensure referral of export cases involving technical data governed by this Directive to the Department of Defense.
(c) The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) shall:
(1) Monitor the implementation of provisions of this Directive that pertain to DoD 5400.7-R.
(2) Provide such other assistance as may be necessary to ensure compliance with this Directive.
(d) The General Counsel, Department of Defense, shall:
(1) Assist in carrying out the provisions of this Directive by advising DoD Components with respect to the statutory and regulatory requirements governing the export of technical data.
(2) Advise the USDR
E regarding consistent and appropriate implementation of this Directive.
(e) The Heads of DoD Components shall:
(1) As the delegated authority, have the option to redelegate the authority to withhold technical data in accordance with this Directive.
(2) Disseminate and withhold from public disclosure technical data subject to this Directive in a manner consistent with the policies and procedures set forth herein.
(3) Designate a focal point to
(i) Ensure implementation of this Directive;
(ii) Identify classes of technical data the release of which is governed by § 250.5(d)(3) of this part;
(iii) Act on appeals relating to case-by-case denials of technical data;
(iv) Suspend a contractor's qualification pursuant to § 250.(e) of this part;
(v) Receive and evaluate requests for reinstatement of a contractor's qualification; and, when appropriate,
(vi) Recommend disqualification to the OUSDR
E.
(4) Promulgate and effect regulations to implement this Directive within 180 days.
(5) Disseminate technical data governed by this Directive in the manner prescribed herein, to the extent feasible, during the period after which certification procedures have been established under § 250.6(a)(9) of this part, but before DoD Components have issued implementing regulations under paragraph (e)(4) of this section. However, if such dissemination is not feasible, the DoD Component may process requests for such data in accordance with procedures in effect before the promulgation of this Directive.
§ 250.7
Pertinent portions of Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
The following pertinent section of the EAR is provided for the guidance of DoD personnel in determining the releasability technical data under the authority of this part.

# Export Administration Regulations 15 CFR 379.3

# General License GTDA: Technical Data Available to All Destinations
A General License designated GTDA is hereby established authorizing the export to all destinations of technical data described in § 379.3(a), (b), or (c), below:
(a)
Data Generally Available.
Data that have been made generally available to the public in any form, including
(1) Data released orally or visually at open conferences, lectures, trade show, or other media open to the public; and
(2) Publications that may be purchased without restrictions at a nominal cost, or obtained without costs, or are readily available at libraries open to the public.
The term “nominal cost” as used in § 379.3(a)(2), is intended to reflect realistically only the cost of preparing and distributing the publication and not the intrinsic value of the technical data. If the cost is as much as to prevent the technical data from being generally available to the public, General License GTDA would not be applicable.
(b)
Scientific or Educational Data.
(1) Dissemination of information not directly and significantly related to design, production, or utilization in industrial processes, including such dissemination by correspondence, attendance at, or participation in, meetings; or
(2) Instruction in academic institutions and academic laboratories, excluding information that involves research under contract related directly and significantly to design, production, or utilization in industrial processes.
(c)
Patent Applications.
Data contained in a patent application, prepared wholly from foreign-origin technical data where such application is being sent to the foreign inventor to be executed and returned to the United States for subsequent filing in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. (No validated export license from the Office of Export Administration is required for data contained in a patent application, or an amendment, modification, supplement, or division thereof for filing in a foreign country in accordance with the regulations of the Patent and Trademark Office 37 CFR part 5. See § 370.10(j).)
§ 250.8
Pertinent portions of International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).
The following pertinent section of the ITAR is provided for the guidance of DoD personnel in determining the releasibility of technical data under the authority of this part.

# International Traffic in Arms Regulations 22 CFR 125.11

# General Exemptions
(a) Except as provided in § 26.01, district directors of customs and postal authorities are authorized to permit the export without a license of unclassified technical data as follows:
(1) If it is in published
4
form and subject to public dissemination by being:
4
The burden for obtaining appropriate U.S. Government approval for the publication of technical data falling within the definition in § 125.01, including such data as may be developed under other than U.S. Government contract, is on the person or company seeking publication.
(i) Sold at newsstands and bookstores;
(ii) Available by subscription or purchase without restrictions to any person or available without cost to any person;
(iii) Granted second class mailing privileges by the U.S. Government; or
(iv) Freely available at public libraries.
(2) If it has been approved for public release by any U.S. Government department or agency having authority to classify information or material under Executive Order [12356], as amended, and other applicable Executive Orders, and does not disclose the details of design, production, or manufacturing of any arms, ammunition, or implements of war on the U.S. Munitions List.
(3) If the export is in furtherance of a manufacturing license or technical assistance agreement approved by the Department of State in accordance with part 124 of this chapter.
(4) If the export is in furtherance of a contract with an agency of the U.S. Government or a contract between an agency of the U.S. Government and foreign persons, provided the contract calls for the export of relevant unclassified technical data, and such data are being exported only by the prime contractor. Such data shall not disclose the details of development, engineering, design, production, or manufacture of any arms, ammunition, or implements of war on the U.S. Munitions List. (This exemption does not permit the prime contractor to enter into subsidiary technical assistance or manufacturing license agreements, or any arrangement which calls for the exportation of technical data without compliance with part 124 of this subchapter.)
(5) If it relates to firearms not in excess of caliber .50 and ammunition for such weapons, except technical data containing advanced designs, processes, and munufacturing techniques.
(6) If it consists of technical data, other than design, development, or production information relating to equipment, the export of which has been previously authorized to the same recipient.
(7) If it consists of operations, maintenance and training manuals, and aids relating to equipment, the export of which has been authorized to the same recipient.
5
5
Not applicable to technical data relating to Category VI(d) and Category XVI.
(8) If it consists of additional copies of technical data previously approved for export to the same recipient; or if it consists of revised copies of technical data, provided it pertains to the identical Munitions List article, and the revisions are solely editorial and do not add to the content of technology previously approved for export to the same recipient.
(9) If it consists solely of technical data being reexported to the original source of import.
(10) If the export is by the prime contractor in direct support and within the technical and/or product limitations of a “U.S. Government approved project” and the prime contractor so certifies. The Office of Munitions Control, Department of State, will verify, upon request, those projects which are “U.S. Government approved,” and accord an exemption to the applicant who applies for such verification and exemption, where appropriate, under this subparagraph.
6
6
Classified information may also be transmitted in direct support of and within the technical and/or product limitation of such verified U.S. Government approved projects without prior Department of State approval provided the U.S. party so certifies and complies with the requirements of the Department of Defense Industrial Security Manual relating to the transmission of such classified information (and any other requirements of cognizant U.S. Government departments or agencies).
(11) If the export is solely for the use of American citizen employees of U.S. firms provided the U.S. firm certifies its overseas employee is a U.S. citizen and has a “need to know.”
7
7
Classified information may also be exported to such certified American citizen employees without prior Department of State approval provided the U.S. party complies with the requirements of the Department of Defense Industrial Security Manual relating to the transmission of such classified information (and any other requirements of cognizant U.S. Government departments or agencies). Such technical data or information (classified or unclassified) shall not be released by oral, visual, or documentary means to any foreign person.
(12) If the export is directly related to classified information, the export of which has been previously authorized to the same recipient, and does not disclose the details of design, production, or manufacture of any arms, ammunition, or implements of war on the U.S. Munitions List.
(b)
Plant visits.
Except as restricted by the provisions of § 126.01 of this subchapter:
(1) No license shall be required for the oral and visual disclosure of unclassified technical data during the course of a plant visit by foreign nationals provided the data [are] disclosed in connection with a classified plant visit or the visit has the approval of a U.S. Government agency having authority for the classification of information or material under Executive Order [12356], as amended, and other applicable Executive Orders, and the requirements of section V, paragraph [41(d)] of the Industrial Security Manual are met.
(2) No license shall be required for the documentary disclosure of unclassified technical data during the course of a plant visit by foreign nationals provided the document does not contain technical data as defined in § 125.01 in excess of that released orally or visually during the visit, is within the terms of the approved visit request, and the person in the United States assures that the technical data will not be used, adopted for use, or disclosed to others for the purpose of manufacture or production without the prior approval of the Department of State in accordance with part 124 of this subchapter.
(3) No Department of State approval is required for the disclosure of oral and visual classified information during the course of a plant visit by foreign nationals provided the visit has been approved by the cognizant U.S. Defense agency and the requirements of
section V, paragraph [41(d)] of the Defense Industrial Security Manual are met.
§ 250.9
Notice to accompany the dissemination of export-controlled technical data.
(a) Export of information contained herein, which includes, in some circumstances, release to foreign nationals within the United States, without first obtaining approval or license from the Department of State for items controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), or the Department of Commerce for items controlled by the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), may constitute a violation of law.
(b) Under 22 U.S.C. 2778 the penalty for unlawful export of items or information controlled under the ITAR is up to 2 years imprisonment, or a fine of $100,000, or both. Under 50 U.S.C., appendix 2410, the penalty for unlawful export of items or information controlled under the EAR is a fine of up to $1,000,000, or five times the value of the exports, whichever is greater; or for an individual, imprisonment of up to 10 years, or a fine of up to $250,000, or both.
(c) In accordance with your certification that establishes you as a “qualified U.S. contractor,” unauthorized dissemination of this information is prohibited and may result in disqualification as a qualified U.S. contractor, and may be considered in determining your eligibility for future contracts with the Department of Defense.
(d) The U.S. Government assumes no liability for direct patent infringement, or contributory patent infringement or misuse of technical data.
(e) The U.S. Government does not warrant the adequacy, accuracy, currency, or completeness of the technical data.
(f) The U.S. Government assumes no liability for loss, damage, or injury resulting from manufacture or use for any purpose of any product, article, system, or material involving reliance upon any or all technical data furnished in response to the request for technical data.
(g) If the technical data furnished by the Government will be used for commercial manufacturing or other profit potential, a license for such use may be necessary. Any payments made in support of the request for data do not include or involve any license rights.
(h) A copy of this notice shall be provided with any partial or complete reproduction of these data that are provided to qualified U.S. contractors.
Pt. 251

# PART 251—NATIONAL LANGUAGE SERVICE CORPS (NLSC)
Sec.
251.1
Purpose.
251.2
Applicability.
251.3
Definitions.
251.4
Policy.
251.5
Responsibilities.
251.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 3109, 18 U.S.C. 202, 31 U.S.C. 1535, 50 U.S.C. 1913.

# Source:
80 FR 76635, Dec. 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 251.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Implements the responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense in 50 U.S.C. 1913 by establishing the NLSC program.
(b) Establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures for the management of the NLSC program.
(c) Assigns responsibility to the National Security Education Board (NSEB) to oversee and coordinate the activities of the NLSC (as provided and determined by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1903 and 1913 with policy and funding oversight provided by the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) in accordance with DoD Directive 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R))” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512402p.pdf
).
§ 251.2
Applicability.
This part applies to Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the DoD (referred to collectively in this
part as “the DoD Components”) and federal agencies.
§ 251.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Consultant.
Defined in 5 CFR part 304.
Excepted service.
Appointments in the excepted service are civil service appointments within the Federal Government that do not confer competitive status and are excepted from competitive service by or pursuant to statute, by the President, or by the Office of Personnel Management, and which are not in Senior Executive Service.
Foreign language.
Any language other than English.
Language proficiency.
The U.S. Government relies on the Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR) scale to determine language proficiency. According to the ILR scale:
(1) 0 is No Proficiency.
(2) 0+ is Memorized Proficiency.
(3) 1 is Elementary Proficiency.
(4) 1+ is Elementary Proficiency, Plus.
(5) 2 is Limited Working Proficiency.
(6) 2+ is Limited Working Proficiency, Plus.
(7) 3 is General Professional Proficiency.
(8) 3+ is General Professional Proficiency, Plus.
(9) 4 is Advanced Professional Proficiency.
(10) 4+ is Advanced Professional Proficiency, Plus.
(11) 5 is Functional Native Proficiency.
Special government employee (SGE).
Defined in 18 U.S.C. 202.
§ 251.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The NLSC provides DoD, or other U.S. departments or agencies, with U.S. citizens with high levels of foreign language proficiency for short-term temporary assignments providing foreign language services.
(b) The NLSC is authorized to employ U.S. citizens as language consultants pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1913, 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 5 CFR part 304.
(c) The NLSC is exempt from DoD Instruction 5160.71, “DoD Language Testing Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/516071_2009_ch1.pdf
), such that the NLSC may use tests of the Defense Language Proficiency Testing System or may use and develop other tests to assess language proficiency for the purpose of employing NLSC members as language consultants.
(d) The NLSC will be available to support DoD or other U.S. departments or agencies pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1913.
(e) The NLSC will:
(1) Collect personally identifiable information pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1913 from individuals interested in applying for NLSC membership.
(2) Comply with DoD Instruction 8910.01, “Information Collection and Reporting” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/891001p.pdf
), Volume 2 of DoD Manual 8910.01, “DoD Information Collections Manual: Procedures for DoD Public Information Collections” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/891001m_vol2.pdf
), and 32 CFR part 310.
(f) Qualified and available members with requested language skills hired in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 5 CFR part 304 and DoD Administrative Instruction 2, “Employment of Experts and Consultants” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/ai002p.pdf
), will be temporarily assigned to government agencies pursuant to reimbursable agreements described in 31 U.S.C. 1535.
§ 251.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(P
R):
(1) Provides overall policy guidance for carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the Secretary of Defense in accordance with DoD Directive 5124.02 and 50 U.S.C. 1913.
(2) Ensures appropriate resources are programmed for the administration and operation of the NLSC.
(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness (ASD(R)):
(1) Through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Education:
(i) Develops processes and polices regarding the NLSC oversight and coordination by the NSEB in accordance with 50 U.S.C. 1903 and 1913.
(ii) Recommends and oversees the establishment and execution of policies, programs, and goals to ensure the NLSC supports the readiness of the Military Services.
(iii) Oversees, and monitors compliance with the NLSC programs and processes on behalf of the Secretary of Defense to include the procedures in § 251.6.
(iv) Ensures that functions needed to support the accomplishment of the NLSC mission are executed, including engagement with DoD Components, federal agencies, and State and local governments to identify language needs, assessment of language proficiency of its members, and skill sustainment training.
(v) Determines eligibility for NLSC membership.
(2) Hosts the annual program review identified in 50 U.S.C. 1913.
(3) Designates a program manager responsible for overseeing implementation of NLSC programs and processes.
(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), the Director, Department of Defense Human Resources Activity (DoDHRA):
(1) Implements procedures and instructions for the appointment of NLSC members in support of DoD or other U.S. departments or agencies.
(2) Authorizes and signs interagency agreements between the NLSC and organizations outside of the DoD, and delegates authority to sign such agreements as needed.
(3) Provides administrative support to the NLSC, including actions related to intra- and inter-agency agreements, the intra- and inter-agency transfer of funds, personnel actions, and travel requirements.
(4) Provides fiscal management and oversight to ensure all funds provided for the NLSC are separately and visibly accounted for in the DoD budget.
(d) DoD Components heads ensure that the use of NLSC members is considered during exercise and operational planning.
§ 251.6
Procedures.
(a)
NLSC purpose.
(1) The purpose of the NLSC is to identify and provide U.S. citizens with foreign language skills to support DoD or other U.S. departments or agencies, in need of foreign language services, for requirements of less than one year.
(2) The NLSC will provide capable, federally-hired individuals to rapidly respond to critical national needs and assist DoD and other U.S. departments and agencies with surge or emergency requirements.
(b)
NLSC membership criteria.
NLSC members must:
(1) Be a U.S. citizen.
(2) Be at least 18 years of age.
(3) Have satisfied Selective Service requirements.
(4) Be proficient in English and any other language.
(c)
NLSC member recruitment.
The NLSC program manager will oversee recruitment of members. NLSC maintains a registry of individuals who have applied or been accepted for membership and responds to requests for foreign language services by searching the registry to identify individuals who can provide support. NLSC collects applicant information through electronically available DD forms (located at the DoD Forms Management Program Web site at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm
) or comparable Web-based applications:
(1)
DD Form 2932.
Contains a brief set of screening questions and is used to determine basic eligibility for NLSC membership.
(2)
DD Form 2933.
A language screening tool to evaluate the applicant's skills with respect to specific tasks. DD Form 2933 is used in conjunction with the screening of language skills for entry into the NLSC.
(3)
DD Form 2934.
Provides an overall assessment of the applicant's foreign language ability. DD Form 2934 is also used in conjunction with the screening of detailed skills for entry into the NLSC.
(d)
NLSC member appointment as federal employees.
Where applicants meet NLSC membership criteria and are matched to foreign language services requirements, the NLSC program manager ensures actions are initiated to
temporarily hire applicants and members for forecasted and actual support requests.
(1) For federal hiring, members follow excepted service hiring policies in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109, 5 CFR part 304, and 32 CFR part 310, and are appointed as language consultants in advance of participating in a support request, in accordance with DoD Administrative Instruction 2.
(2) An NLSC member who is already employed by a U.S. Government agency or is under contract full-time to one agency must receive a release from the head of that agency or individual empowered to release the employee or contractor before being employed for service within the NLSC pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1913 and must comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding compensation. Such requests will be coordinated by the NLSC with the department or agency head concerned.
(3) NLSC members will be appointed on an annual basis pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, 5 CFR part 304, and 32 CFR part 310 to perform duties as language consultants. If serving less than 130 days in a consecutive 365-day period, they will be considered SGEs as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202. Concurrent appointments as an SGE may be held with other DoD Components or in another federal agency.
(4) The NLSC program manager will track the number of days each NLSC member performed services and the total amount paid to each NLSC member within the 365-day period after the NLSC member's appointment.
(e)
NLSC member activation.
Activation encompasses all aspects of matching and hiring NLSC members to perform short-term temporary assignments to provide foreign language services. Under NLSC program manager oversight:
(1) Customer requirements are matched with skills of NLSC members and support is requested from DoDHRA to process necessary agreements, funding documents, and personnel actions to provide foreign language services. In accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, NLSC members are temporarily hired as DoD employees.
(2) NLSC members are prepared for activation. If members are to be mobilized out of their home area, travel order requests are initiated. During the assignment, action will be taken to coordinate with members and clients, and assess success with the requesting agency upon completion.
(3) If duty requires issuance of DoD identification (e.g., Common Access Card), such identification will be issued to and maintained by activated NSLC members in accordance with Volume 1 of DoD Manual 1000.13, “DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100013_vol1.pdf
). Upon completion of the assignment, the identification will be retrieved in accordance with Volume 1 of DoD Manual 1000.13.
(4) Upon completion of assignments, DoDHRA will provide post-assignment support to members and reconcile funding to close project orders.
Pt. 252

# PART 252—PROFESSIONAL U.S. SCOUTING ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS AT U.S. MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OVERSEAS
Sec.
252.1
Purpose.
252.2
Applicability.
252.3
Definitions.
252.4
Policy.
252.5
Responsibilities.
252.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
E.O. 12715, May 3, 1990, 55 FR 19051; 10 U.S.C. 2606, 2554, and 2555.

# Source:
81 FR 3961, Jan. 25, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.1
Purpose.
This part updates policy and outlines fiscal and logistical support that the DoD may provide to qualified scouting organizations operating on U.S. military installations overseas.
§ 252.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the combatant commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within
the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as “the DoD Components”).
§ 252.3
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
DoD personnel and their families.
Members of the Military Services and their family members and DoD civilian employees and their family members.
Military Services.
The Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
Qualified scouting organization.
The Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA) and the Boy Scouts of America (BSA).
Sponsored organization or sponsored council.
Scouting organizations or councils authorized to operate as scouting affiliates on military installations.
§ 252.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy to cooperate with and assist qualified scouting organizations in establishing and providing facilities and services, within available resources, at locations outside the United States to support DoD personnel and their families in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2606, 2554, and 2555 and Executive Order 12715, “Support of Overseas Scouting Activities for Military Dependents”.
§ 252.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) oversees development and implementation of this part.
(b) The DoD Component heads implement this part and comply with its provisions.
(c) In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (b) of this section and acting as the DoD Executive Agent for DoD support to the BSA and GSUSA local councils and organizations in areas outside of the United States in accordance with 32 CFR part 212, the Secretary of the Army:
(1) Makes policy determinations in coordination with the other Military Department Secretaries regarding topics including, but not limited to, support that:
(i) DoD installation commanders are authorized to provide to the scouting program and personnel.
(ii) The scouting organization provides to DoD.
(2) Ensures accountability for appropriated fund (APF) and non-appropriated fund (NAF) assets used in the support of qualified scouting organizations.
(3) Provides input for and works with the scouting organizations in establishing the extent and scope of the annual scouting programs in support of DoD personnel and their families within the parameters established in this part and available resources.
(4) Ensures that the cost of the support provided is shared by each of the Military Services in proportion to benefits derived by their members from scouting programs overseas.
§ 252.6
Procedures.
(a)
General guidance.
(1) Support provided by DoD and services provided by qualified scouting organizations is documented in a written agreement and signed by the appropriate regional combatant commander or designee. Installation-specific support and services are documented in a written agreement and signed by the installation commander or designee. This agreement replaces the need for qualified scouting organizations to submit individual articles of incorporation, written constitutions, charters, or articles of agreement to gain approval from the installation commander to operate on the installation as required by 32 CFR part 212.
(2) Overseas installation commanders may authorize DoD support for qualified scouting organizations outside the United States when:
(i) Support is permitted under international agreements with the host nation, if applicable.
(ii) Support is permitted pursuant to law and DoD issuances.
(iii) Such support is within the capabilities of their respective installations.
(iv) Providing such support will not impede fulfillment of the military mission.
(3) Committees composed of representatives of the Military Services will be formed to review annual qualified scouting organization budget requirements.
(4) Overseas scouting committees will provide the overseas scouting organizations with information on the scouting requirements of DoD personnel and will monitor and evaluate the scouting organizations' efforts to satisfy those requirements.
(5) Funds raised by the scouting organizations, as a non-Federal entity, cannot be commingled with NAF funds and will be made available for annual audits.
(6) Employees of a qualified scouting organization are not considered to be U.S. Government employees, or employees of an instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of benefits or entitlements.
(i) APF is not used to reimburse their salaries and benefits.
(ii) They are not entitled to participate in the NAF retirement fund.
(iii) Serving in those positions does not constitute NAF employment credit or produce rehire priority.
(7) These organizations generally are not covered under the terms of United States' Status of Forces or other relevant agreements with host nations.
(i) Questions regarding whether they are covered under such agreements should be referred to the legal office servicing the applicable command. Applicability of any relevant agreements would be addressed with the host nation only by the applicable command, and not the organization.
(ii) To the extent the organization is not covered under any relevant agreement, host nation laws apply. In all cases, the host nation will determine the scope and extent of the applicability of host nation laws to these employees.
(b)
Funding guidance.
(1) Any APF and NAF support provided will be programmed and approved on an annual basis by the DoD Components. NAF support is authorized for youth activities programs in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.15, “Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101515p.pdf
) and for qualified scouting organizations in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(2) APF may be used in conjunction with overseas scouting organizations. The following services may be provided on a non-reimbursable basis:
(i) Transportation of executive personnel (to include household goods and baggage) of qualified scouting organizations:
(A) When on invitational travel orders.
(B) To and from overseas assignments.
(C) While providing scouting support to DoD personnel and their families. Transportation of supplies of qualified scouting organizations necessary to provide such support may also be provided.
(ii) Office space where regular meetings can be conducted, and space for recreational activities.
(iii) Warehousing.
(iv) Utilities.
(v) Means of communication.
(3) DoD may provide the following additional support to scouting executives assigned overseas:
(i) Pursuant to section API 3.18 of DoD 4525.6-M, “Department of Defense Postal Manual” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/452506m.pdf
), access to use Military Services postal services is authorized.
(ii) Pursuant to section 4.3.2.2.2 of Department of Defense Education Activity Regulation 1342.13, “Eligibility Requirements for Education of Elementary and Secondary School-age Dependents in Overseas Areas” (available at
http://www.dodea.edu/Offices/Regulations/index.cfm
), access to DoD Dependents Schools (overseas) may be provided on a space-available, tuition-paying basis.
(iii) Pursuant to 32 CFR part 230, use of military banking facilities operated under DoD contracts is authorized.
(iv) Pursuant to DoD Instruction 1015.10, “Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101510p.pdf
), the use of morale, welfare, and recreation programs may be provided.
(v) Pursuant to 32 CFR part 161, medical care in uniformed services facilities on a space-available basis at rates
specified in uniformed services instructions, with charges collected locally, is authorized.
(vi) Pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-45, “Rental and Construction of Government Quarters” (available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_a045
) and subparagraph 2.c(1)(e) of DoD 4165.63-M, “DoD Housing Management” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416563m.pdf
), when DoD-sponsored civilian personnel serving DoD military installations at foreign locations cannot obtain suitable housing in the vicinity of an installation, they and their families may occupy DoD housing on a rental basis. The Military Service determines the priority of such leasing actions. These civilians are required to pay the established rental rate in accordance with DoD 4165.63-M and Military Service guidance.
(vii) Pursuant to DoD Instruction 1330.17, “DoD Commissary Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133017p.pdf
), overseas installation commanders or Secretaries of the Military Departments may extend commissary access through official support agreements.
(viii) Pursuant to DoD Instruction 1330.21, “Armed Services Exchange Regulations” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133021p.pdf
), the Secretaries of the Military Departments may grant Armed Forces Exchange deviations with regard to authorized patron privileges for individuals or classes and groups of persons at specific installations when based on alleviating individual hardships.
(4) NAF may be used in conjunction with qualified scouting organizations to:
(i) Reimburse for salaries and benefits of employees of those organizations for periods during which their professional scouting employees perform services in overseas areas in direct support of DoD personnel and their families.
(ii) Reimburse travel to and from official meetings of the overseas scouting committee upon approval from the appropriate combatant commander.
(5) The total amount of NAF support for the scouting program must not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of the scouting program.
[81 FR 3961, Jan. 25, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 61615, Sept. 7, 2016]
Pt. 257

# PART 257—ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICE OF PROCESS
Sec.
257.1
Purpose.
257.2
Applicability.
257.3
Definition.
257.4
Policy.
257.5
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 133.

# Source:
49 FR 1490, Jan. 12, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 257.1
Purpose.
This rule updates DoD policy governing acceptance of service of process served on the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the Military Departments.
§ 257.2
Applicability.
This rule applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Military Departments.
§ 257.3
Definition.
Service of Process.
When applied to the filing of a court action against an officer or agency of the United States, service of process refers to the delivery or, when appropriate, receipt by mail, of a summons and complaint made in accordance with Rule 4, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure by serving the United States and by serving a copy of the summons and complaint by registered or certified mail to such officer or agency. It further signifies the delivery of a subpoena requiring a witness to appear and give testimony or of a subpoena requiring production of documents, or delivery of a subpoena for any other reason whether or not the matter involves the United States.
§ 257.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy to accept service of process directed to the Secretary of Defense or a Secretary of a Military Department in his official capacity. Acceptance of service of process will not
constitute an admission or waiver with respect to the jurisdiction or to the propriety of service.
§ 257.5
Responsibilities.
The following responsibilities may not be redelegated:
(a) The
General Counsel, Department of Defense,
shall accept service of process for the OSD.
(b) The
Secretary of the Army,
or his designee, the
Chief, Litigation Division,
Office of the Judge Advocate General, shall accept service of process for the Department of the Army.
(c) The
Secretary of the Navy,
or his designee, the
General Counsel,
shall accept service of process for the Department of the Navy.
(d) The
Secretary of the Air Force,
or his designee, the
Chief, General Litigation Division,
Office of the Judge Advocate General, shall accept service of process for the Department of the Air Force.
Pt. 259

# PART 259—UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS

# Authority:
Section 213, Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894, (42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256 (42 U.S.C. 4601 note).
§ 259.1
Uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition.
Regulations and procedures for complying with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894 42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 (Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256, 42 U.S.C. 4601 note) are set forth in 49 CFR part 24.
[52 FR 48020, Dec. 17, 1987]
Pt. 260

# PART 260—VENDING FACILITY PROGRAM FOR THE BLIND ON DOD-CONTROLLED FEDERAL PROPERTY
Sec.
260.1
Purpose.
260.2
Applicability.
260.3
Definitions.
260.4
Policy.
260.5
Responsibilities.
260.6
Procedures.
260.7
Information requirements.

# Source:
74 FR 62235, Nov. 27, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 260.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Assigns responsibilities in compliance with 20 U.S.C. 107
et seq.
and 34 CFR part 395 and establishes the following policies within the Department of Defense:
(1) Uniform policies for application of priority accorded the blind to operate vending facilities;
(2) Requirements for satisfactory vending facility sites on DoD-controlled property; and
(3) Vending machine income-sharing requirements on DoD-controlled property
(b) Prescribes requirements and operating procedures for the vending facility program for the blind on DoD-controlled property.
(c) Does NOT apply to full food services, mess attendant services, or services supporting the operation of a military dining facility.
§ 260.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the Department of Defense Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) Vending facility sites on DoD-controlled property.
§ 260.3
Definitions.
Blind licensee.
A blind person licensed by the State licensing agency to operate a vending facility on DoD-controlled property.
Cafeteria.
A food dispensing facility capable of providing a broad variety of prepared foods and beverages (including hot meals) primarily through the use of a line where the customer serves himself or herself from displayed selections. A cafeteria may be fully automatic, or some limited waiter or waitress service may be available and provided within a cafeteria and table or booth seating facilities are always provided. The DoD Component food dispensing facilities that conduct cafeteria-type operations during part of their normal operating day and full table-service operations during the remainder of their normal operating day are not “cafeterias” if they engage primarily in full table service operations.
Direct competition.
The presence and operation of a DoD Component vending machine or a vending facility on the same DoD-controlled property as a vending facility operated by a blind vendor. Vending machines or vending facilities operated in areas serving employees, the majority of whom normally do not have access (in terms of uninterrupted ease of approach and the amount of time required to patronize the vending facility) to the vending facility operated by a blind vendor, shall not be considered to be in direct competition with the vending facility operated by a blind vendor.
DoD-controlled property.
Federal property that is owned, leased, or occupied by DoD.
Federal employees.
Civilian appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund employees of the United States.
Federal property.
Any building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by DoD in the United States.
Individual location, installation, or facility.
A single building or a self-contained group of buildings. A self-contained group of buildings refers to two or more buildings that must be located in close proximity to each other and between which a majority of the Federal employees working in such buildings regularly move from one building to another in the normal course of their official business during a normal working day.
License.
A written instrument issued by a State licensing agency to a blind person, authorizing that person to operate a vending facility on DoD-controlled property.
Military dining facility.
A facility owned, operated, or leased and wholly controlled by DoD and used to provide dining services to members of the Armed Forces, including a cafeteria, military mess hall, military troop dining facility, or any similar dining facility operated for the purpose of providing meals to members of the Armed Forces.
Normal working hours.
An 8-hour work period between the approximate hours of 0800 and 1800, Monday through Friday.
On-site official.
The individual in command of an installation or separate facility or location. For the Pentagon Reservation only, the Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) Director of the Defense Facilities Directorate is designated as the on-site official.
Permit.
The official approval given a State licensing agency by a department, agency, or instrumentality responsible for DoD-controlled property whereby the State licensing agency is authorized to establish a vending facility.
Satisfactory site.
An area fully accessible to vending facility patrons and having sufficient electrical, plumbing, heating, and ventilation outlets for the location and operation of a vending facility in compliance with applicable health laws and building requirements. A “satisfactory site” shall have a minimum of 250 square feet available for sale of items and for storage of articles necessary for the operation of a vending facility.
State.
A state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory, or possession of the United States.
State licensing agency.
The State agency designated by the Secretary of Education, to issue licenses to blind persons for the operation of vending facilities on Federal and other property.
Substantial alteration or renovation.
A permanent material change in the floor area of a building that would render it
appropriate for the location and operation of a vending facility by a blind vendor.
United States.
The several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
Vending facility.
Automatic vending machines, cafeterias, snack bars, cart service, shelters, counters, and such other appropriate auxiliary equipment that may be operated by blind licensees and that are necessary for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, and other articles and services to be dispensed automatically or manually and that are prepared on or off the premises according to applicable health laws. Also includes facilities providing the vending or exchange of chances for any lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State within such State.
Vending machine.
For the purposes of assigning vending machine income, a coin or currency operated machine that dispenses articles or services except that those machines operated by the United States Postal Service for the sale of postage stamps or other postal products and services, machines providing services of a recreational nature, and telephones shall not be considered to be vending machines.
Vending machine income.
(1) DoD Component receipts from the DoD Component vending machine operations on DoD-controlled property, where the machines are operated by any DoD Component activity, less costs incurred; or
(2) Commissions received by any DoD Component activity from a commercial vending firm that provides vending machines on DoD-controlled property.
(3) “Costs incurred” include costs of goods, including reasonable service and maintenance costs in accordance with customary business practices of commercial vending concerns, repair, cleaning, depreciation, supervisory and administrative personnel, normal accounting, and accounting for income-sharing.
Vendor.
A blind licensee who is operating a vending facility on DoD-controlled property.
§ 260.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that a DoD Component having accountability for real property shall extend priority on such property to the blind when implementing the Randolph-Sheppard Act, as set out in the following paragraphs:
(a) The blind shall be given priority in the establishment and operation of vending facilities.
(b) The blind shall be given priority in the award of contracts to operate cafeterias.
(c) In conjunction with acquisition or substantial alteration or renovation of a building, satisfactory sites shall be provided for operation of blind vending facilities.
(d) Specified income from vending machines operated on DoD-controlled property by a DoD Component either directly or by contract shall be given to State licensing agencies.
§ 260.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (PDUSD(P
R)), under the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall establish policies and procedures and monitor the Vending Facility Program.
(b) The Heads of the DoD Components, in monitoring their respective programs, shall:
(1) Approve or disapprove State licensing agency applications for permits and the provision of satisfactory sites;
(2) Issue policies and procedures to designate and establish responsibilities of the on-site official;
(3) Suspend or terminate a permit to operate a vending facility after consulting with the PDUSD(P
R) where circumstances warrant.
(4) Ensure appropriate real property outgrants are accomplished in accordance with DoDI 4165.70, “Real Property Management,”
1
and consistent with the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107) and the implementing regulations (34 CFR part 395).
1
Available from
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/html/416570.htm.
(5) The On-Site Official shall be the point of contact with State licensing agencies and shall:
(i) Consult with State licensing agencies on articles and services to be provided;
(ii) Establish appropriate limitations on the location or operation of a vending facility upon finding that the granting of a priority under the Act would adversely affect the interests of the United States. The On-Site Official shall justify this limitation in writing through the Head of the DoD Component concerned and the PDUSD(P
R) to the Secretary of Education for determination of whether the limitation is warranted.
(iii) Notify State licensing agencies of acquisition or substantial alteration or renovation of property;
(iv) Negotiate with State licensing agencies on other matters and adhere to guidance provided in § 260.6 of this part.
§ 260.6
Procedures.
The DoD Components in control of the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property shall take necessary action to ensure the requirements set forth in this Section are implemented for these properties.
(a) The blind have a priority to operate vending facilities on DoD property, whenever feasible, in light of appropriate space and potential patronage. Implementation of this priority is not required when:
(1) The number of people using the property is or will be insufficient to support a vending facility; or
(2) The Secretary of Education determines that the limitation on the placement or operation of a vending facility is warranted pursuant to 260.5(b)(5)(ii), which is binding on the DoD Component. Notice of the Secretary of Education's determination will be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Applications for permits by the State licensing agency to operate vending facilities (except cafeterias) on DoD-controlled property must be submitted in writing to the Head of the DoD Component concerned through the on-site official. When an application is not approved, the Head of the DoD Component concerned shall advise the State licensing agency in writing and shall indicate the reasons for the disapproval. Permits shall describe the location of the vending facility and shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) The permit shall be issued in the name of the State licensing agency.
(2) The permit shall be issued for an indefinite period of time subject to suspension or termination upon failure to comply with agreed-upon terms. It shall be subject to termination by either party on 60 days' written notice to the other party, in cases of:
(i) Inactivation of the installation or activity.
(ii) Loss of use of a building or other facility housing the vending facility.
(iii) Change in the DoD Component's requirements for service.
(iv) Inability of the State licensing agency to continue to operate the vending facility.
(3) The permit shall provide:
(i) No charge shall be made by the DoD Component to the State licensing agency for normal repair and maintenance of the building, cleaning areas adjacent to the designated vending facility boundaries, or trash removal from a designated collection point (not to include any hazardous waste).
(ii) The State licensing agency shall be responsible for cleaning and maintaining the vending facility appearance and its security within the designated boundaries of such facility and for all costs of every kind in conjunction with vending facility equipment, merchandise, and other products to be sold, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section. Neither party shall be responsible for loss or damage to the other's property, unless caused by its acts or omissions. The State licensing agency shall also be responsible for the acts or omissions of the blind vendor, the vendor's employees, or agents.
(iii) Articles sold at such vending facilities may consist of newspapers, periodicals, publications, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, chances for any lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State within such State, and other articles or services traditionally found in blind-operated vending facilities operated under 20 U.S.C. 107, as determined by the State licensing agency, in consultation with the on-site official, to be suitable for a particular location.
Articles and services may be automatically or manually dispensed.
(iv) Vending facilities shall be operated in compliance with applicable Federal, state, interstate and local laws and regulations, including those concerning health and sanitation, the environment, and building codes.
(v) Installation, modification, relocation, removal, and renovation of vending facilities shall be subject to the prior approval of the on-site official and the State licensing agency. The initiating party shall pay the costs of installation, modification, removal, relocation, or renovation. In any case of suspension or termination of a permit to operate a vending facility on the basis of noncompliance by either party, the costs of removal from the building shall be borne by the non-complying party.
(4) The permit shall state that no charge shall be made to the State Licensing Authority for the cost of normal cleaning, maintenance, and repair of the building structure in and adjacent to the vending facility areas, and no charge shall be made to the DoD for the cost of sanitation and the maintenance of vending facilities and vending machines in an orderly condition at all times, and the installation, maintenance, repair, replacement, servicing, and removal of vending facility equipment.
(5) In the event the blind licensee fails to provide satisfactory service or otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of the permit issued to the State licensing agency, the on-site official shall, after coordinating with the Head of the DoD Component, notify the State licensing agency of this deficiency in writing and request corrective action within a specified reasonable time. The notice shall indicate that failure to correct the deficiency shall result in temporary suspension or termination of the permit, as appropriate. Suspension or termination action shall be taken by the Head of the DoD Component concerned after consultation with the PDUSD(P
R).
(c) Any DoD Component-acquired (purchased, rented, leased, or constructed), substantially altered, or renovated building is required to have one or more satisfactory sites for a blind-operated vending facility, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1) A determination that a building contains a satisfactory site or sites is presumed if the State licensing agency and the on-site official consult and agree that the site or sites provided are satisfactory.
(i) The Heads of the DoD Components shall notify the appropriate State licensing agency
2
by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, of buildings to be acquired or substantially altered or renovated. This notification shall be provided at least 60 days in advance of the intended acquisition date or the initiation of actual construction, alteration, or renovation. As a practical matter, the State licensing agency should be contacted early in the planning or design stage of a project. This notification shall:
2
See the U.S. Department of Education Web site, Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services at
http://www.ed.gov.
(A) State that a satisfactory site(s) for the location and operation of a blind vending facility is (are) included in the plans for the building.
(B) Include a copy of a single line drawing indicating the proposed location of such site(s).
(C) Advise the State licensing agency that, subject to the approval of the DoD Component, it shall be offered the opportunity to select the location and type of vending facility to be operated by a blind vendor prior to completion of the final space layout of the building.
(ii) Advise that the State licensing agency must respond within 30 days to the DoD Component, acknowledging receipt of the correspondence from the DoD Component and indicating whether it is interested in establishing a vending facility and, if interested, signifying its agreement or alternate selection of a location and its selection of type of vending facility. A copy of the written notice to the State licensing agency and the State licensing agency's response, if any, shall be provided to the Secretary of Education.
(iii) If the State licensing agency's response to the DoD Component indicates it does not desire to establish and
operate a vending facility and sets forth any specific basis other than the insufficiency of patrons to support a vending facility, or if the State licensing agency does not respond within 30 days, then a site meeting the anticipated needs of the DoD Component shall be incorporated. Each such site shall have a minimum of 250 square feet for sale of items and for storage of articles necessary for the operation of a vending facility.
(iv) If the State licensing agency indicates that the number of persons using the property is or will be insufficient to support a vending facility, then a satisfactory site to be operated under the auspices of the State licensing agency shall not be incorporated. The On-Site Official shall, through the Head of the DoD component, notify the Secretary of Education of the State licensing agency's response.
(2) The requirement to provide a satisfactory site shall not apply:
(i) When fewer than 100 Federal employees (as defined in § 260.3 of this part) are located in the building during normal working hours; or
(ii) When the building contains fewer than 15,000 square feet to be used for Federal Government purposes and the Federal Government space is used to provide services to the general public.
(iii) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section do not preclude arrangements under which blind vending facilities may be established in buildings of a size or with an employee population less than that specified. For example, if a building is to be constructed that will contain only 30 Federal employees, upon agreement of the on-site official and the State licensing agency, the DoD Component may decide to provide a satisfactory site for a blind vending facility.
(3) When a DoD Component is leasing all or part of a privately owned building in which the lessor or any of its tenants have an existing restaurant or other food facility in a part of the building not covered by the lease and operation of a vending facility would be in substantial direct competition with such restaurant or other food operation, the requirement to provide a satisfactory site does not apply.
(d) Vending machine income generated by the Department of Defense shall be shared with State licensing agencies as prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The on-site official is responsible for collecting and accounting for such vending machine income (as defined in § 260.3 of this part) and for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this paragraph.
(1) The vending machine income-sharing requirements are as follows:
(i) One hundred percent of the vending machine income from vending machines in direct competition with blind-operated vending facilities shall be provided to the State licensing agency.
(ii) Fifty percent of the vending machine income from vending machines not in direct competition with blind-operated vending facilities shall be provided to the State licensing agency.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, thirty percent of the vending machine income from vending machines not in direct competition with blind-operated vending facilities and located where at least fifty percent of the total hours worked on the premises occurs during other than normal working hours (as defined in § 260.3 of this part) shall be provided to the State licensing agency.
(2) The determination of whether a vending machine is in direct competition with the blind-operated vending facility is the responsibility of the on-site official subject to the concurrence of the State licensing agency.
(3) These vending machine income-sharing requirements do not apply to:
(i) Income from vending machines operated by or for the military exchanges or ships' store systems; or
(ii) Income from vending machines, not in direct competition with a blind-operated vending facility, at any individual location, installation, or facility where the total of the vending machine income from all such machines at such location, installation, or facility does not exceed $3,000 annually.
(4) The payment to State licensing agencies under these income-sharing requirements must be made quarterly on a fiscal year basis.
(e) Pursuant to 34 CFR 395.37, whenever any State licensing agency for the
blind determines that any DoD activity is failing to comply with the provisions of 20 U.S.C. 107 and all informal attempts to resolve the issues have been unsuccessful, the State licensing agency may file a complaint with the Secretary of Education.
§ 260.7
Information requirements.
Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the DoD Components shall forward to the PDUSD(P
R) the total number of applications for vending facility locations received from State licensing agencies, the number accepted, the number denied, the number still pending, the total amount of vending machine income collected (as defined in § 260.3 of this part, excluding income exempt from the income sharing requirements by § 260.6(d)(3) of this part), and the amount of such vending machine income disbursed to State licensing agencies in each State. These reporting requirements have been assigned Report Control Symbol DD-P
R(A)2210, according to DoD 8910.1-M, “Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements.”
3
3
Available from
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/891001m.pdf.
Pt. 263

# PART 263—TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE CONTROL ON CERTAIN DEFENSE MAPPING AGENCY SITES
Sec.
263.1
Definitions.
263.2
Applicability.
263.3
Compliance.
263.4
Registration of vehicles.
263.5
Inspection of license and registration.
263.6
Speeding or reckless driving.
263.7
Emergency vehicles.
263.8
Signs.
263.9
Right-of-way in crosswalks.
263.10
Parking.
263.11
Penalties.

# Authority:
63 Stat. 377 as amended, 18 U.S.C. 13, 40 U.S.C. 318 a through d, 50 U.S.C. 797, Delegations, 43 FR 56895, 46 FR 58306.

# Source:
48 FR 34952, Aug. 2, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 263.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Brookmont site
means those grounds and facilities of the Defense Mapping Agency Hydrographic/Topographic Center (DMAHTC) and the Defense Mapping Agency Office of Distribution Services (DMAODS) located in Montgomery County, Maryland, over which the Federal Government has acquired exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction.
(b)
Uniformed guard
means a designated DMA government guard appointed to enforce vehicle and traffic regulations by the Director, DMAHTC.
§ 263.2
Applicability.
The provisions of this regulation apply to all areas in the Brookmont site and to all persons on or within the site. They supplement those penal provisions of Title 18, U.S. Code, relating to crimes and criminal procedures, which apply without regard to the place of the offense and those provisions of state law which are made federal criminal offenses by virtue of the Assimilative Crimes Act, 18 U.S.C. 13.
§ 263.3
Compliance.
(a) All persons entering the site shall comply with this regulation; with all official signs; and with the lawful directions or orders of a uniformed guard in connection with the control or regulation of traffic, parking or other conduct at the Brookmont site.
(b) At the request of a uniformed guard, a person must provide identification by exhibiting satisfactory credentials (such as driver's license).
(c) No person shall knowingly give any false or fictitious report concerning an accident or violation of this regulation to any person properly investigating an accident or alleged violation.
(d) All incidents resulting in injury to persons or damage to property must be reported to the Security Office immediately.
(e) No person involved in an accident shall leave the scene of that accident without first giving aid or assistance to the injured and making his or her identity known.
§ 263.4
Registration of vehicles.
(a) Newly assigned or employed individuals who intend to operate a privately-owned vehicle at the site shall
register it with the Security Police Division within 24 hours after entry on duty.
(b) Temporary registration for a specified period of time will be permitted for temporarily hired, detailed, or assigned personnel; consultants; contractors; visiting dignitaries, etc.
§ 263.5
Inspection of license and registration.
No person may operate any motor vehicle on the site without a valid, current operator's license, nor may any person, if operating a motor vehicle on the site, refuse to exhibit for inspection, upon request of a uniformed guard, his operator's license or proof of registration of the vehicle under his control at time of operation.
§ 263.6
Speeding or reckless driving.
(a) No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the site at a speed greater than or in a manner other that what is reasonable and prudent for the particular location, given the conditions of traffic, weather, and road surface and having regard to the actual and potential hazards existing.
(b) Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed, the speed limit on the site is 15 m.p.h., unless another speed limit has been duly posted, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle on the site in excess of the speed limit.
§ 263.7
Emergency vehicles.
No person shall fail or refuse to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle when operating with siren or flashing lights.
§ 263.8
Signs.
Every driver shall comply with all posted traffic signs.
§ 263.9
Right-of-way in crosswalks.
No person shall fail or refuse to yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian or bicyclist crossing a street in the marked crosswalk.
§ 263.10
Parking.
(a) No person, unless otherwise authorized by a posted traffic sign or directed by a uniformed guard, shall stand or park a motor vehicle:
(1) On a sidewalk, lawn, plants or shrubs.
(2) Within an intersection or within a crosswalk.
(3) Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, 5 feet of a driveway or 30 feet of a stop sign or traffic control device.
(4) At any place which would result in the vehicle being double parked.
(5) At curbs painted yellow.
(6) In a direction facing on-coming traffic.
(7) In a manner which would obstruct traffic.
(8) In a parking space marked as not intended for his or her use.
(9) Where directed not to do so by a uniformed guard.
(10) Except in an area specifically designated for parking or standing.
(11) Except within a single space marked for such purposes, when parking or standing in an area with marked spaces.
(12) At any place in violation of any posted sign.
(13) In excess of 24 hours, unless permission has been granted by the Security Office.
(b) No person shall park bicycles, motorbikes or similar vehicles in areas not designated for that purpose.
(c) Visitors shall park in areas identified for that purpose by posted signs and shall register their vehicles at the front desk of Erskine Hall, Ruth Building or Fremont Building.
(d) No person, except visitors, shall park a motor vehicle on the Brookmont site without having a valid parking permit displayed on such motor vehicle in compliance with the instructions of the issuing authority.
§ 263.11
Penalties.
(a) Except with respect to the laws of the State of Maryland assimilated under 18 U.S.C. 13, whoever shall be found guilty of violating these regulations is subject to a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 318c. Except as expressly provided in this part, nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations, or any State
and local laws and regulations applicable to the area in which the site is situated.
(b) In addition to the penalties described in subsection (a) of this section, parking privileges may be revoked by the issuing authority for violations of any of the provisions of this regulation.
(c) Any motor vehicle that is parked in violation of this regulation may be towed away or otherwise moved if a determination is made by a uniformed guard that it is a nuisance or hazard. A fee for the moving service and for the storage of the vehicle, if any, may be charged, and the vehicle is subject to a lien for that charge.
Pt. 264

# PART 264—INTERNATIONAL INTERCHANGE OF PATENT RIGHTS AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION
Sec.
264.1
Purpose and cancellation.
264.2
Scope.
264.3
Background.
264.4
Policy.
264.5
Claims for compensation.

# Authority:
Secs. 601, 606, 75 Stat. 438, 440; 22 U.S.C. 2351, 2356.

# Source:
25 FR 14456, Dec. 31, 1960, unless otherwise noted.
§ 264.1
Purpose and cancellation.
The purpose of this part is to restate Department of Defense policy concerning the international interchange for defense purposes of patent rights and technical information. DoD Directive 2000.3, “Technical Property Interchange Agreements”, dated April 15, 1954, is hereby superseded and cancelled. Delegation published at 19 FR 2523 is cancelled.
§ 264.2
Scope.
This part applies to the activities of all Department of Defense personnel involved in the international interchange for defense purposes of patent rights and technical information. The policy prescribed herein applies to unclassified as well as classified information, owned by the United States Government or privately owned, but does not apply to patents, patent applications, and technical information in the field of atomic energy.
§ 264.3
Background.
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, and of predecessor legislation superseded by that Act, the United States has entered into agreements for the Interchange of Patent Rights and Technical Information for Defense Purposes with Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. The agreements, which are published in the Treaties and Other International Act Series, are basically similar in substance but are not identical. Under the agreements:
(1) Each government undertakes to facilitate the interchange of privately owned patent rights and of technical information through the medium of commercial relationships, to the extent permitted by the laws and security requirements of the contracting governments.
(2) When technical information is supplied by one government to the other for information only, the recipient government undertakes to treat the information as disclosed in confidence and to use its best endeavors to ensure that the information is not dealt with in any manner likely to prejudice the rights of the owner to obtain patent or similar statutory protection.
(3) When technical information supplied by one government to the other discloses an invention which is the subject of a patent or patent application held in secrecy in the country of origin, the recipient government undertakes to accord similar treatment to a corresponding patent application filed in that country.
(4) When privately owned technical information is released by one government to the other and the recipient government uses or disclosed the information, the owner shall, subject to the extent that the owner may be entitled thereto under the applicable law and subject to arrangements between the contracting governments regarding the assumption as between them of liability for compensation, receive prompt, just and effective compensation for
such use and for any damages resulting from such use or disclosure.
(5) Each government is entitled to use for defense purposes without cost any invention which the other government (including government corporations) owns or to which it has the right to grant a license to use, except to the extent that there may be liability to any private owner of an interest in the invention.
(b) Each of these agreements establishes a Technical Property Committee consisting of a representative of each contracting government, whose function it is to consider and make recommendations to the contracting governments on all matters relating to the subject of the agreement and to assist where appropriate in the negotiation of commercial or other agreements for the use of patent rights and technical information in the military assistance program.
(1) The Patent Advisor assigned to the Defense Staff of the U.S. Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and European Regional Organizations (USRO), Paris, France, is the United States representative to the Technical Property Committees in Europe. The J-4, Hq. United States Forces Japan, Tokyo, Japan is the United States representative to the United States-Japanese Technical Property Committee. A member of the Office of Assistant General Counsel, International Affairs, Office of the Secretary of Defense, is the United States representative to the United States-Australian Technical Property Committee. The appropriate representative should be consulted on all problems dealing with patent rights, technical information and related matters under the agreements.
(2) These representatives receive policy guidance from the Department of Defense. The Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs is responsible within the Department of Defense for transmitting such policy guidance through appropriate channels. Guidance transmitted for the United States representative in Europe shall be forwarded to the Defense Advisor, USRO; guidance transmitted for the United States representative in Japan shall be transmitted to the Commanding General, United States Forces Japan.
(c) Department of Defense problems arising in the United States in connection with the interchange of patent rights and privately owned technical information should be referred to the patent activity of the appropriate Military Department.
[25 FR 14456, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended at 26 FR 1993, Mar. 8, 1961; 26 FR 6479, July 19, 1961]
§ 264.4
Policy.
It is the policy of the Department of Defense to encourage and facilitate international interchanges of patent rights and technical information to further the common defense of the United States and friendly nations. In achieving this purpose, the following principles shall be observed.
(a) Classified military information shall be released only through Government channels and only when consistent with the National Disclosure Policy, or when approved as an exception to that policy.
(b) In accordance with the Congressional policy prescribed by section 413(a) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1933(a)), and pursuant to the bilateral agreements referred to in § 264.3, commercial relationships shall be utilized whenever appropriate and to the maximum extent feasible in order to encourage the participation of private enterprise in the Mutual Security Program, to relieve the Department of Defense of administrative burdens, and to reduce the costs to the United States of such interchanges.
(c) In accordance with section 414 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1934), the utilization of commercial channels for the exportation of unclassified privately owned technical information relating to articles designated as arms, ammunition, and implements of war in the United States Munitions List shall be subject to the regulations issued by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 414 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1934) (Title 22 CFR, chapter I, subchapter M). (The term “technical data” is used in those regulations to describe technical information relating to such articles).
(d) Technical information which might be privately owned may be released under paragraph (e) (1) or (2) of this section by Department of Defense Agencies to foreign governments if any one of the following conditions are met:
(1) The owner expressly consents to the proposed release;
(2) The United States, by contract or otherwise, has acquired or is entitled to acquire, the information under circumstances which permit the proposed release; or
(3) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned, or his designee, determines, under the authority of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, that:
(i) The exigencies of the requirement for release to further the common defense do not allow sufficient time to obtain the consent of the owner; or
(ii) The owner refuses consent and the best interests of the United States would be served by the release.
(e) In accordance with the provisions of the agreements referred to in § 264.3, the release to foreign governments by Department of Defense agencies of technical information which might be privately owned shall normally be in accord with the following two step procedure:
(1) Release for information only.
(2) Permission for manufacture, or use, for defense purposes.
(f)(1) All technical information, whether privately owned or government owned, released to a foreign government by Department of Defense Agencies shall be marked with the following restrictions:
1. This information is accepted for defense purposes only.
2. This information shall be accorded substantially the same degree of security protection as such information has in the United States.
3. This information shall not be disclosed to another country without the consent of the United States.
(2) When technical information which might be privately owned is released for information only, the restrictive marking shall also contain these additional notations:
4. This information is accepted upon the understanding that it might be privately owned.
5. This information is accepted solely for the purpose of information and shall accordingly be treated as disclosed in confidence. The recipient Government shall use its best endeavors to ensure that the information is not dealt with in any manner likely to prejudice the rights of the private owner thereof to obtain patent or other like statutory protection therefor.
6. The recipient Government shall obtain the consent of the United States if it desires that this information be made available for manufacture, or use, for defense purposes.
(g) When technical information which might be privately owned is released under the procedures set forth herein, the owner, if known, shall be furnished:
(1) Notice of the release;
(2) The identity of the recipient, if not contrary to security regulations;
(3) Notice that the recipient has been advised that the information might be privately owned; and
(4) Notice of the restrictions to which the release is subject.
§ 264.5
Claims for compensation.
(a) With respect to interchanges in furtherance of the purposes of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, section 506 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1758) provides the exclusive remedy for compensation for infringement within the United States of a patent issued by the United States and for damage resulting from the disclosure by the United States of privately owned technical information.
(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments are hereby authorized to exercise the power and authority conferred by section 506 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1758) to enter into agreements with claimants in full settlement and compromise of any claim against the United States thereunder, subject to such rules and regulations, if any, as the Secretary of Defense may promulgate from time to time. The Secretaries of the Military Departments are authorized to make successive redelegations in writing of this power and authority to any officer, employee, board
or agent of their respective departments.
(c) Funds appropriated for military assistance pursuant to the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended, which have been made available to a Military Department may be used to settle claims under section 506 of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1758). In addition, in those cases where the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2386 are applicable, funds appropriated for a Military Department available for making or procuring supplies may be used to settle such claims.
Pt. 269

# PART 269—CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY INFLATION ADJUSTMENT
Sec.
269.1
Scope and purpose.
269.2
Definitions.
269.3
Civil monetary penalty inflation adjustment.
269.4
Cost of living adjustments of civil monetary penalties.
269.5
Application of increase to violations.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 2461 note.

# Source:
61 FR 67945, Dec. 26, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 269.1
Scope and purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish a mechanism for the regular adjustment for inflation of civil monetary penalties under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense. Applicable civil monetary penalties must be adjusted in conformity with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134, April 26, 1996, and further amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Public Law 114-74, November 2, 2015, in order to improve the deterrent effect of civil monetary penalties and to promote compliance with the law.
[81 FR 33391, May 26, 2016]
§ 269.2
Definitions.
(a)
Department.
The Department of Defense.
(b)
Civil monetary penalty.
Any penalty, fine, or other sanction that:
(1)(i) Is for a specific monetary amount as provided by Federal law; or
(ii) Has a maximum amount provided by Federal law; and
(2) Is assessed or enforced by the Department pursuant to Federal law; and
(3) Is assessed or enforced pursuant to an administrative proceeding or a civil action in the Federal Courts.
(c)
Consumer Price Index.
The index for all urban consumers published by the Department of Labor.
[61 FR 67945, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 33391, May 26, 2016]
§ 269.3
Civil monetary penalty inflation adjustment.
The Department must, not later than July 1, 2016 and not later than January 15 of every year thereafter—
(a) By regulation, adjust each civil monetary penalty provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department by the inflation adjustment described in § 269.4; and
(b) Publish each such update in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 67945, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 33391, May 26, 2016]
§ 269.4
Cost of living adjustments of civil monetary penalties.
(a) The inflation adjustment under § 269.3 must be determined by increasing the maximum civil monetary penalty or the range of minimum and maximum civil monetary penalties, as applicable, for each civil monetary penalty by the cost-of-living adjustment. Any increase determined under this subsection shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “cost-of-living adjustment” means the percentage (if any) for each civil monetary penalty by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of October preceding the date of the adjustment (January 15), exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of October in the previous calendar year. For example, if the Consumer Price Index for October 2016 is 1.0 and the Consumer Price Index for October 2015 was 0.75, then all applicable penalties will need to be positively adjusted by 0.25 by January 15, 2017.
(c)
Limitation on initial adjustment.
The initial adjustment of civil monetary penalty pursuant to § 269.3 may not exceed 150 percent of such penalty.
(d)
Inflation adjustment.
Maximum civil monetary penalties within the jurisdiction of the Department are adjusted for inflation as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
d
)
United States Code
Civil monetary penalty description
Maximum penalty
amount as of
01/12/24
New adjusted
maximum penalty
amount
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2005, 10 U.S.C. 113, note
Unauthorized Activities Directed at or Possession of Sunken Military Craft
161,168
165,355
10 U.S.C. 1094(c)(1)
Unlawful Provision of Health Care
14,152
14,519
10 U.S.C. 1102(k)
Wrongful Disclosure—Medical Records:
First Offense
8,368
8,586
Subsequent Offense
55,788
57,237
10 U.S.C. 2674(c)(2)
Violation of the Pentagon Reservation Operation and Parking of Motor Vehicles Rules and Regulations
2,306
2,366
31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(1)
Violation Involving False Claim
13,946
14,308
31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(2)
Violation Involving False Statement
13,946
14,308
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(1)
False claims
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(1)
Claims submitted with a false certification of physician license
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(2)
Claims presented by excluded party
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(2); (b)(2) (ii)
Employing or contracting with an excluded individual
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(1)
Patterns of claims for medically unnecessary services/supplies
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(2)
Ordering or prescribing while excluded
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(5)
Known retention of an overpayment
24,946
25,594
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(4)
Making or using a false record or statement that is material to a false or fraudulent claim
124,731
127,972
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(6)
Failure to grant timely access to OIG for audits, investigations, evaluations, or other statutory functions of OIG
37,420
38,392
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.210(a)(3)
Making false statements, omissions, misrepresentations in an enrollment application
124,731
127,972
42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(a); 32 CFR 200.310(a)
Unlawfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for the referral of business in violation of 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act
124,731
127,972
[81 FR 33391, May 26, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 6249, Jan. 19, 2017; 83 FR 3078, Jan. 23, 2018; 84 FR 12099, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 13049, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 46600, Aug. 19, 2021; 87 FR 57147, Sept. 19, 2022; 88 FR 2240, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2146, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3695, Jan. 15, 2025]
§ 269.5
Application of increase to violations.
Any increase in a civil monetary penalty under this part must apply only to civil monetary penalties, including those whose associated violation predated such increase, which are assessed after the date the increase takes effect (
i.e.,
July 1, 2016).
[61 FR 67945, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 33391, May 26, 2016]
Pt. 273

# PART 273—DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION

# Subpart A—Disposal Guidance and Procedures
Sec.
273.1
Purpose.
273.2
Applicability.
273.3
Definitions.
273.4
Policy.
273.5
Responsibilities.
273.6
Procedures.
273.7
Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
273.8
Donations, loans, and exchanges.
273.9
Through-life traceability of uniquely identified items.

# Subpart B—Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
273.10
Purpose.
273.11
Applicability.
273.12
Definitions.
273.13
Policy.
273.14
Responsibilities.
273.15
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2194, 2208, 2557, 2572, 2576, 2576a, 2576b, 2577, 4683, 7306, 7545; 15 U.S.C. 3710(i); 22 U.S.C. 2151, 2321b, 2321j, 2751, and 2778
et seq.;
40 U.S.C. subtitle I and sections 101, 541
et seq.,
and 701; 42 U.S.C. 3015 and 3020; and 42 U.S.C. Chapter 68.

# Source:
80 FR 68159, Nov. 3, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Disposal Guidance and Procedures
§ 273.1
Purpose.
(a) This part is composed of several subparts, each containing its own purpose. In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive 5134.12, “Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR))” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/513412p.pdf
); DoD Instruction 4140.01, “Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414001p.pdf
); and DoD Instruction 4160.28, “DoD Demilitarization (DEMIL) Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028p.pdf
), this part:
(1) Prescribes uniform procedures for the disposition of DoD personal property.
(2) Establishes the sequence of processes for disposition of personal property of the DoD Components.
(b) This subpart:
(1) Implements the statutory authority and regulations under which DoD personal property disposal takes place, as well as the scope and applicability for the program.
(2) Defines the responsibilities of personnel and agencies involved in the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(3) Provides procedures for disposal of excess property and scrap.
(4) Provides procedures for property donations, loans, and exchanges.
§ 273.2
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this subpart as the “DoD Components”).
(b) If a procedural conflict exists, these references take precedence:
(1) 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 (also known as the Federal Property Management Regulations and Federal Management Regulation (FPMR and FMR)).
(2) 40 U.S.C. subtitle I, also known as the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act.
§ 273.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this subpart.
Abandonment and destruction (A/D).
A method for handling property that:
(1) Is abandoned and a diligent effort to determine the owner is unsuccessful.
(2) Is uneconomical to repair or the estimated costs of the continued care and handling of the property exceeds the estimated proceeds of sale.
(3) Has an estimated cost of disposal by A/D that is less than the net sales cost.
Accountability.
The obligation imposed by law, lawful order, or regulation, accepted by a person for keeping accurate records to ensure control of property, documents, or funds, with or without possession of the property. The person who is accountable is concerned with control while the person who has possession is responsible for custody, care, and safekeeping.
Acquisition cost.
The amount paid for property, including transportation costs, net any trade and cash discounts. Also see standard price.
Ammunition.
Generic term related mainly to articles of military application consisting of all kinds of bombs, grenades, rockets, mines, projectiles, and other similar devices or contrivances.
Automatic identification technology (AIT).
A suite of technologies enabling the automatic capture of data, thereby enhancing the ability to identify, track, document, and control assets (
e.g.
materiel), deploying and redeploying forces, equipment, personnel, and sustainment cargo. AIT encompasses a variety of data storage or carrier technologies, such as linear bar codes, two-dimensional symbols (PDF417 and Data Matrix), magnetic strips, integrated circuit cards, optical laser discs (optical memory cards or compact discs), satellite tracking transponders, and radio frequency identification tags used for marking or “tagging” individual items, equipment, air pallets, or containers. Known commercially as automatic identification data capture.
Batchlot.
The physical grouping of individual receipts of low-dollar-value property. The physical grouping consolidates multiple disposal turn-in documents (DTIDs) under a single cover DTID. The objective of batchlotting is to reduce the time and costs related to physical handling and administrative processes required for receiving items individually. The cover DTID establishes accountability in the accountable record and individual line items lose their identity.
Bid.
A response to an offer to sell that, if accepted, would bind the bidder to the terms and conditions of the contract (including the bid price).
Bidder.
Any entity that is responding to or has responded to an offer to sell.
Care and handling.
Includes packing, storing, handling, and conserving excess, surplus, and foreign excess property. In the case of property that is dangerous to public health, safety, or the environment, this includes destroying or rendering such property harmless.
Commercial off the shelf (COTS) software.
Software that is available through lease or purchase in the commercial market. Included in COTS are the operating system software that runs on the information technology equipment and other significant software purchased with a license that supports system or customer requirements.
Commerce control list (CCL) items
(formerly known as strategic list item). Commodities, software, and technology subject to export controls in accordance with Export Administration Regulations (EAR) in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. The EAR contains the CCL and is administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (DOC).
Component.
An item that is useful only when used in conjunction with an end item. Components are also commonly referred to as assemblies. For purposes of this definition an assembly and a component are the same. There are two types of components: Major components and minor components. A major component includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an end item without which the end item is inoperable. For example, for an automobile, components will include the engine, transmission, and battery. If you do not have all those items, the automobile will not function, or function as effectively. A minor component includes any assembled element of a major component. Components consist of parts. References in the CCL to components include both major components and minor components.
Container.
Any portable device in which a materiel is stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise handled, including those whose last content was a hazardous or an acutely hazardous material, waste, or substance.
Continental United States (CONUS).
Territory, including the adjacent territorial waters, located within the North American continent between Canada and Mexico (comprises 48 States and the District of Columbia).
Controlled substances.
(1) Any narcotic, depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic drug or any other drug or other substance or immediate precursor included in 21 U.S.C. 801. Exempted chemical preparations and mixtures and excluded substances are listed in 21 CFR part 1308.
(2) Any other drug or substance that the United States Attorney General determines to be subject to control in accordance with 21 CFR part 1308.
(3) Any other drug or substance that, by international treaty, convention, or
protocol, is to be controlled by the United States.
Counterfeit.
A counterfeit part is one whose identity has been deliberately altered, misrepresented, or is offered as an unauthorized product substitution.
Defective property.
An item, part, or component that does not meet military, Federal, or commercial specifications as required by military procurement contracts because of unserviceability, finite life, or product quality deficiency and is determined to be unsafe for use. Defective property may be dangerous to public health or safety by virtue of latent defects. These defects are identified by technical inspection methods; or condemned by maintenance or other authorized activities as a result of destructive and nondestructive test methods such as magnetic particle, liquid penetrant, or radiographic testing, which reveal defects not apparent from normal visual inspection methods.
Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services Automated Information System (DAISY).
An automated property accounting management data system designed to process property through the necessary disposal steps and account for excess, surplus, and foreign excess personal property (FEPP) from receipt to final disposal.
Demilitarization.
The act of eliminating the functional capabilities and inherent military design features from DoD personal property. Methods and degree range from removal and destruction of critical features to total destruction by cutting, crushing, shredding, melting, burning, etc. DEMIL is required to prevent property from being used for its originally intended purpose and to prevent the release of inherent design information that could be used against the United States. DEMIL applies to material in both serviceable and unserviceable condition.
Disposal.
End-of-life tasks or actions for residual materials resulting from demilitarization or disposition operations.
Disposition.
The process of reusing, recycling, converting, redistributing, transferring, donating, selling, demilitarizing, treating, destroying, or fulfilling other end of life tasks or actions for DoD property. Does not include real (real estate) property.
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Disposition Services.
The organization provides DoD with worldwide reuse, recycling and disposal solutions that focus on efficiency, cost avoidance and compliance.
DLA Disposition Services site.
The DLA Disposition Services office that has accountability for and control over disposable property. May be managed in part by a commercial contractor. The term is applicable whether the disposal facility is on a commercial site or a Government installation and applies to both Government and contractor employees performing the disposal mission.
DoD Activity Address Code (DoDAAC).
A 6-digit code assigned by the Defense Automatic Addressing Service to provide a standardized address code system for identifying activities and for use in transmission of supply and logistics information that supports the movement of property.
DoD Item Unique Identification (IUID) Registry.
The DoD data repository that receives input from both industry and Government sources and provides storage of, and access to, data that identifies and describes tangible Government personal property.
Donation.
The act of providing surplus personal property at no charge to a qualified donation recipient, as allocated by the General Services Administration (GSA).
Donation recipient.
Any of the following entities that receive federal surplus personal property through State agencies for surplus property (SASP):
(1) A Service educational activity (SEA).
(2) A public agency that uses surplus personal property to carry out or promote one or more public purposes. (Public airports are an exception and are only considered donation recipients when they elect to receive surplus property through a SASP, but not when they elect to receive surplus property through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).)
(3) An eligible nonprofit tax-exempt educational or public health institution (including a provider of assistance
to homeless or impoverished families or individuals).
(4) A State or local government agency, or a nonprofit organization or institution, that receives funds appropriated for a program for older individuals.
Educational institution.
An approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution or facility, entity, or organization conducting educational programs, including research for any such programs, such as a childcare center, school, college, university, school for the mentally handicapped, school for the physically handicapped, or an educational radio or television station.
Excess personal property.
(1)
Domestic excess.
Government personal property that the United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA (
i.e.,
the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands), consider excess to the needs and mission requirements of the United States.
(2)
DoD Component excess.
Items of DoD Component owned property that are not required for their needs and the discharge of their responsibilities as determined by the head of the Service or Agency.
(3)
Foreign excess personal property (FEPP).
U.S.-owned excess personal property that is located outside the zone of interior (ZI). This property becomes surplus and is eligible for donation and sale as described in § 273.7.
Exchange.
Replace personal property by trade or trade-in with the supplier of the replacement property. To exchange non-excess, non-surplus personal property and apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or in part payment for the acquisition of similar property. For example, the replacement of a historical artifact with another historical artifact by trade; or to exchange an item of historical property or goods for services based on the fair market value of the artifact.
Federal civilian agency (FCA).
Any non-defense executive agency (
e.g.
DoS, Department of Homeland Security) or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the U.S. Government (USG) (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his or her direction).
FEPP.
See excess personal property.
Firearm.
Any weapon (including a starter gun) that will or is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive; the frame or receiver of any such weapon; any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or any destructive device. The term does not include an antique firearm.
Flight safety critical air parts (FSCAP).
Any aircraft part, assembly, or installation containing a critical characteristic whose failure, malfunction, or absence could cause a catastrophic failure resulting in loss or serious damage to the aircraft or an uncommanded engine shutdown, resulting in an unsafe condition.
Foreign purchased property.
Property paid for by foreign countries, but where ownership is retained by the United States.
Friendly foreign government.
For purposes of trade security controls (TSC), governments of countries other than those designated as restricted parties.
Generating activity (“generator”).
The activity that declares personal property excess to its needs,
e.g.
DoD installations, activities, contractors, or FCAs.
Government-furnished material (GFM).
Property provided by the U.S. Government for the purpose of being incorporated into or attached to a deliverable end item or that will be consumed or expended in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel includes assemblies, components, parts, raw and process material, and small tools and supplies that may be consumed in normal use in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel does not include material provided to contractors on a cash-sale basis nor does it include military property, which are government-owned components, contractor acquired property (as specified in the contract), government furnished equipment, or major end items being repaired by commercial
contractors for return to the government.
GSAXcess®.
A totally web-enabled platform that eligible customers use to access functions of GSAXcess® for reporting, searching, and selecting property. This includes the entry site for the Federal Excess Personal Property Utilization Program and the Federal Surplus Personal Property Donation Program operated by the GSA.
Historical artifact.
Items (including books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, and models) identified by a museum director or curator as significant to the history of that department, acquired from approved sources, and suitable for display in a military museum. Generally, such determinations are based on the item's association with an important person, event, or place; because of traditional association with an important person, event, or place; because of traditional association with a military organization; or because it is a representative example of military equipment or represents a significant technological contribution to military science or equipment.
Hazardous material (HM).
(1) In the United States, any material that is capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety, and property during transportation. All HM appears in the HM Table at 49 CFR 172.101.
(2) Overseas, HM is defined in the applicable final governing standards or overseas environmental baseline guidance document, or host nation laws and regulations.
Hazardous property (HP).
(1) A composite term used to describe DoD excess property, surplus property, and FEPP, which may be hazardous to human health, human safety, or the environment. Various Federal, State, and local safety and environmental laws regulate the use and disposal of hazardous property.
(2) In more technical terms, HP includes property having one or more of the following characteristics:
(i) Has a flashpoint below 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius) closed cup, or is subject to spontaneous heating or is subject to polymerization with release of large amounts of energy when handled, stored, and shipped without adequate control.
(ii) Has a threshold limit value equal to or below 1,000 parts per million (ppm) for gases and vapors, below 500 milligram per cubic meter (mg/m
3
) for fumes, and equal to or less than 30 million particles per cubic foot (mppcf) or 10 mg/m
3
for dusts (less than or equal to 2.0 fibers/cc greater than 5 micrometers in length for fibrous materials).
(iii) Causes 50 percent fatalities to test animals when a single oral dose is administered in doses of less than 500 mg per kilogram of test animal weight.
(iv) Is a flammable solid as defined in 49 CFR 173.124, or is an oxidizer as defined in 49 CFR 173.127, or is a strong oxidizing or reducing agent with a half cell potential in acid solution of greater than +1.0 volt as specified in Latimer's table on the oxidation-reduction potential.
(v) Causes first-degree burns to skin in short-time exposure, or is systematically toxic by skin contact.
(vi) May produce dust, gases, fumes, vapors, mists, or smoke with one or more of the above characteristics in the course of normal operations.
(vii) Produces sensitizing or irritating effects.
(viii) Is radioactive.
(ix) Has special characteristics which, in the opinion of the manufacturer, could cause harm to personnel if used or stored improperly.
(x) Is hazardous in accordance with Occupational Health and Safety Administration, 29 CFR part 1910.
(xi) Is hazardous in accordance with 29 CFR part 1910.
(xii) Is regulated by the EPA in accordance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 280.
Hazardous waste (HW).
An item that is regulated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6901 or by State regulation as an HW. HW is defined federally at 40 CFR part 261. Overseas, HW is defined in the applicable final governing standards or overseas environmental baseline guidance document, or host nation laws and regulations.
Holding agency.
The Federal agency that is accountable for, and generally has possession of, the property involved.
Hold harmless.
A promise to pay any costs or claims which may result from an agreement.
Information technology.
Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data or information by the DoD Component. Includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related sources. Does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. Equipment is “used” by a DoD Component if the equipment is used by the DoD Component directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the DoD Component that:
(1) Requires the use of such equipment.
(2) Requires the use to a significant extent of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product.
Installation.
A military facility together with its buildings, building equipment, and subsidiary facilities such as piers, spurs, access roads, and beacons.
International organizations.
For TSC purposes, this term includes: Columbo Plan Council for Technical Cooperation in South and Southeast Asia; European Atomic Energy Community; Indus Basin Development; International Atomic Energy; International Red Cross; NATO; Organization of American States; Pan American Health Organization; United Nations; UN Children's Fund; UN Development Program; UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization; UN High Commissioner for Refugees Programs; UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East; World Health Organization; and other international organizations approved by a U.S. diplomatic mission.
Interrogation.
A communication between two or more ICPs, other DoD activities, and U.S. Government agencies to determine the current availability of an item or suitable substitute for a needed item before procurement or repair.
Interservice.
Action by one Military Department or Defense Agency ICP to provide materiel and directly related services to another Military Department or Defense Agency ICP (either on a recurring or nonrecurring basis).
Inventory adjustments.
Changes made in inventory quantities and values resulting from inventory recounts and validations.
Inventory control point (ICP).
An organizational unit or activity within the DoD supply system that is assigned the primary responsibility for the materiel management of a group of items either for a particular Military Department or for the DoD as a whole. In addition to materiel manager functions, an ICP may perform other logistics functions in support of a particular Military Department or for a particular end item (
e.g.,
centralized computation of retail requirements levels and engineering tasks associated with weapon system components).
Item unique identification (IUID).
A system of establishing globally widespread unique identifiers on items of supply within the DoD, which serves to distinguish a discrete entity or relationship from other like and unlike entities or relationships. AIT is used to capture and communicate IUID information.
Line item.
A single line entry on a reporting form or sale document that indicates a quantity of property located at any one activity having the same description, condition code, and unit cost.
Line item value
(for reporting and other accounting and approval purposes). Quantity of a line item multiplied by the standard price.
Marketing.
The function of directing the flow of surplus and FEPP to the buyer, encompassing all related aspects of merchandising, market research, sale promotion, advertising, publicity, and selling.
Material potentially presenting an explosive hazard (MPPEH).
Material owned or controlled by the Department of Defense that, prior to determination of its explosives safety status, potentially contains explosives or munitions (
e.g.,
munitions containers and packaging material; munitions debris remaining after munitions use, demilitarization, or disposal; and range-related debris) or potentially contains a
high enough concentration of explosives that the material presents an explosive hazard (
e.g.,
equipment, drainage systems, holding tanks, piping, or ventilation ducts that were associated with munitions production, demilitarization, or disposal operations). Excluded from MPPEH are munitions within the DoD-established munitions management system and other items that may present explosion hazards (
e.g.,
gasoline cans and compressed gas cylinders) that are not munitions and are not intended for use as munitions.
Metalworking machinery.
A category of plant equipment consisting of power driven nonportable machines in Federal Supply Classification Code (four digits) (FSC) 3411 through 3419 and 3441 through 3449, which are used or capable of use in the manufacture of supplies or equipment, or in the performance of services, or for any administrative or general plant purpose.
Munitions list items (MLI).
Any item contained on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) in 22 CFR part 121. Defense articles, associated technical data (including software), and defense services recorded or stored in any physical form, controlled for export and permanent import by 22 CFR parts 120 through 130. 22 CFR part 121, which contains the USML, is administered by the DoS Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
Museum, DoD or Service.
An appropriated fund entity that is a permanent activity with a historical collection, open to both the military and civilian public at regularly scheduled hours, and is in the care of a professional qualified staff that performs curatorial and related historical duties full time.
Mutilation.
A process that renders materiel unfit for its originally intended purposes by cutting, tearing, scratching, crushing, breaking, punching, shearing, burning, neutralizing, etc.
NAF property.
Property purchased with NAFs, by religious activities or nonappropriated morale welfare or recreational activities, post exchanges, ships stores, officer and noncommissioned officer clubs, and similar activities. Such property is not Federal property.
Narcotics.
See controlled substances.
National stock number (NSN).
The 13-digit stock number replacing the 11-digit federal stock number. It consists of the 4-digit federal supply classification code and the 9-digit national item identification number. The national item identification number consists of a 2-digit National Codification Bureau number designating the central cataloging office (whether North Atlantic Treaty Organization or other friendly country) that assigned the number and a 7-digit (xxx-xxxx) nonsignificant number. Arrange the number as follows: 9999-00-999-9999.
Nonappropriated fund (NAF).
Funds generated by DoD military and civilian personnel and their dependents and used to augment funds appropriated by Congress to provide a comprehensive, morale building, welfare, religious, educational, and recreational program, designed to improve the well-being of military and civilian personnel and their dependents.
Nonprofit institution.
An institution or organization, no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and which has been held to be tax exempt under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 501, also known as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Nonsalable materiel.
Materiel that has no reutilization, transfer, donation, or sale value as determined by the DLA Disposition Services site, but is not otherwise restricted from disposal by U.S. law or Federal or military regulations.
Obsolete combat materiel.
Military equipment once used in a primarily combat role that has been phased out of operational use; if replaced, the replacement items are of a more current design or capability.
Ordnance.
Explosives, chemicals, pyrotechnics, and similar stores,
e.g.,
bombs, guns and ammunition, flares, smoke, or napalm.
ppm.
Unit of concentration by volume of a specific substance.
Personal property.
Property except real property. Excludes records of the Federal Government, battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.
Pilferable materiel.
Materiel having a ready resale value or application to personal possession, which is especially subject to theft.
Plant equipment.
Personal property of a capital nature (including equipment, machine tools, test equipment, furniture, vehicles, and accessory and auxiliary items) for use in manufacturing supplies, in performing services, or for any administrative or general plant purpose. It does not include special tooling or special test equipment.
Precious metals.
Gold, silver, and the platinum group metals (platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium).
Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP).
A DoD program for identification, accumulation, recovery, and refinement of precious metals from excess and surplus end items, scrap, hypo solution, and other precious metal bearing materiel for authorized internal purposes or as GFM.
Pre-receipt.
Documentation processed prior to physically transferring or turning the property into a DLA Disposition Services site.
Privacy Act property.
Any document or other information about an individual maintained by the agency, whether collected or grouped, including but not limited to, information regarding education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal or employment history, or other personal information containing the name or other personal identification number, symbol, etc., assigned to such individual.
Privately owned personal property.
Personal effects of DoD personnel (military or civilian) that are not, nor will ever become, Government property unless the owner (or heirs, next of kin, or legal representative of the owner) executes a written and signed release document unconditionally giving the U.S. Government all right, title, and interest in the privately owned property.
Public agency.
Any State, political subdivision thereof, including any unit of local government or economic development district; or any department, agency, instrumentality thereof, including instrumentalities created by compact or other agreement between States or political subdivisions, multi-jurisdictional substate districts established by or under State law; or any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community located on a State reservation. (See § 273.8 regarding donations made through State agencies.)
Qualified recycling programs (QRP).
Organized operations that require concerted efforts to cost effectively divert or recover scrap or waste, as well as efforts to identify, segregate, and maintain the integrity of recyclable materiel to maintain or enhance its marketability. If administered by a DoD Component other than DLA, a QRP includes adherence to a control process providing accountability for all materials processed through program operations.
Reclamation.
A cost avoidance or savings measure to recover useful (serviceable) end items, repair parts, components, or assemblies from one or more principal end items of equipment or assemblies (usually supply condition codes (SCCs) listed in DLM 4000.25-2 as SCC H for unserviceable (condemned) materiel, SCC P for unserviceable (reclamation) materiel, and SCC R for suspended (reclaimed items, awaiting condition determination) materiel) for the purpose of restoration to use through replacement or repair of one or more unserviceable, but repairable principal end items of equipment or assemblies (usually SCCs listed in DLM 4000.25-2 as SCC E for unserviceable (limited restoration) materiel, SCC F for unserviceable (reparable) materiel, and SCC G for unserviceable (incomplete) materiel). Reclamation is preferable prior to disposition (
e.g.,
DLA Disposition Services site turn-in), but end items or assemblies may be withdrawn from DLA Disposition Services sites for such reclamation purposes.
Restricted parties.
Those countries or entities that the Department of State (DoS), DOC, or Treasury have determined to be prohibited or sanctioned for the purpose of export, sale, transfer, or resale of items controlled on the United States Munitions List (USML) or Commerce Control List. A consolidated list of prohibited entities or destinations for which transfers may be limited or barred, may be found at:
http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp.
Reutilization.
The act of re-issuing FEPP and excess property to DoD Components. Also includes qualified special programs (
e.g.,
Law Enforcement Agency (LEA), Humanitarian Assistance Program, Military Affiliate Radio System (MARS)) pursuant to applicable enabling statutes.
Salvage.
Personal property that has some value in excess of its basic material content, but is in such condition that it has no reasonable prospect of use as a unit for the purpose for which it was originally intended, and its repair or rehabilitation for use as a unit is impracticable.
Scrap.
Recyclable waste and discarded materials derived from items that have been rendered useless beyond repair, rehabilitation, or restoration such that the item's original identity, utility, form, fit and function have been destroyed. Items can be classified as scrap if processed by cutting, tearing, crushing, mangling, shredding, or melting. Intact or recognizable USML or CCL items, components, and parts are not scrap. 41 CFR 102-36.40 and 15 CFR 770.2 provide additional information on scrap.
Screening.
The process of physically inspecting property or reviewing lists or reports of property to determine whether it is usable or needed.
Sensitive items.
Materiel that requires a high degree of protection and control due to statutory requirements or regulations, such as narcotics and drug abuse items; precious metals; items of high value; items that are highly technical, or of a hazardous nature; non-nuclear missiles, rockets, and explosives; small arms, ammunition and explosives, and demolition material.
Service educational activity (SEA).
Any educational activity that meets specified criteria and is formally designated by the Department of Defense as being of special interest to the Military Services. Includes educational activities such as maritime academies or military, naval, or Air Force preparatory schools, junior colleges, and institutes; senior high school-hosted Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps; and nationally organized youth groups. The primary purpose of such entities is to offer courses of instruction devoted to the military arts and sciences.
Small arms/light weapons.
Man-portable weapons made or modified to military specifications for use as lethal instruments of war that expel a shot, bullet, or projectile by action of an explosive. Small arms are broadly categorized as those weapons intended for use by individual members of armed or security forces. They include handguns; rifles and carbines; sub-machine guns; and light machine guns. Light weapons are broadly categorized as those weapons designed for use by two or three members of armed or security forces serving as a crew, although some may be used by a single person. They include heavy machine guns; hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers; portable anti-aircraft guns; portable anti-tank guns; recoilless rifles; man-portable launchers of missile and rocket systems; and mortars.
Standard price.
The price customers are charged for a DoD managed item (excluding subsistence), which remains constant throughout a fiscal year. The standard price is based on various factors which include the latest acquisition price of the item plus surcharges or cost recovery elements for transportation, inventory loss, obsolescence, maintenance, depreciation, and supply operations.
State agencies for surplus property (SASP).
The agency designated under State law to receive Federal surplus personal property for distribution to eligible donation recipients within the States as provided for in 40 U.S.C. 549.
State or local government.
A State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof.
Supply condition codes (SCC).
Code used to classify materiel in terms of readiness for issue and use or to identify action underway to change the status of materiel. These codes are assigned by the Military Departments or Defense Agencies. DLA Disposition Services may change a SCC if there is an appearance of an improperly assigned code and the property is of a non-technical nature. If change is not
appropriate or property is of a technical nature, DLA Disposition Services sites may challenge a suspicious SCC.
Surplus personal property.
Excess personal property no longer required by the Federal agencies, as determined by the Administrator of General Services. Applies to surplus personal property in the United States, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Trade security controls (TSC).
Policy and procedures, in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08, designed to prevent the sale or shipment of USG materiel to any person, organization, or country whose interests are unfriendly or hostile to those of the United States and to ensure that the disposal of DoD personal property is performed in compliance with U.S. export control laws and regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
Transfer.
The act of providing FEPP and excess personal property to Federal civilian agencies (FCAs) as stipulated in the FMR. Property is allocated by the GSA. When a line item is less than $10,000, an FCA may coordinate allocation to another FCA directly.
Trash.
Post-consumer refuse, waste and food by-products such as litter, rubbish, cooked grease, bones, fats, and meat trimmings.
Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System (UMMIPS).
System to ensure that requirements are processed in accordance with the mission of the requiring activity and the urgency of need, and to establish maximum uniform order and materiel movement standard.
Unique item identifier (UII).
A set of data elements marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous. The term includes a concatenated UII or a DoD-recognized unique identification equivalent.
Unsalable materiel.
Materiel for which sale or other disposal is prohibited by U.S. law or Federal or military regulations.
Usable property.
Commercial and military type property other than scrap and waste.
Veterans' organization.
An organization composed of honorably discharged soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, which is established as a veterans' organization and recognized as such by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
Zone of interior (ZI).
The United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA and where excess property is considered domestic excess. Includes the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
§ 273.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy consistent with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 that excess DoD property must be screened and redistributed among the DoD Components, and reported as excess to the GSA. Pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 701, DoD will efficiently and economically dispose DoD FEPP.
§ 273.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT
L), and in accordance with DoD Directive 5134.12:
(1) Develops DoD materiel disposition policies, including policies for FEPP.
(2) Oversees the effective implementation of the DoD materiel disposition program.
(3) Approves policy changes as appropriate to support contingency operations.
(4) Approves national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs, and approve categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.
(b) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR)), and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Provides agency-level command and control and administers the worldwide Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(2) Implements guidance issued by the ASD(L
MR) or other organizational elements of the OSD and establishes system concepts and requirements, resource management, program guidance, budgeting and funding, training and career development, management review and analysis, internal control measures, and crime prevention for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(3) Chairs the Disposal Policy Working Group (DPWG).
(4) Provides direction to the DLA Disposition Services on implementing the worldwide defense materiel disposition program.
(5) Provides direction to the DLA inventory control points (ICPs) on the cataloging of items in the Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) as outlined in DoD 4100.39-M, “Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) Procedures Manual-Glossary and Volumes 1-16” (available at
whs/directives/corres/html/410039m.html
). This is done to prevent the unauthorized disposition or release of items within DoD, other federal civilian agencies, or release into commerce.
(6) Promotes maximum reuse of FEPP, excess, and surplus property. Pursues all possible avenues to sponsor or endorse reuse of excess DoD property and preclude unnecessary purchases.
(7) Directs the DLA Disposition Services communications with the DoD Components regarding changes in service delivery processes or plans that will affect disposal support provided. In overseas locations, these communications will include geographic Combatant Commanders, U.S. Chiefs of Mission, and the in-country security assistance offices.
(8) Accommodates contingency operation requirements. Directs the DLA support team to determine any needed deviations from standard disposal processing guidance and communicates approved temporary changes to the Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services.
(9) Ensures maximum compatibility between documentation, procedures, codes, and formats used in materiel disposition systems and the Military Departments' supply systems.
(10) Programs, budgets, funds, accounts, allocates and controls personnel, spaces, and other resources for its respective activities.
(11) Annually provides to GSA a report of property transferred to non-federal recipients in accordance with 41 CFR 102-36.295.
(12) Assumes the worldwide disposal of all DoD HP except for those categories specifically designated to remain the responsibility of the Military Department or Defense Agency as described in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
(13) Ensures property disposal training courses are available (
e.g.
, at DLA Training Center) for all personnel associated with the disposal program.
(14) Ensures DLA Disposition Services follows the DoD disposal hierarchy with landfill disposal as a last resort.
(c) The DoD Components Heads:
(1) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program policy changes to the ASD(L
MR).
(2) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program procedural changes to the Director, DLA, and provide information copies to the ASD(L
MR).
(3) Assist the Director, DLA, upon request, to resolve matters of mutual concern.
(4) Treat the disposal of DoD property as an integral part of DoD Supply Chain Management; ensure that disposal actions and costs are a part of each stage of the supply chain management of items and that disposal of property is a planned event at all levels of their organizations.
(5) Provide the Director, DLA, with mutually agreed-upon data necessary to administer the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(6) Participate in the DoD PMRP and promote maximum reutilization of FEPP, excess, and surplus property and fine precious metals for internal use or as GFM.
(7) Nominate to the ASD(L
MR) national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs; approve schools (non-national organizations) as
SEAs; and recommend to the ASD(L
MR) categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.
(8) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities, for the operations of tenant and related off-site DLA Disposition Services field activities under inter-Service support agreements (ISSAs).
(9) For property not explicitly identified in this part, follow Service-unique regulations to dispose of and maintain accountability of property. Ensure all accountable records associated with the disposal of FEPP, excess, and surplus property are established and updated to reflect supply status and ensure audit ability in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64, “Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable Property” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/500064p.pdf
). This requirement also applies to modified processes that may be developed for contingency operations.
(10) Ensure completion of property disposition (reutilization and marketing) training courses, as appropriate.
(11) Administer reclamation programs and accomplish reclamation from excess materiel.
(12) Establish and administer disposal accounts, as jointly agreed to by DLA and the Military Departments, to support the demilitarization (DEMIL) and reclamation functions performed by the Military Departments.
(13) Dispose of surplus merchant vessels or vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more, capable of conversion to merchant use, through the Federal Maritime Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, by forwarding a “Report of Excess Personal Property” Standard Form 120 to GSA, in accordance with the procedures in 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102. For vessels explicitly excluded by 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, follow procedures in DoD 4160.28-M, Volumes 1-3, “Defense Demilitarization: Program Administration, Demilitarization Coding, Procedural Guidance” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol1.pdf
,
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol2.pdf
,
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/416028m_vol3.pdf
),
i.e.
, battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, or submarines.
(14) Dispose of HP specifically designated as requiring DoD Component processing.
(15) Request DLA Disposition Services provide sales services, as needed, for recyclable marketable materials generated as a result of resource recovery programs through the DoD Component QRP in accordance with the procedures in § 273.7.
(16) Consider public donation if applicable before landfill disposal and monitor, with DLA Disposition Services Site personnel, all property sent to landfills to ensure no economically salable or recyclable property is discarded.
(17) Report, accurately identify on approved turn in documents, and turn in all authorized scrap generations to servicing DLA Disposition Services sites.
(18) Update the DoD IUID Registry upon the materiel disposition of uniquely identified items in accordance with the procedures in § 273.9.
(19) Improve disposal policies, training, and procedural implementation among the DoD Components and Federal civilian agencies through membership on the DPWG.
§ 273.6
Procedures.
(a)
Personal property disposition.
The general guidelines and procedures for property disposition are:
(1) 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 implements 40 U.S.C. subtitle I and section 101 which established the Personal Property Disposition Program. 41 CFR chapter 101 and other laws and regulations apply to the disposition of FEPP, excess, and surplus property. In the event of conflicting guidance, 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 takes precedence. 41 CFR chapter 102 is the successor regulation to 41 CFR chapter 101, the “Federal Property Management Regulation”. It updates regulatory policies of 41 CFR chapter 101.
(2) All references to “days” are calendar days unless otherwise specified.
(3) The Department of Defense provides guidance for budgeting for the disposal of excess, surplus, and FEPP
property through DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs): Volume 12, `Special Accounts Funds and Programs'; Chapter 7, `Financial Liability for Government Property Lost, Damaged, Destroyed, or Stolen' ” (
http://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_12.pdf
), with updates via program budget decisions. The Service level billing is based on the services turn-in percentage of the Disposition Services workload. As an example, if the Army constitutes 40 percent of the workload the Army will pay 40 percent of the Disposition Services Service-level bill.
(i) Billings are addressed to each Military Department, Defense Agency, and FCA.
(ii) Billing for disposition of excess property depends on decisions made between DLA and the customer: the Military Department, Defense Agency, those sponsoring DoD-related organizations (
e.g.
, Civil Air Patrol, MARS) or FCA.
(b)
Scope and relevancy.
(1) In conjunction with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, the provisions of this part apply to service providers, whether they are working at a government facility or at a commercial site, and to contractors to the extent it is stipulated in the performance work statement of the contracts. DoD 4160.28-M and 10 U.S.C. 2576 contain additional specific guidance for property identified as MLI or CCL items.
(2) The procedures in this subpart will be used to the extent possible in all contingency operations. As appropriate, the ASD(L
MR) will modify policy guidance to support the mission requirements and operational tempo of contingency operations.
(3) This subpart does not govern the disposal of the property described in paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section. However, once property in these categories has been altered to remove the inherently sensitive characteristics, it may be processed through a DLA Disposition Services site using an appropriate FSC code for the remaining components.
(i)
Items under management control of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency in Federal Supply Group (FSG) 11.
These items include Department of Energy special design and quality controlled items and all DoD items designed specifically for use on or with nuclear weapons. These items are identified by manufacturers' codes 57991, 67991, 77991, and 87991 in the DLA Logistics Information Service FLIS. These items will be processed in accordance with Air Force Instruction 21-204, “Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures” (available at
http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4_7/publication/afi21-204/afi21-204.pdf
).
(ii)
Cryptologic and cryptographic materiel.
This materiel must be processed in accordance with Committee on National Security Systems Instruction 4008, “Program for the Management and Use of National Reserve Information Assurance Security Equipment” (available at
https://www.cnss.gov/Assets/pdf/CNSSI-4008.pdf
).
(iii)
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Plant materiel.
This materiel must be processed in accordance with Office of the Chief of Naval Operations Instruction (OPNAVINST) N9210.3, “Safeguarding of Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI)” (available at
http://doni.daps.dla.mil/Directives/09000%20General%20Ship%20Design%20and%20Support/09-200%20Propulsion%20Plants%20Support/N9210.3%20(Unclas%20Portion).pdf
and 45 Manual NAVSEA S9213-45-Man-000, “Naval Nuclear Material Management Manual.”
(c)
Objectives.
The objectives of the Defense Materiel Disposition Program are to:
(1) Provide standardized disposition management guidance for DoD excess property and FEPP (including scrap) and HP, by using efficient internal and external processes. The expected outcome includes protecting national security interests, minimizing environmental mishaps, satisfying valid needs by extended use of property, permitting authorized donations, obtaining optimum monetary return to the U.S. Government, and minimizing abandonment or destruction (A/D) of property.
(2) Migrate from legacy transactions with 80 record position formats applicable to military standard system procedures (
e.g.
, Defense Logistics Manual (DLM) 4000.25-1, “Military Standard
Requisitioning and Issue Procedures (MILSTRIP)” (available at
http://www2.dla.mil/j-6/dlmso/elibrary/Manuals/DLM/MILSTRIP/MILSTRIP.pdf
) and DLM 4000.25-2, “Military Standard Transaction Reporting and Accounting Procedures (MILSTRAP)” (available at
http://www2.dla.mil/j-6/dlmso/elibrary/Manuals/DLM/MILSTRAP/MILSTRAP.pdf
) to variable length DLMS transactions as described in DLM 4000.25, “Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS)” (available at
http://www2.dla.mil/j-6/dlmso/elibrary/Manuals/DLM/DLM_4000.25_DLMS_Manual_Combined.pdf
) (American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee (ANSI ASC) X12 or equivalent XML schema) to track items throughout the supply chain life cycle. Implementation must be consistent with DoD Directive 8320.02, “Data Sharing in a Net Centric Department of Defense” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/832002p.pdf
).
(3) Ensure cost-effective disposal of precious metals bearing scrap and end items for the replenishment of valuable resources through the DoD PMRP.
(4) Ensure personal property and related subcomponents are not declared excess and disposed of prior to determining the need for economic recovery.
(5) Encourage Military Departments and Defense Agencies to:
(i) Comply with the spirit and intent of Executive Order 12862, “Setting Customer Service Standards.”
(ii) Set results-oriented goals, such as delivering customer value that results in improvement of overall Military Department performance.
(iii) Serve the tax payer's interests by ensuring tax money is used wisely and by being responsive and reliable in all dealings with the public.
(d)
Foreign liaison.
(1) Authority for granting visits by foreign nationals representing foreign governments rests with the International Programs Division (J-347) at DLA. Prospective official foreign visitors should submit requests 30 days in advance through their embassy in accordance with procedures in DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523020p.pdf
). These requests may require a security clearance from the host Military Department. DLA processes the requests, and will provide written authority to primary-level field activity commanders or DLA Disposition Services site chiefs. Unclassified visits by foreign nationals can be approved for inspections prior to acquiring property through security assistance programs or other programs authorized by statute.
(2) A commander of a DoD activity may authorize foreign nationals and representatives of foreign governments or international organizations to visit a DLA Disposition Services site, except for those foreign nationals and representatives from foreign countries designated as restricted parties in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
(3) Visits by foreign nationals for public sales will be at the discretion of the host installation commander in accordance with U.S. export control laws and regulations, the ITAR in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
(4) All requests for unclassified information, not previously approved for public release will be referred to the appropriate public affairs office. This includes requests submitted by representatives of foreign governments or representatives of international organizations.
(5) Requests from foreign nationals or representatives from foreign governments of restricted parties will be referred to the appropriate security office.
(6) Release of MLI technical data or CCL items technology will be in accordance with DoD 4100.39-M, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, 10 U.S.C. 2576, 22 CFR parts 120 to 130, and 15 CFR parts 730 to 774, DoD Instruction 2040.02, and DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(e)
Training.
Personnel with Materiel Disposition Program responsibilities (DLA Disposition Services employees, ICP integrated materiel managers (IMMs), Reservists, etc.) as well as those DoD-related and non-DoD organizations disposing of excess, surplus,
FEPP, and scrap through the Department of Defense, require applicable training in defense materiel disposition policies, procedures, and related technical areas such as safety, environmental protection, DEMIL, TSC, accounting and accountability, administration, or management of those activities. Required training will be accomplished according to DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 and DoD Instruction 2030.08, and applicable DoD, DLA, and Military Department training issuances. In addition to formal training, the DLA Disposition Services Web site (
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil
) provides guidance on various topics related to materiel disposition.
(f)
DoD Components.
The DoD Components:
(1) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities for the segregation of material according to the established ISSAs.
(i) Establish disposal facilities at suitable locations, separate from host installation active stocks. These areas should permit proper materiel segregation and be convenient to road networks and railroad sidings.
(ii) Approve all facility improvement projects. Identify in the ISSA reimbursable and non-reimbursable host maintenance and repair support, not exceeding that prescribed by regulations of the host activity.
(iii) Fence or otherwise protect the disposal yard to ensure that materiel is safeguarded against theft or pilferage. Security matters identified in ISSAs are covered by security regulations of the DoD Components.
(iv) Provide information security support to DLA Disposition Services field activities through ISSAs, including the retrieval, secure storage, and subsequent determination of the appropriate disposition of classified property found in disposal assets.
(2) Properly containerize and ensure all property turned in to DLA Disposition Services sites is safe to handle and non-leaking to ensure environmental compliance during transport to the DLA Disposition Services site and storage during the disposal process. Drain all fluids from unserviceable vehicles prior to release to disposal and treat fluids according to environmental requirements in accordance with the procedures in Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4, “Defense Materiel Disposition Manual: Instructions for Hazardous Property and Other Special Processing Materiel”.
(3) Ensure HW storage facilities meet all applicable environmental standards and requirements, including 40 CFR parts 262, 264, and 265.
(4) Provide funds for disposal of HP failing reutilization, transfer, donation or sale (RTDS), or if the HP is not eligible for RTDS, that it is disposed of on a DLA disposal service contract. Funding for disposal by the Military Department or Defense Agency also applies in instances when non-regulated waste requires special handling for disposal via disposal service contract, or when special services are requested on the disposal service contract.
(5) Comply with the Defense DEMIL Program in accordance with DoD Instruction 4160.28 and DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.
(i) Provide proper instructions for DEMIL “F” property to the DLA Disposition Services site at the time of physical turn-in or immediately following electronic turn-in in accordance with procedures in Enclosure 5 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 and Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 and the procedures on the Army's Integrated Logistics Support Center Web site
https://tulsa.tacom.army.mil/DEMIL.
(ii) Ship small arms serialized weapons and serialized parts to the Anniston, Alabama, DEMIL Center, as identified on the DLA Disposition Services Web site (
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil
). Contact the Anniston center for shipment instructions. All activities generating serialized weapons and serialized weapons parts must report a “ship” transaction, using the appropriate DLA Disposition Services DEMIL Center DoDAAC, to the DoD Small Arms/Light Weapons Serialization Program registry.
(6) Implement DoD QRP, as directed by DoD Instruction 4715.4, “Pollution Prevention” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/471504p.pdf
). Establish QRPs to cost effectively divert or recover scrap or waste from the waste streams, as well
as to identify, collect, properly segregate and maintain the integrity of recyclable materials in a way that will maintain or enhance their marketability. Indicate on the turn-in documents that QRP material is identified as such with funds to be deposited to the appropriate budget clearing account.
(7) Implement TSC measures in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08 for USML and CCL items and comply with applicable export control regulations and laws.
(g)
DLA Disposition Services.
The DLA Disposition Services will:
(1) Provide Military Departments and Defense Agencies with disposition solutions and best value support for the efficient and timely RTDS or disposal of excess, surplus, and FEPP property. This includes all required training and guidance on programs affecting disposition practices.
(2) Provide visibility and promote maximum reuse of DLA Disposition Services-managed inventory assets. Implement transfer and donation policies and procedures consistent with GSA regulations.
(3) Provide tailored disposal support to the DoD warfighter during contingency operations, as approved by the ASD(L
MR).
(i) Work with the Military Departments to receive and dispose of property in the most efficient manner. If standard accountability practices are not practical, alternative processes may be established on a temporary basis. However, as time or conditions permit, prescribed processes will be established and appropriate additions, deletions, and adjustments to the official accountable record will be completed.
(ii) Provide comprehensive disposal services supporting customer-unique needs based on mutually developed service agreements. DLA Disposition Services, along with DLA, will work with customers of all levels,
e.g.
, generators, major commands, and Services, to define expectations and establish service delivery strategies.
(4) Use the most appropriate sales method to obtain optimum return on investment for all DoD surplus property sold. Respond to inquiries, process disputes, protests, and claims pertaining to disposable property sales.
(5) Implement quality control programs for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program to assure optimum reutilization; proper DEMIL; use of environmentally sound disposal practices; implementation of TSC measures for MLI and CCL items.
(6) Implement TSC in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08 for USML and CCL items and comply with applicable export control regulations and laws.
(7) Monitor DLA Disposition Services site PMRP operations and provide support to DoD Components and participating federal agencies. Manage the recovery operations of the PMRP.
(8) Prepare and distribute reports for disposition.
(9) Serve as the office of primary responsibility for environmentally regulated and HP as detailed in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
(10) Comply with and implement the provisions of DoD Instruction 4160.28, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, and DoD Instruction 2030.08 in the execution of DLA Disposition Services worldwide. Coordinate procedural waivers or deviations for approval by the DoD DEMIL Program Office or DoD TSC Office in DLA-HQ (J-334). Forward policy waivers or deviations from the DoD DEMIL Program Office or DoD TSC Office to the USD(AT
L) or USD(P) respectively for approval.
(11) Monitor property accountability and approve adjustments or corrections to property accounts for assigned DLA Disposition Services sites.
(12) Comply with implementing guidance relative to relationships with Combatant Commanders as prescribed in DoD Directive 5105.22, “Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/510522p.pdf
).
(13) Support disposal of Military Assistance Program property and other foreign-owned property in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M and § 273.7 of this subpart.
(14) Provide reutilization, donation, and marketing assistance and disposal service to customers.
(15) Maintain liaison with generating activities to determine most efficient
method of acceptance (receipt in place vs. physical turn-in), determine mutually agreed-upon schedules for property receipts, and execute memorandums of understanding (MOUs) for receipt-in-place transactions.
(16) Process excess property, surplus property, FEPP, nonsalable materiel, and other authorized turn-ins from generating activities.
(17) Inspect and accumulate physical receipts of property; verify identity, by UII or IUID when applicable, and quantity. DLA Disposition Services sites need not verify quantities where units of issues are: lot, assortment, board foot, cubic foot, foot, inch, length, meter, square foot, square yard, and yard. These units of issue are impractical and economically unfeasible.
(18) Establish and maintain visibility of accountable property records for excess, surplus, and FEPP property.
(19) Provide or arrange adequate covered storage to protect received property from the elements, maintain its value and condition, and reduce handling. Store property to prevent contamination or mixing, ensure proper identification and segregation (bins or areas are prominently marked, labeled, tagged, or otherwise readily identifiable with the property locator record), and allow inspection.
(20) Fence or otherwise protect the disposal yard to ensure materiel is safeguarded against theft or pilferage. DLA Disposition Services are generally a tenant operation on a DoD installation that generates disposal property. The DLA Disposition Services must comply with the security matters identified in ISSAs established with the DoD Component regarding security regulations.
(21) Provide HW storage, as appropriate. Ensure HW storage facilities meet all applicable environmental standards and requirements, including those specified in 40 CFR part 264.
(22) Prepare ISSAs. Coordinate with the local installation to resolve matters of mutual concern.
(23) Provide information and assistance to those who are processing precious metals-bearing property into DoD PMRP.
(24) Ensure periodic inventories are conducted, accountable property records updated, and required inventory adjustment documents are prepared and processed.
(25) Implement reutilization, transfer, or donation (RTD) of surplus property. Promote maximum RTD of FEPP, excess property, and surplus property. Process authorized RTD requests. Ensure accountable records are updated in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64.
(26) Provide assistance to all authorized screeners, donees, and other interested persons.
(27) Facilitate the sale of property not reutilized, transferred, or donated, and appropriate for release into commerce.
(28) Deposit sale proceeds and other funds received, including storage charges and transfer monies to the appropriate accounts.
(29) Manage the DoD scrap recycling program (including precious metals recovery) and related financial records.
(30) Assist host installations in executing their QRPs in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2577 and deliver sales revenues from eligible personal property to defray the costs incurred by operating and improving recycling programs, financing pollution abatement and environmental programs, funding energy conservation improvements, improving occupational, safety, and health programs, and funding morale, welfare, and recreation programs.
(31) Ensure DEMIL, including small arms serialized weapons and serialized parts is accomplished in accordance with DoD Instruction 4160.28 and DLA Disposition Services internal direction. Provide shipment locations and instructions to generating activities, as requested.
(32) Document handling and receipt of serialized weapons in accordance with the procedures in Defense Logistics Agency Instruction (DLAI) 1104, “Control of Small Arms by Serial Number” (available at
http://www.dla.mil/issuances/Documents_1/i1104.pdf
) for the control of small arms by serial number.
(33) Update the DoD IUID Registry upon the materiel disposition of uniquely identified items in accordance with the procedures in § 273.9.
(h)
ICP Manager.
The ICP Manager is responsible for the materiel management of a group of items either for a particular Military Department or for the DoD as a whole. For the Defense Materiel Disposition Program, the ICP manager will:
(1) Ensure managed items are properly cataloged in the FLIS, in accordance with DoD 4100.39-M. To prevent unauthorized disposition or release within DoD, other Federal civilian agencies, or release into commerce, include required data elements such as UII (when applicable), accurate codes for DEMIL, controlled inventory items, precious metals, shelf life items, and critical items (critical safety items (CSI) or flight safety critical aircraft parts), or other applicable data elements.
(2) Prepare complete instructions when property is assigned DEMIL Code “F,” in accordance with life-cycle management requirements in Enclosure 5 of DoD 4160.28-M Volume 2. Additionally, load the instruction in the DoD DEMIL “F” Instruction repository hosted by the Army's Integrated Logistics Support Center Web site at
https://tulsa.tacom.army.mil/
.
(3) Review DLA Disposition Services assets and orders, as appropriate, prior to initiating new purchases.
(4) Process other ICP interrogations or orders for requirements assigned a UMMIPS priority designator:
(i) Falling within Issue Priority Group 1 (Priorities 01-03).
(ii) In accordance with the procedures in DLM 4000.25-1.
(iii) Considering on-hand assets to the same extent as would be done to satisfy their own service orders.
(5) Prepare data, records for accountability, and provide disposition recommendations as prescribed here and in DoD Instruction 5000.64 in order to maintain backup material for audit review.
(6) Annually provide DLA Disposition Services with updates to points of contact on the DoD DEMIL program Web site
https://demil.osd.mil/
for operational matters, such as reutilization, donation, DEMIL, precious metals, HP, and CSIs.
(7) Arrange for DEMIL of those items not authorized for DLA Disposition Services site DEMIL processing.
(8) Submit available technical data needed to prepare specialized offers and reclamation requirements, when requested.
(9) Identify items requiring reclamation and advise Military Department and Defense Agency ICPs or IMMs of items with reclamation potential.
(10) Prepare and forward reclamation transactions for the interservice interchange of data for component parts with reclamation potential.
(11) Process reclamation notifications and data interchange transactions of other ICPs.
§ 273.7
Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
(a)
General.
(1) Military Departments and Defense Agencies will declare DoD property excess and use the DoD in-transit control system (ICS) as required by DoD Instruction 5000.64 and DLM 4000.25-2.
(2) Generating activities are encouraged to retain physical custody until disposition instructions are provided to reduce processing costs;
e.g.
, packaging, crating, handling, and transportation (PCH
T).
(3) Disposal of wholesale excess DoD property CONUS stocks from DLA Depot recycling control points (RCPs) is automated. This property does not require transport to a DLA Disposition Services site. Authorized excess DoD property is transferred between the RCP account and the DLA Disposition Services account (SC4402). The following FSGs, FSCs, SCCs, and DEMIL codes are ineligible for RCP:
(i) FSGs: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 26, 68, 80, 87, 88, 89, 91 and 94.
(ii) FSCs: 2350, 3690, 4470, 4920, 4927, 6505, 6508, 6750, and 8120.
(iii) SCCs: H.
(iv) DEMIL Codes: G and P.
(b)
Property and scrap accepted and excluded.
(1) DLA Disposition Services must accept and dispose of all authorized DoD-generated excess, surplus, FEPP, scrap, and other personal property with the exclusions in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Property not disposed of through RTDS will be processed for disposal
under an HW contract, except as specified elsewhere. For example, HP will be processed on HW disposal service contracts. Other property will be downgraded to scrap, demilitarized, processed for A/D, or disposed of through a DLA Disposition Services service contract.
(3) DLA Disposition Services sites minimize processing delays as much as possible. In the event a site is unable to physically accept the property at the desired time and location due to workload, generating activities may retain the property for processing in-place, seek another DLA Disposition Services site, or hold the property until the DLA Disposition Services site is able to receive the property.
(4) DLA Disposition Services sites:
(i) Accept and process nonsalable materiel that has no reutilization, transfer, donation, or sale value but is not otherwise restricted from disposal by U.S. law or Federal or military regulations.
(ii) Ensure that disposition is by the most economical and practical method; for example, donation in lieu of A/D or through a service contract that meets minimum legal requirements for disposal of the specific types of property.
(5) DLA Disposition Services sites may not accept (either physically or on its account) and no reutilization or sale service will be given for:
(i) Radioactive waste, items, devices, or materiel (all materiel that is radioactive).
(ii) Property designated for disposal by the Military Departments as identified in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
(iii) Classified material, except that which is addressed by paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section.
(iv) Nuclear weapons-related materiel.
(v) Classified and unclassified information systems security material (cryptological (CRYPTO) or communications security (COMSEC)). Disposal of FSCs 5810 and 5811 are the responsibility of the Military Departments and may not be transferred to DLA Disposition Services in their original configuration as specified in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.
(vi) Property containing information covered by 5 U.S.C. 552a, also known as the Privacy Act of 1974.
(6) DoD Components will manage the collection and disposal of installation refuse and trash. If refuse and trash, when properly segregated, possesses RTDS potential, disposition may be accomplished via DLA Disposition Services, recycling provisions of refuse collection contracts, in-house refuse operations, or QRPs as appropriate.
(7) The DLA Disposition Services site operating as a tenant on an installation will notify the host activity when unauthorized shipments are received at the DLA Disposition Services site (including off-site shipments) of radioactive items, classified material, nuclear weapons-related materiel, and classified and unclassified information systems security material (CRYPTO/COMSEC). The host activity will be responsible for retrieving and securing any radioactive items, classified items and unclassified information systems security material (CRYPTO/COMSEC) immediately upon request of the DLA Disposition Services site.
(8) DLA Disposition Services sites will not accept scrap accumulations that are contaminated or commingled with:
(i) MPPEH.
(ii) MLI that require DEMIL (DEMIL Codes C, D, E and F) and MLI that require mutilation (DEMIL Code B). MLI with DEMIL Code G and P are not authorized for acceptance by DLA Disposition Services in their original state.
(iii) CCL items that have not undergone mutilation to the point of scrap as defined in DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(iv) HP FSCs.
(9) Contaminated scrap should be turned in as HW.
(c)
Scrap segregation and identification.
(1) Separating material at the source simplifies scrap segregation and reduces handling. Commingling material may reduce or, in some instances, destroy the value of the scrap.
(2) Generating activities are responsible for initial identification and segregation. The major basic material or content will be used in the item nomenclature block of the DTID.
(3) Scrap will be segregated to ensure only authorized items are in a scrap pile.
(4) DLA Disposition Services sites will provide guidance and, where possible, containers for use by scrap generators at the source.
(5) The generating activity collecting the scrap or waste will maintain proper segregation of the material and determine a point at which no further material will be added. When scrap piles are being built by the DLA Disposition Services site, the same principles apply. Scrap generated from explosive and incendiary items and chemical ammunition is dangerous and will not be commingled with other types of property.
(d)
Documentation for disposal through DLA Disposition Services.
(1) Use DoD automated information systems to the extent practical to prepare documentation for excess, surplus, or scrap DoD property or FEPP. This method of submitting information is preferred, particularly for turn-in of HW. In addition to submitting the information through automated information systems, hard copies must be produced and maintained with the items during the disposal processes.
(2) The generator will provide to the DLA Disposition Services site an original and three hard copies of a DD Form 1348-1A, “Issue Release/Receipt Document,” or DD Form 1348-2, “Issue Release/Receipt Document with Address Label” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm.
) The DTID must include a valid DoDAAC as authorized in Volume 6 of DLM 4000.25, “Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) Directory (Activity Address Code Sequence)” (available at
http://www2.dla.mil/j-6/dlmso/elibrary/Manuals/DLM/V6/Volume6.pdf
). All further references to DD Form 1348-1A, which also include DD Form 1348-2, will be referred to in this subpart as a DTID. Table 1 of this section provides guidance on preparation of the DD Form 1348 series documents. For scrap transfers, see paragraph (f) of this section.
Table 1—Transfers of Usable Property to DLA Disposition Services Sites (Single Line Item Turn Ins) Using DD Forms 1348-1A/2
Field legend
Record position
Entry and instructions
Document Identifier (DI)
1-3
A5J/940R. Use information on the source document to perpetuate the archived DI. For locally determined excesses generated at a base, post, camp, or station, assign a DI code as determined by shipping activity procedures.
Routing Identifier
4-6
Enter the record indicator (RI) of the shipping activity or leave blank when the shipping activity is not assigned an RI.
Media and Status
7
Leave blank.
Stock or Part Number
8-22
See block 25.
Unit of Issue
23-24
Enter the unit of issue of the stock or part number being turned in.
Disposal Quantity
25-29
Enter the quantity being turned in to disposal activity. See block 26.
Document Number
30-43
See block 24.
Alpha Suffix
44
Leave blank (Exception: Use if DTID consists of multiple documents because the 5-digit quantity field (Record Positions 24-29) is insufficient.) See block 24.
Supplementary Address
45-50
Enter DoDAAC of predesignated consignee DLA Disposition Services Site.
A DoDAAC is the key component for using the DLA Disposition Services property accounting disposal system to either turn in or order excess property to and from DLA Disposition Services. The code is required for all DoD activities, contractors, and FCAs to order, receive, ship, identify custody of government property, or reflect identification in a specified military standard logistics system. The code must be approved by the Military Departments, Defense Agencies, and FCA authoritative organization and be officially registered in the DoD activity address file. The DoDAAC system provides identification codes, plain text addresses, and selected data characteristics of organizational activities needed to order, mark, prepare shipping documents, bills, etc., and only recognizes active DoDAACs. FCAs are only authorized to turn excess property in to DLA Disposition Services for disposal if they have officially authorized an Economy Act Order for reimbursement of transaction billing charges.
Signal
51
This code is used to designate the bill-to and ship-to (or ship-from in the case of DI code FT_and FD_records) activities. Codes B, C, and L apply to HM/HW transfers.
Fund
52-53
For HM and waste turn-ins, enter the fund code from Military Standard Billing System (MILSBILLS) designating the funds to be charged. For non-military activities who are not users of MILSBILLS, (
e.g.
, FCAs or NAFs) using an activity address code), enter “XP.”
Distribution
54
Use the information on the source document to perpetuate the archived data or leave blank.
Retention Quantity
55-61
Enter the quantity to be retained in inventory or leave quantity blank.
Precious Metals
62
Enter applicable code from Appendix AP2.23 of DLM 4000.25-1.
Automated Data Processing Equipment Identification
63
Enter applicable code from AP2.24 of DLM 4000.25-1.
Disposal Authority
64
Enter applicable code from DLM 4000.25-1 Appendix AP2.21. (Mandatory) (FCAs use DAC “F”—not shown in appendix.)
Demilitarization Code
65
Enter the Web-Enabled FLIS or Federal Logistics Data (FEDLOG) recorded DEMIL code of record. For LSNs, Navy item control numbers, or Army control numbers assign DEMIL code in accordance with current Volume 2 of DoD 4160.28-M (Mandatory).
Reclamation
66
Enter code “Y” if reclamation was performed prior to release to a DLA Disposition Services site. Enter “R” if reclamation is to be performed after turn in to DLA Disposition Services site. Enter code “N” if reclamation is not required.
Routing Identifier
67-69
Generate from disposal release order.
Identifier Ownership
70
Enter applicable code or leave blank.
SCC
71
Enter applicable code from DLM 4000.25-2.
Management
72
Enter information from source document to perpetuate archived data or leave blank. If block 71 (SCC) is Q and the management code is blank, DLA Disposition Services will mutilate the property upon receipt.
Criticality Code
73
Enter criticality code documented in FLIS for the items in accordance with DoD 4100.39-M which indicates when an item is technically critical, by reason of tolerance, fit, application, nuclear hardness properties, or other characteristics that affects the identification of the item.
Unit Price
74-80
Enter the unit price for the NSN or part number in record positions 8-22.
Block Entries
1
Enter the extended value of the transaction.
2
Enter the shipping point identified by DoDAAC; if reduced printing is used, the clear address may be entered in addition to the DoDAAC.
3
Enter the consignee DLA Disposition Services site by DoDAAC. This will be the predesignated DLA Disposition Services site and will be entered by the shipping activity; if reduced printing is used, the in the clear address may be entered in addition to the DoDAAC.
4
Insert HM or HW, if applicable.
5
Enter the date of document preparation, if required by the shipper.
6
Enter the national motor freight classification, if required by the shipper.
7
Enter the freight rate, if required by the shipper.
8
Enter coded cargo data, if required by the shipper.
9
Enter applicable controlled inventory item code (CIIC), which describes the security or pilferage classification of the shipment from DoD 4100.39-M.
10
Enter the quantity actually received by the DLA Disposition Services site, if different from positions 25-29.
11
Enter the number of units of issue in a package, if required by the shipper.
12
Enter the unit weight applicable to the unit of issue, if required by the shipper.
13
Enter the unit cube applicable to the unit of issue, if required by the shipper.
14
Enter the uniform freight classification, if required by the shipper.
15
Enter the FLIS or FEDLOG recorded shelf-life code in block 15, if appropriate; otherwise, leave blank.
16
Enter in the clear freight classification nomenclature, if required by the shipper.
17
Enter the item nomenclature. For non-NSN items, enter as much descriptive information as possible. Specified additive data or certification from the generating source for specific types of property should be entered.
18
Enter type of container, if required by the shipper.
19
Enter number of containers that makes up the shipment, if required by the shipper.
20
Enter total weight of shipment, if required by the shipper.
21
Enter total cube of shipment, if required by the shipper.
22
Received by (for DLA Disposition Services site) signature of person receiving the materiel.
23
Date received (for DLA Disposition Services site) date materiel was received and signed for.
24
Document number. Generate from source document. DTID consists of 6-digit DoDAAC + 1-digit last number of year, 3-digit Julian Date + 4-digit generator-assigned serial number. This cannot be the same document number that was used to receive the materiel. For locally determined excesses generated at base, post, camp, or station, assign a document number as determined by Service or agency procedures. Leave suffix code blank unless needed to indicate additional documents to show complete quantity. Generating activities and ordering activities and their contractors must have a valid DoDAAC, as defined in DoD 5105.38-M to use DLA Disposition Services.
25
NSN—Enter the stock or part number being turned-in. For subsistence items, enter the type of pack in record position 21. If an NSN is not used, FSC, part number, noun or nomenclature, where appropriate, to build an LSN.
26
Leave blank. Reserved for DLA Disposition Services Site use.
27
This block may contain additional data including bar coding for internal DLA Disposition Services use, generator certifications (
e.g.
, inert certificate) or fund citation, FSCAP criticality code, etc. Enter data in this block as required by the shipping activity or the DLA Disposition Services Site receiving the materiel. When data is entered in this block, it will be clearly identified. For HM and waste turn ins, enter the DoDAAC of the bill to office, the contract line item number (CLIN) for the item, and the total cost of the disposal, (that is, CLIN cost times quantity in pounds equals cost of disposal).
(3) Generating activities may use the DLA Disposition Services web-based program electronic turn-in document (ETID) for submitting the required information electronically. ETID accommodates generators that do not have service-unique automated capabilities. ETID access and guidance are located on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. Generating activities requiring ETID access must apply for a user ID and password.
(4) In addition to the data required by DLM 4000.25-1, the DTID must clearly indicate:
(i) The reimbursable category (such as foreign purchased, NAF, FCA), including the reimbursement fund citation, or an appropriate indicator that reimbursement is required (
e.g.,
purchased with NAF or Disposal Authority Code “F” for FCAs). DTIDs without reimbursement data will be processed as non-reimbursable.
(ii) The value and a list of component parts removed from major end items or a copy of the limited technical inspection showing the nature and extent of repair required.
(iii) One of the SCCs listed in DLM 4000.25-2 as determined by the generator.
(5) DoD Components will turn in usable property with line item designations.
(i) To the extent possible, usable property will be turned in as individual line items with their assigned and valid NSN and UII (when applicable). Exceptions include property turned in as generator batchlots (see criteria in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section); furniture turned in as a group on a single form; and locally purchased property without an NSN.
(ii) Property may be turned in without a valid NSN when the materiel cannot be identified to a valid NSN in FEDLOG (
e.g.,
locally purchased property). Prior to assigning an LSN, generating activities will match the part number or bar code number from the property against the DLA Logistics Information Service Universal Directory of Commercial Items Cross Reference Inquiry.
(iii) Generating activities will assign an LSN if a part number or barcode is not available; the property is lost, abandoned, or unclaimed privately owned personal property; or the property is confiscated or captured enemy materiel. In Block 25 of the DTID, annotate the FSC, NATO codification bureau code, if available, and identify the noun, nomenclature, or part number.
(iv) Due to national security concerns, the FSCs listed in Table 2 of this section that are clearly MLI or CCL items require a higher degree of documentation. When these items are not
assigned an NSN, the DTID must include the appropriate FSC; the valid part number and manufacturer's name; nomenclature that accurately describes the item; the end item application; and a clear text statement explaining why the NSN is not included (
e.g.,
locally purchased item, found on post, lost, abandoned, privately owned property). This information may be annotated directly on the DTID or securely attached to the DTID.
Table 2—Federal Stock Classes Requiring Turn-In By Valid NSN
GROUP 10
GROUP 23
GROUP 58
ALL FSCs
FSC 2305
FSC 5810
2
FSC 2355
FSC 5811
2
GROUP 11
MLI or CCL items 2350
FSC 5820
ALL FSCs
FSC 5821
GROUP 28
FSC 5825
GROUP 12
FSC 2840
FSC 5826
ALL FSCs
FSC 2845
FSC 5840
FSC 5841
GROUP 13
GROUP 29
FSC 5845
ALL FSCs
FSC 2915
FSC 5846
FSC 5850
GROUP 14
GROUP 36
FSC 5855
ALL FSCs
FSC 3690
FSC 5860
GROUP 15
GROUP 42
GROUP 59
FSC 1560
FSC 4230
FSC 5963
FSC 5985
GROUP 16
GROUP 44
FSC 5998
FSC 1670
FSC 4470
1
FSC 5999
GROUP 17
GROUP 49
GROUP 66
FSC 1710
FSC 4921
FSC 6615
FSC 1720
FSC 4923
FSC 4925
GROUP 69
GROUP 18
FSC 4927
FSC 6920
FSC 1810
FSC 4931
FSC 6930
FSC 1820
FSC 4933
FSC 6940
FSC 1830
FSC 4935
FSC 1840
FSC 4960
GROUP 84
FSC 8470
GROUP 19
FSC 8475
FSC 1905
1
Disposal of originally configured Navy assigned FSC 4470 items is the responsibility of the U.S. Navy.
2
Disposal of FSC 5810/5811 equipment with a CIIC of 9 and that is classified (CIICs D, E, and F) or designated CCI is the responsibility of the owning Military Department and will not be received by DLA Disposition Services sites in its original configuration.
(v) The DTID for any property turned in by LSN without an assigned DEMIL code must include a required clear text DEMIL statement, based on information in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. Generating activities may request assistance of a DLA Disposition Services site, DLA, or the integrated manager for the FSC to determine the appropriate statement. DLA Disposition Services sites will assist generating activities in developing the clear text DEMIL statement and assignment of the appropriate DEMIL code. If assistance is not requested or not used, DLA Disposition Services sites may reject the turn-in of materiel which does not meet established criteria.
(6) Scrap DTIDs will include:
(i) DI code.
(ii) Unit of issue (pounds or kilograms).
(iii) Quantity (total weight (estimated or actual)).
(iv) DTID number.
(v) Precious metals indicator code.
(vi) Disposal authority code.
(vii) Basic material content (Block 17).
(viii) Reimbursement data, if applicable.
(7) For HP documentation, see DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
(8) The generating activities will complete documentation for in-transit control of property (excluding scrap (SCC S)), waste, NAF, lost, abandoned, or unclaimed, privately owned, and FCA property) in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volume 3, for shipments or transfers to DLA Disposition Services sites of property with a total acquisition value of $800 or greater and all property designated as pilferable or sensitive identified by an NSN or part number. The ICS document tracks property from the time of release by generating activity (regardless whether the property is shipped to the DLA Disposition Services site or retained by the generating activity) until the DLA Disposition Services site accepts accountability. The generating activities will update the records to reflect the change in accountability and custody.
(9) DoD Components will identify defective items, parts, and components containing latent defects.
(i)
General information
—(A)
Category 1 (CAT 1) defective or counterfeit property.
(
1
) Is identified as military or Federal Government specification property intended for use in safety critical areas of systems, as determined by the user and reported to the item manager.
(
2
) Does not meet commercial specifications.
(
3
) If used, would create a public health or safety concern; RTDS as usable property is prohibited.
(
4
) Must be mutilated by the generating activity according to specific instructions provided by the item manager.
(B)
Category 2 (CAT 2) defective property.
(
1
) Does not meet military or Federal Government specifications, but may meet commercial specifications.
(
2
) Cannot be used for its intended military purpose and must not be redistributed within the Department of Defense, as directed by the item manager.
(
3
) May be used for commercial purposes and may be transferred, donated, or sold as usable property.
(
4
) If sold, requires special terms and conditions warning purchasers that the property is CAT 2 defective and is not acceptable for resale back to the Department of Defense.
(ii)
ICP requirements.
(A) ICPs will list defective property with the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP). GIDEP is located at
http://www.gidep.org/.
(B) The DLA Disposition Services Safe Alert or Latent Defect (SALD) program contains additional disposal processing information for defective property and can be viewed at
http://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/.
(iii)
Sales requirements.
(A) If the property has been rejected as defective due to non-conformance with U.S. Government specifications, it may be authorized for sale with a statement as to the specific reason for its rejection. DLA Disposition Services will ensure that U.S. Government identification, such as contract numbers, specification numbers, NSN, and any other printing that would identify the item with the U.S. Government is removed or obliterated. A statement to this effect will be included in the sales offering, as a condition of sale. Terms or conditions in sale offerings will warn purchasers that the property is CAT 2 defective and is not acceptable for resale to the Department of Defense.
(B) Return copies of the DTID from the DLA Disposition Services site. Unless generating activities provide written notification to DLA Disposition Services sites that electronic receipt confirmations are acceptable, DLA Disposition Services sites will provide final receipt documentation for each DTID. Generating activities can use the DLA Disposition Services property accounting system to query transactions status.
(e)
Property custody determinations
—(1)
Physical custody retention.
(i) Generating activities should consider retaining physical custody of property declared as excess to reduce handling and preclude transportation costs.
(ii) An MOU will be established between the servicing DLA Disposition Services site and the generating activity. Custodial and accountability responsibilities will be identified in the MOU. DLA Disposition Services sites will not take accountability until the MOU is executed and signed at the approval levels identified in the MOU.
(iii) Inspection(s) will be completed by the DLA Disposition Services site, where appropriate. If not accomplished by the DLA Disposition Services site, a mutually agreeable disposal condition code will be assigned.
(iv) Generating activities are responsible for all expenses incurred before acceptance of accountability by a DLA Disposition Services site. At the point of DLA Disposition Services accountability acceptance (not in conditional acceptance time frame as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section), expenses (
e.g.,
PCH
T of non-hazardous excess, surplus, and FEPP) are borne by DLA Disposition Services. Exceptions may be negotiated by a DoD Component or federal agency representative at a level commensurate with DLA Disposition Services Director (Senior Executive Service level).
(v) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide barcode labels to the generating activity to affix on the property. The labels will contain the DTID number, DEMIL code, and federal condition code. The label will be positioned to clearly indicate that the property accountability has passed to DLA Disposition Services (
e.g.,
“on DLA Disposition Services Site Inventory”). Property should be consolidated and protected in a designated area. The activity with physical custody is responsible for the property's care and protection until it is disposed
of or moved to a DLA Disposition Services site.
(2)
Turn-ins.
When the generating activity decides to transport property to the DLA Disposition Services site, the care and custody of the property will be borne by the DLA Disposition Services site at the point of physical receipt.
(f)
Transferring usable property and scrap to a DLA Disposition Services site.
(1) Generating activities will comply with this part, DLM 4000.25-1, and their Service or agency retention and disposal policies and procedures when preparing property for transfer for disposal. The generating service will maintain accountable records of accountable property, in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64, until formally relieved of accountability by DLA Disposition Services.
(2) Generating activities will schedule all transfers (receipt in-place or physical) through advanced notification (
i.e.,
use of a listing or automated DTIDs.)
(3) Usable property will, to the extent possible, be transferred as individual line items with their assigned valid NSN and UII (when applicable). Exceptions include property turned in as generator batchlots, furniture turned in as a group on a “tally-in” form, and locally purchased property without an NSN.
(4) Scrap, properly identified with supply class by basic material content and segregated, must be transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site using a DTID.
(5) If the deficiency prohibits further DoD use, the materiel will remain in SCC Q, and owners will direct transfer of the materiel to DLA Disposition Services sites following the guidance in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. Improperly documented, unauthorized source, defective, non-repairable, and time-expired aviation CSI/FSCAP materiel that is not mutilated by the holding activity will be directed to the DLA Disposition Services site in SCC Q with management code S. All such materiel will be mutilated. The ICP/IMM should identify to the DLA Disposition Services any unique instructions for disposal requiring specific methods or information regarding hazardous material, waste, or property contained in the item. When transferring such aviation CSI/FSCAP to a DLA Disposition Services site, the generating activity DTID must clearly state in block 17 that the part is defective, non-reparable, time-expired, or otherwise deficient and that mutilation is required.
(6) Property capable of spilling or leaking may not be transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site in open, broken, or leaking containers. All property will be non-leaking and safe to handle.
(7) For physical transfers, generating activities will be responsible for movement of the property or scrap to the nearest DLA Disposition Services location.
(8) DEMIL instructions are to be provided by the ICP or IMM. DEMIL F items must have a valid and verifiable NSN. LSNs with DEMIL F are not valid. DLA Disposition Services sites will not accept DEMIL F property without the proper instructions.
(9) DTIDs that do not meet the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section will be rejected and returned to the Military Departments.
(10) To obtain DEMIL F instructions, please visit the Army's Integrated Logistics Support Center Web site at
https://tulsa.tacom.army.mil/DEMIL.
(g)
Receipt of property and scrap
—(1)
During transfer.
(i) DLA Disposition Services sites are responsible for ensuring proper receipt, classification, processing, safeguarding, storing, and subsequent shipping of all property and scrap. This includes property to be accounted for as items and properly segregated scrap and waste with RTDS value, and materiel destined for disposal.
(ii) DLA Disposition Services sites will assist, when requested, in tracing property when an in-transit control follow-up has been received by the generating or shipping activity.
(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will maintain close liaison with generating activities to ensure:
(A) Informational guidance on disposal transfers is given to generating activities.
(B) A DLA Disposition Services site's receiving capability and the volume of property to be transferred is taken into
consideration for turn-in scheduling. Property inspections will be performed in-place if more advantageous due to the characteristics of the property, as determined by DLA Disposition Services.
(C) Assistance is provided to generating activities, as needed, to assure proper segregation of scrap and HW material before transfer. If the weight generated, market conditions, or local trade practices warrant, further scrap segregation will be made.
(D) All property (except unsalable materiel that is precluded from sale by law), including scrap and refuse or trash with a RTDS value, is processed as set forth in this part and will not be disposed of by dumping in landfills. If the DLA Disposition Services site has knowledge of salable materiel being dumped in a sanitary fill, the DLA Disposition Services site chief will notify the installation commander regarding the matter.
(E) Property received is protected to prevent damage from unnecessary exposure to the elements. Property transferred as condemned may still be usable, and its preservation may benefit the Defense Materiel Disposal Program.
(
1
) Instances of improper handling of government property will be brought to the attention of the generating activity or installation commander for remedial action.
(
2
) Recurrent instances of improper care or handling will be documented for referral to DLA and the disposal focal points of the Military Departments and Defense Agencies.
(iv) The generating activity will assure all property and scrap is properly identified, including special handling requirements, and that automated information system or manually prepared documentation contains the required number of copies and appropriate information for property received in place or physically accepted.
(A) To the maximum extent possible, DLA Disposition Services sites will validate items during pre-receipt processes with documentation preparation and receipt processes with the physical transfer of the property.
(
1
) The generator's representative (if present) should assist with validation. Whether received in place or at a DLA Disposition Services site, a receipt copy of the DTID will be provided to the generator's representative at that time.
(
2
) If the turn-in is not accompanied by the generator's representative, the official receipt documentation will be provided in the most efficient method available;
e.g.,
through an electronic listing of items received, an actual copy of an annotated DTID or an electronic return of an annotated DTID through a web based document management system.
(
3
) For turn-ins accompanied by a generator representative, a conditional receipt copy will be provided at the time of delivery. DLA Disposition Services sites will initial in block 22 and date block 23 of the DTID. This copy constitutes conditional acceptance and becomes the official receipt unless property is rejected on a supply discrepancy report within 15 workdays.
(B) Validation will consist of verifying property description and quantity, and assuring an authorized and appropriate SCC was assigned by the generating activity. DLA Disposition Services sites and generating activities will work together to validate and verify requirements and obtain appropriate certifications, etc., when property is received in place versus physically transported to a DLA Disposition Services site. The MOU, discussed in § 273.6, will be used for securing and documenting these requirements.
(C) DLA Disposition Services site personnel may exercise discretionary authority to change and challenge SCCs (except for items in SCC Q, which will be downgraded to scrap and mutilated).
(D) For items in the general hardware, clothing, tools, furniture, and other nontechnical FSCs, DLA Disposition Services sites are authorized to use their best knowledge, judgment, and discretion to change and assign the appropriate SCC when determined, through physical inspection and examination, or where an obvious error in condition coding exists. DLA Disposition Services sites are responsible for any SCC changes they make and will document the change on the DTID.
(E) For specialized items such as avionics, or items that require test, measurement, or diagnostic to determine serviceability, DLA Disposition Services site should challenge the generating activity SCC assignment if it appears incorrect. Items in original pack and unopened containers that are coded condemned or unserviceable should be viewed with guarded skepticism and challenged back to the generating activity.
(v) Appropriate actions will be taken for discrepancies detected during pre-receipt or receipt:
(A) If property is to be physically received and the generating activity's representative is present, accountability and physical custody of the property will normally remain with the generator until reconciled. DLA Disposition Services sites, at their discretion, may retain physical custody until reconciled.
(B) Discrepancies noted during the receiving process, which may be discovered after electronic or hard copy documentation is received, will be processed in accordance with DLAI 4140.55/AR 735-11-2/Secretary of the Navy Instruction (SECNAVINST) 4355.18A/Air Force Joint Manual (AFJM) 23-215, “Reporting of Supply Discrepancies” (available at
http://www.dla.mil/issuances/Documents_1/i4140.55%20(Joint%20Pub%20-%206%20Aug%202001).pdf.
(C) DLA Disposition Services will barcode the property for identification purposes. Barcoding should include use of any UII or IUID in place when applicable.
(2)
Conditional and accountable acceptance distinction.
Conditional and accountable acceptances are separate actions.
(i) Conditional acceptance occurs when a generating activity representative accompanies a transfer. DLA Disposition Services sites will provide a conditional receipt copy at time of physical delivery. Conditional acceptance becomes official and final acceptance receipt unless property is officially rejected by the DLA Disposition Services site within 15 workdays.
(ii) Accountable acceptance becomes final when verification of accurate property description, valid condition code assignment, correct quantity, and UII (when applicable) is completed by the DLA Disposition Services site. Physical inspections will be conducted, as appropriate.
(iii) During the conditional acceptance processing, if the property is physically transferred to the DLA Disposition Services site and an inventory discrepancy surfaces, the DLA Disposition Services site will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R Volume 12, Chapter 7. If the property remains at the generating activity site for receipt-in-place and an inventory discrepancy surfaces, the generating activity will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R Volume 12, Chapter 7. The accountable organization will amend the accountable property records as appropriate upon completion of the property loss investigation.
(3)
Document acceptance.
DLA Disposition Services sites will use a full signature for receipts in block 22 of the DTID. The conditional acceptance date will be entered in block 23. DLA Disposition Services sites will also use this date for the accountable record receipt transaction.
(4)
Returning receipts.
DLA Disposition Services sites will return one hard copy on physical transfers, including generator-prepared batchlots, if required by the generating activity. DLA Disposition Services will make return receipts available to generators via a web based document management system. Generating activities may access this system via the DLA Disposition Services Web site and search, view, and download copies of turn-in documentation. DLA Disposition Services personnel should work with generating activities to encourage the use of a web-based document management system and eliminate hard copy return receipts.
(i) For property physically received by a DLA Disposition Services site, generating activities will be provided a receipt copy upon delivery.
(A) These receipts are considered conditional acceptance of accountability, pending completion of DLA
Disposition Services site inspection and verification of the turn-in. If no follow-up report is received by the generating activity within 15 workdays, the provisional copy becomes the official receipt document, and the DLA Disposition Services Site assumes full accountability.
(B) If the receipt is not recorded in a web based document management system within 30 days, the provisional copy becomes the official receipt copy and the DLA Disposition Services Site assumes full accountability.
(C) If a discrepancy is found, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact the generating activity and attempt resolution. If required, the guidance shown in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section will be used for inventory discrepancies.
(D) When acceptance is not possible, a reject notice will be provided to the generating activity within 7 workdays. Return receipts are available to generators via a web based document management system.
(ii) For turn-ins made by commercial carrier, parcel post, etc., DLA Disposition Services sites will provide receipt copies no later than 5 workdays after delivery. These receipts are considered conditional acceptance of accountability pending completion of DLA Disposition Services site inspection and verification of the turn-in. If a discrepancy is found, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact and attempt resolution. When acceptance is not possible, a reject notice will be provided to the generating activity within 7 workdays.
(5)
DLA Disposition Services site batchlots.
(i) Consistent with the DoD ICS and in accordance with DLA Disposition Services operating guidance, DLA Disposition Services sites may batchlot property after receipt:
(A) Batchlot property with an extended line item value of $800 or less, in SCCs A—H.
(B) Batchlot property that does not contain pilferable or sensitive materiel.
(ii) Property assigned DEMIL code “A” in the critical or non-critical FSG/FSCs, excluding FSCs 5985, 5998, and 5999, is eligible for batchlotting.
(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites may batchlot property requiring the same type of special processing,
e.g.,
reimbursable property, same FSC.
(iv) DLA Disposition Services sites may batchlot clothing and textile products with infrared or spectral reflectance with a DEMIL code of “E,” but the batchlots require a certification on the DTID (see Figure 1 of this section).
ER03NO15.222
(v) DLA Disposition Services sites will exclude from batchlotting:
(A) Chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) property and clothing (FSG 83 and 84); lab equipment such as centrifuges, biological incubators, micromilling machines, biological safety cabinets and laboratory evaporators; (FSG 66), camouflage clothing and individual equipment.
(B) Low dollar property with high potential for RTDS.
(C) Property defined as a special case in Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 that requires special receipt and handling requirements that cannot be met at time of receipt.
(D) DEMIL required items identified in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, DEMIL codes B, Q, and property in critical FSCs in DEMIL codes C, D, E, F, G, and P. Property in FSCs 5935, 5996, and 5999 will not be batchlotted regardless of DEMIL code.
(E) Property requiring inert certification.
(F) Small arms or light weapons.
(G) Lasers.
(H) Radioactive materiels (
e.g.,
gauges, meters, watches) not eligible for turn-in.
(I) Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear—defense (CBRN-D) equipment—These items are DEMIL F and instructions have to be followed for disposition and are NOT turned in to DLA disposition.
(J) Items with a CIIC. Items determined to be pilferable or sensitive in accordance with Volume 6 of DLM 4000.25 and DLA Regulation 4145.11/AR 740.7/Navy Supply System Command Instruction (NAVSUPINST) 4440.146C/Marine Corps Order (MCO) 4450.11, “Safeguarding of DLA Sensitive Inventory Items, Controlled Substances, and Pilferable Items of Supply” (available at
http://www.dla.mil/issuances/Documents_1/r4145.11.pdf
).
(K) HP.
(L) Metalworking machinery and former industrial plant equipment.
(M) Grade 8 fasteners and machine bolts in FSCs 5305 and 5306. Do not batchlot these items if they appear on the SALD list.
(N) Property in SCC A with a total extended value, per DTID, of $50 or more, as shown in Table 3 of this section.
Table 3—FSCs in SCC A
or = $50 Excluded From Batchlotting
FSC
Description
2910
Engine Fuel System Component, Non-Aircraft.
2920
Engine Electrical System Components, Non-Aircraft.
2940
Engine Air and Oil Filters, Strainers and Cleaners, Non-Aircraft.
2990
Miscellaneous Engine Accessories, Non-Aircraft.
3030
Belting, Drive Belts, Fan Belts, and Accessories.
4730
Fittings and Specialties; Hose, Pipe, and Tube.
5660
Fencing, Fences and Gates and Components.
5895
Miscellaneous Communication Equipment.
5910
Capacitors.
5935
Connectors, Electrical.
5940
Lugs, Terminals and Terminal Strips.
5961
Semi-Conductor Devices and Associated Hardware.
6530
Hospital Furniture, Equipment, Utensils and Supplies.
6680
Liquid/Gas Flow, Liquid level/Mechanical Motion Measuring Instruments.
7105
Household Furniture.
7195
Miscellaneous Furniture and Fixtures.
9999
Miscellaneous Items (cannot conceivably be classified anywhere else).
(vi) Notwithstanding the information in paragraph (g)(5)(v) of this section, RTD customers may order individual items from a batchlot. DLA Disposition Services sites will honor these requests. Otherwise, items will not be removed from batchlots.
(vii) DLA Disposition Services sites are responsible for ensuring official receipt copies are returned accessible to generating activities (electronically or
hard copy). They must provide tracing assistance for any DTID receipt copy not received by the generating activity.
(h)
Identification, barcoding, and storage requirements.
(1) Usable property, transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site or received in original location, must be clearly identified with barcode labels. The labels will be affixed to property from time of receipt (physically or receipt-in-place) until final removal and will correspond with accountability records. For property stored at DLA Disposition Services sites, signs will be placed appropriately to identify property status (RTD, DEMIL, etc.) and to minimize confusion to customers.
(2) Scrap transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site or received in original location will be accumulated and segregated to prevent commingling basic material content.
(i) For use in providing the basic material content information, scrap will be identified using the standard waste and scrap classification code (SCL) contained in the DAISY codes and terms pocket reference located at the DLA Disposition Services Web page (
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/publications/index.shtml
). The pocket reference is formatted alphabetically.
(ii) Barcoded labels are not required for scrap accumulations. However, both the generating activity and DLA Disposition Services accounting records must correspond with the scrap identifications and weights. DLA Disposition Services must use the SCL in its DAISY accounting records.
(iii) During storage, DLA Disposition Services will place appropriate signs to identify types of scrap and maximize visibility to customers.
(i)
Accounting for property at the DLA Disposition Services site.
(1) Correct accounting for all excess property, surplus property, and FEPP by both the Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services sites is critical. Non-compliance can result in property being misappropriated with potentially severe consequences. Proper accounting impacts resourcing (money, equipment, and personnel) decisions.
(2) Accountability records will be maintained in auditable condition, allow property to be traced from receipt to final disposition and cleared from the ICS, when appropriate. DLA Disposition Services' accountability system will incorporate the requirements of DoD Directive 8320.02, 15 CFR parts 730 through 799, and DLA Regulation 7500.1, “Accountability and Responsibility for Government Property in the Possession of the Defense Logistics Agency,” (DLA Regulation 7500.1 is available at:
http://www.dla.mil/issuances/.
(3) If a contingency operation requires a deviation from standard accountability practices, Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services sites will maintain spreadsheets, listings, or the most appropriate method of temporary accountable records. When the contingency operation reaches a point where prescribed accountability practices can be resumed, the temporary documents will be used for establishing, updating, or adjusting official accountability records (both Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services sites) as applicable.
(4) DLA Disposition Services' property accountability records will be maintained in sufficient detail to support required sales proceeds reimbursements.
(i) Materiel with different fund citation appropriations may be combined in sale lots; however, DLA Disposition Services accountability systems will retain individual disbursement information to allow appropriate reimbursements to local or departmental accounts, as designated by DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs): Volume 11a, “Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures“; Chapter 5, “Disposition of Proceeds from Department of Defense Sales of Surplus Personal Property”, (available at
http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/current/11a/Volume_11a.pdf
).
(ii) Non-reimbursable scrap may be physically combined with other scrap when considered advantageous; however, accountability records will be maintained to substantiate pro-rating of the proceeds.
(5) Usable and scrap determination and accounting are calculated as follows:
(i) When property not requiring DEMIL is assigned SCCs F, G, or H, the DLA Disposition Services site may determine property has scrap value only and classify and process as “scrap upon receipt.”
(ii) Personal property assigned other SCCs, which the DLA Disposition Services site determines to only have basic materiel content value, may be downgraded to scrap after the end-of-screening date (ESD) and completion of any required DEMIL.
(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will minimize changing or challenging SCCs and downgrades upon receipt.
(iv) When an item has been offered on a competitive sale and no bid has been received, or bids received are less than the scrap value of the item, the property may be downgraded to scrap and re-offered for sale as scrap. This includes property returned to a DLA Disposition Services site from a joint commercial sales partner that has been confirmed as mis-described or as containing only basic material content value. Similar items received within a 12-month period that have a history of being nonsalable may be downgraded to scrap at ESD.
(v) When a DLA Disposition Services site determines obsolete printed materials have no RTD potential and only scrap market value, these items will be downgraded to scrap upon receipt.
(vi) When end items are turned in as scrap and are reclaimed or disassembled for their usable components, the DLA Disposition Services site's records will be adjusted to reflect the acquisition cost (estimated, if not known) of the components removed.
(6) Scrap accounting is calculated by weight.
(i) Estimated weight may be used for receiving scrap if scales are not available or if weighing is impractical. Disposition of scrap for sale or demanufacturing must be weighed to provide accurate accounting and reconciliation with the DLA Disposition Services accountable record.
(ii) The acceptable degree of accuracy of estimation is 25 percent for property processed by the ton, and 10 percent for property processed by the pound. Overages and shortages discovered on release of property that exceed allowable tolerances will be adjusted.
(iii) High value scrap must be weighed at the time of receipt.
(j)
Calibration and maintenance of weigh scales.
(1) DoD activities, including DLA Disposition Services sites with scales used for receipts and disposition of scrap, will ensure weigh scales under their jurisdiction are maintained, repaired, and calibrated annually or more often if required by State or local laws.
(2) Activities with scales will maintain a log or record of visits by qualified inspectors showing the date of the visit and, where appropriate, action taken to correct the accuracy of the scales. A signed copy of the inspector's findings will be maintained. The activity is responsible for obtaining the services of a qualified scale inspector and requesting repair when needed.
(k)
Physical inventory accuracy.
(1) DLA Disposition Services sites will conduct physical inventories. At a minimum, a sample inventory will be conducted at each DLA Disposition Services site annually. Inventory accuracy of at least 90 percent will be maintained for all usable property, except DEMIL required property, HP, and pilferable or sensitive property. Discrepancies will be corrected in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. If sample inventories for usable property are less than 90 percent accurate, a wall-to-wall inventory will be conducted.
(2) Physical inventories for DEMIL required property, HP, and pilferable or sensitive property will be conducted at least annually. Inventory accuracy of 100 percent will be maintained. If less than 100 percent accuracy, DLA Disposition Services site will report the discrepancies in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R.
(3) Usable property remaining on the DLA Disposition Services site account in excess of 6 months will be inventoried on a monthly basis and certified.
(4) Inventory discrepancies will be researched as part of the inventory process and corrections documented as inventory adjustments.
(5) DLA Disposition Services will provide the DLA Disposition Services sites
with direction for maintaining and reconciling scrap accumulations and accountable records. Reconciliation will be performed at least monthly.
(l)
Inventory discrepancies and adjustments
—(1)
Errors before acceptance.
Item identification, quantity, condition, or price data errors discovered before official acceptance of accountability will be resolved and corrected during receipt.
(2)
Errors after acceptance.
Discrepancies discovered after acceptance of accountability; that is, differences between recorded balances and quantities on hand, will be processed as inventory adjustments. Inventory adjustment procedures are contained in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 7.
(3)
Property not in DLA Disposition Services site custody.
(i) When property for which a DLA Disposition Services site has assumed accountability, but not physical custody, becomes lost, damaged, or destroyed, the custodial activity will investigate the discrepancy and provide its findings to the DLA Disposition Services site.
(ii) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide the custodial activity with requested item identification number, such as NSN, DTID number, or UII (when applicable) or copies of pertinent documentation for the lost, damaged, or destroyed item.
(A) If the custodial activity determines the discrepancy is due to a record keeping error, it will fully document the error and inform the DLA Disposition Services site to prepare an inventory adjustment.
(B) If the discrepancy is not due to a record keeping error, the custodial activity must prepare a DD Form 200, “Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss,” in accordance with criteria contained in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 7.
(iii) Within 30 days after notification of the loss of the property, the custodial activity must provide the DLA Disposition Services site a completed copy of the DD Form 200 as supportive documentation for the DLA Disposition Services site to process an inventory adjustment.
(m)
Property disposition
—(1)
Packing, crating, and handling (PC
H).
PC
H for DoD orders will be arranged by the DLA Disposition Services site in most cases. When property is received in place, the generating activity will prepare the property for shipment. DLA Disposition Services will submit payment for these services according to the established ISSA or by DLA Disposition Services military interdepartmental purchase request.
(2)
Transportation.
DLA Disposition Services will directly fund transportation costs associated with reutilized property on each transaction. However, these costs are recouped as part of the Service-level annual billings for all associated disposition costs incurred by the services including all transportation costs during the year. That is, individual DoD units do not pay for reutilization transportation on each individual transaction, but their Military Service is billed on an annual basis.
(n)
Audits
—(1)
Outside command involvement.
When it is necessary to obtain or confirm data on materiel transferred to or from disposal accounts, and this involves crossing command lines between DoD Components, the policy in DoD Instruction 7600.02, “Audit Policies” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/760002p.pdf
) will apply.
(2)
Joint Service/DLA Directives used during audits.
The DoD Components will maintain a clear audit trail of the documentation for the disposition of property in accordance with their internal issuances for audits. The internal issuances that govern Army, Navy, and Air Force are:
(i) AR 36-2, “Audit Services in the Department of the Army” (available at
http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r36_2.pdf
).
(ii) SECNAVINST 7510.7F.
(iii) Air Force Policy Directive 65-3, “Internal Auditing” (available at
http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_fm/publication/afpd65-3/afpd65-3.pdf
).
§ 273.8
Donations, loans, and exchanges.
(a)
Authority and scope
—(1)
FMR.
Provisions for donation of surplus personal property are provided in accordance with 41 CFR part 102-37.
(2)
Other regulations.
(i) 10 U.S.C. 2576a permits the Secretary of Defense to transfer certain property for use for
State and local law enforcement agencies. Notwithstanding 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, donations may be made only as authorized by law; under separate statutes, the Secretaries of the Military Departments may donate certain excess materiel to authorized recipients; through GSA, the Department of Defense may donate surplus property to authorized donees. Donations are subordinate to federal agency needs, but take precedence over sale or A/D. This section also contains guidance and procedures pertaining to loans or exchanges, providing specific instructions to authorized donees.
(ii) 42 U.S.C. chapter 68 authorizes federal assistance to States, local government, and relief organizations based on a declaration of emergency or major disaster.
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 2557, 2572, 2576, and 5576a establishes the procedures for organizations participating in surplus personal property donation programs, specifically the organizations discussed in this section.
(3)
Agreements.
Technology transfer projects and 10 U.S.C. 2194 address educational partnership agreements.
(b)
Compliance with nondiscrimination statutes requirements.
(1) All of the donation programs covered by this section must comply with:
(i) 42 U.S.C. 2000a, also known as Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(ii) 20 U.S.C. 1681, also known as Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.
(iii) 29 U.S.C. 701 also known as the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
(iv) 42 U.S.C. 6101 also known as the Age Discrimination Act of 1973.
(2) Any complaints alleging violations of these acts or inquiries concerning the applicability to the programs covered in this section will be handled by elevating issues through the appropriate chains of command and agency-to-agency dialog.
(c)
Donations of surplus personal property
—(1)
General.
(i) Surplus property is allocated by GSA considering the factors listed in 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.
(ii) GSAXcess® is available for State agencies for surplus property (SASPs) and donees, when authorized, to search for and select property for donation. Screening is accomplished during the timeframes specified in § 273.15.
(iii) Upon allocation, GSAXcess® will generate the SF 123, “Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property” to the agency for approval and return. DoD orders for DLA Disposition Services assets with a UMMIPS Priority Designator within Issue Priority Group 1 (Priorities 01-03), and non-mission capable supply (NMCS) orders will be submitted to DLA Disposition Services as an exception. DLA Disposition Services will immediately fill these orders and notify the GSA area property officer for the Front End Data System record adjustment. Priorities 4-15 orders received during this timeframe will not be honored.
(2)
Accessing GSAXcess®.
GSAXcess® screening requires an access code from GSA. To learn about GSAXcess® and obtain access code information, see
https://gsaxcess.gov/.
(3)
Release of Government liability.
On a case-by-case basis, “hold harmless” clauses to protect the United States may be used, depending on the types and quantities of property. Such provisions must be written in coordination with appropriate DoD Component legal counsel.
(4)
Reporting.
DLA will provide GSA a report of property transferred to non-federal recipients. The report:
(i) Will be submitted to GSA through the GSA on-line Personal Property Reporting Tool within 90 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year. The Personal Property Reporting Tool is located at
https://gsa.inl.gov/property.
If for any reason the report is delayed, the organization who possesses the property should contact the GSA Personal Property Asset Management (MTA), 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405, with an explanation of the delay. The report must cover personal property disposed during the fiscal year in all areas within the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Negative reports are required.
(ii) Must reference Interagency Report Control Number 0154-GSA-AN and contain:
(A) Name of the non-Federal recipient.
(B) Zip code of the recipient.
(C) Explanation as to the type of recipient (
e.g.,
contractor, grantee, cooperative, Stevenson-Wydler recipient, licensee, permittee).
(D) Appropriate 2-digit FSC group.
(E) Total original acquisition cost of all personal property furnished to each recipient.
(F) Appropriate comments as necessary.
(G) IUID or UII equivalent.
(5)
Donation restrictions.
(i) All surplus property (including property held by working capital funds established under 10 U.S.C. 2208 or in similar funds) is available for donation to eligible recipients, in accordance with authorizing laws, except for property in the categories in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (M) of this section:
(A) Agricultural commodities, food, and cotton or woolen goods determined from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture to be commodities requiring special handling with respect to price support or stabilization.
(B) Controlled substances.
(C) Foreign purchased property (as identified in DoD 5105.38-M).
(D) Naval vessels of the following categories: battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.
(E) NAF property.
(F) MLI, except in compliance with DoD Instruction 4160.28, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, and DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(G) CCL items, except in compliance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 and DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(H) Property acquired with trust funds (
e.g.,
social security trust funds).
(I) Records of the Federal Government.
(J) Vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more, excluding specified Naval combat vessels, which the Maritime Administration determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use (as defined in 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102).
(K) Items as may be specified from time to time by the GSA Office of Government-wide Policy.
(L) Property that requires reimbursement upon transfer (such as abandoned or other unclaimed property that is found on premises owned or leased by the Government).
(M) Hazardous waste.
(N) Other Hazardous property and hazardous materials not otherwise identified in the categories in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (M) of this section that is not serviceable, for example supply condition codes (SCCs) listed in DLM 4000.25-2 as SCC E for unserviceable (limited restoration) materiel, SCC F for unserviceable (reparable) materiel, and SCC G for unserviceable (incomplete) materiel, SCC H for unserviceable (condemned) materiel, SCC P for unserviceable (reclamation) materiel.
(ii) Certain items require special processing for donations (in accordance with the requirements in DoD 5105.38-M. DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 provides the procedures.
(6)
Returnable DoD property.
(i) As restrictions are imposed on certain commodities, the Department of Defense, through GSA, will request a return of these items and provide guidance.
(ii) Known restrictions require written certification and signature by the recipient at the time of removal.
(7)
Allocating surplus property.
GSA directly allocates property to:
(i)
FAA.
Public airports are managed through the FAA.
(A) The FAA Administrator has the responsibility for selecting property determined to be either:
(
1
) Essential, suitable, or desirable for the development, improvement, operation, or maintenance of a public airport, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 47102.
(
2
) Reasonably necessary to fulfill the immediate and foreseeable future needs of the grantee for the development, improvement, operation, or maintenance of a public airport.
(
3
) Needed to develop sources of revenue from non-aviation businesses at a public airport.
(B) Public airports will secure advance approval of donations by obtaining signatures of the applicable FAA
airport branch chief and by the GSA regional office on the order (SF 123).
(ii) United States Agency for International Development.
(iii)
SASPs.
(A) SASPs are responsible for determining eligibility of applicants; fairly and equitably distributing donated property to eligible donees within their State; assuring donees comply with donation terms and conditions; and when requested by donee, arranging for or providing shipment of property from the federal holding agency,
e.g.,
DLA Disposition Services sites, directly to the recipients.
(B) The SASP donates property to public and eligible nonprofit organizations. Types of eligible recipients are:
(
1
) Medical institutions, hospitals, clinics, and health centers.
(
2
) Drug abuse and alcohol centers.
(
3
) Providers of assistance to homeless individuals.
(
4
) Providers of assistance to impoverished families and individuals.
(
5
) Schools, colleges, and universities.
(
6
) Schools for the mentally and physically disabled.
(
7
) Child care centers.
(
8
) Radio and television stations licensed by the Federal Communications Commission as educational radio or television stations.
(
9
) Museums attended by the public.
(
10
) Libraries providing the resident public (community, district, State, or region) with free access.
(
11
) State and local government agencies, or nonprofit organizations or institutions. 42 U.S.C. 3015 and 3020 authorizes donations of surplus property to State and local government agencies, or nonprofit organizations or institutions that receive federal funding to conduct programs for older individuals.
(
12
) States and territories.
(
13
)
SEAs.
The Deputy Secretary of Defense is authorized to designate new SEAs. Table 4 of this section includes the list of approved SEAs. SEA nominations from the Military Departments or Defense Agencies should be forwarded to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness, 3500 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-3500
(
14
) Educational activities that are of special interest to the Military Services may receive surplus DoD property in accordance with 41 CFR chapter 101.
Table 4—SEA National Offices
American National Red Cross, 17th and D Streets NW., Washington, DC 20006
Armed Services YMCA of the USA, 6225 Brandon Avenue, Suite 215, Springfield, VA 22150-2510.
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of America, 230 North 13th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107
Boys and Girls Clubs of America, 771 First Avenue, New York, NY 10017.
Boy Scouts of America, 1325 Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, TX 75038-3096
Camp Fire, Inc., 4601 Madison Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64112-1278.
The Center for Excellence In Education, 7710 Old Springhouse Road, McLean, VA 22102
Girl Scouts of America, 420 5th Avenue, New York, NY 10018-2702.
Little League Baseball, Inc., Williamsport, PA 17701
National Association for Equal Opportunity In Higher Education, 2243 Wisconsin Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20007.
National Ski Patrol System, Inc., 133 South Van Gordon Street, Suite 100, Lakewood, CO 80228
U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps, 2300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22201.
United Service Organizations, Inc., 601 Indiana Avenue, Washington, DC 20004
United States Olympic Committee, 1 Olympic Plaza, Colorado Springs, CO 80909-5760.
National Director, Young Marines of the Marine Corps, P.O. Box 70735, Southwest Station, Washington, DC 20024-0735
President—Board of Directors, Marine Cadets of America, USN
MC Reserve Center, Fort Nathan Hale Park, New Haven, CT 06512-3694.
Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety, Erie Industrial Park, Building 650, P.O. Box 576, Port Clinton, OH 43452
Marine Corps League, P.O. Box 3070, Merrifield, VA 22116.
(C) High schools that host a Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) Unit or a National Defense Cadet Corps Unit, Naval Honor Schools, and State Maritime Academies should contact their sponsoring
Military Department regarding donations.
(D) SEAs must maintain separate records that include:
(
1
) Documentation verifying that the activity has been designated as eligible by the Department of Defense to receive surplus DoD property.
(
2
) A statement designating one or more donee representatives to act for the SEA in acquiring property.
(
3
) A listing of the types of property that are needed or have been authorized by the Department of Defense for use in the SEA program.
(8)
Identification of screeners.
(i) SASP personnel or donee personnel representing a SASP must have a valid screener-identification card (GSA Optional Form 92, screener's identification, or other suitable identification approved by GSA) before screening and selecting property at holding agencies. However, SASP or donee personnel do not need a screener ID card to inspect or remove property previously set aside or approved by GSA for transfer.
(ii) Screeners, having identified themselves and indicated the purpose of their visit, will sign the Visitor or Vehicle Register and be allowed to complete donation screening only.
(9)
Screening and ordering procedures for DLA Disposition Services property.
(i) Section 273.15(c) outlines the screening timeframes for ZI surplus and FEPP that has reached the surplus release date.
(ii) When a prospective donee contacts a DLA Disposition Services site or military installation regarding possible acquisition of surplus property, the individual or organization will be advised to contact the applicable SASP for determination of eligibility and procedures to be followed. The DLA Disposition Services sites will assist interested parties regarding availability of surplus property.
(iii) SASP contacts may be located on the GSA Web site at
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/100851.
(iv) Prospective donees must go to GSAXcess® to gain access, shop, and select property.
(A) Once GSA allocates property, the SASP will receive an SF 123. The donee should then sign and return the SF 123 to the appropriate GSA office.
(B) GSA will then approve the SF 123 by signature, return the SF 123 to the SASP, and notify DLA Disposition Services with an electronic order.
(v) Procedures for return of surplus FEPP to the United States for ultimate donation are covered in Enclosure 4 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2.
(vi) DLA Disposition Services sites will require recipients of HM to sign a certification statement as shown in Figure 2 of this section.
ER03NO15.223
(A) After allocation and approval, if the customer no longer wants or needs the property, the customer is required to notify the SASP, GSA, and the DLA Disposition Services site.
(B) GSA may reallocate the property if there is an existing request by another potential recipient. If the property is reallocated, cancellation of the existing request will be transmitted by GSA and another transmission to DLA Disposition Services is required.
(C) If the property is not reallocated, GSA must cancel the existing MRO.
(10)
Customer removal of ordered property.
(i) All transportation arrangements and costs are the responsibility of the SASP or designated donee. The DLA Disposition Services site may not act as agent packager or shipper. Until release, each holding activity is responsible for the care and handling of its property.
(ii) The SASP or designated donee will only pay for direct costs of care and handling incurred in the actual packing, crating, preparation for shipment, and loading. The price will be the actual or carefully estimated costs incurred by DoD traffic management activities for labor, material, or services used in donating the property.
(iii) Advance payment for care and handling costs will normally be required; however, State and local governmental units may be exempted from this requirement and authorized to make payment within 60 days from date of receipt of property. Advance payment may be required in any case where prompt payment after billing has been unsatisfactory.
(iv) Donees must schedule removal of property with the DLA Disposition Services site. Upon arrival, the individual must provide identification and must sign the DLA Disposition Services Visitor or Vehicle Register, indicating the purpose of the visit.
(v) The individual must provide an approved SF123 as authorization for removal.
(vi) DLA Disposition Services sites will release surplus property to authorized donees upon receipt of a properly completed and approved SF 123 or MRO.
(d)
Special donations (gifts), loans, and exchanges outside the FMR
—(1)
Compliance.
The DoD Components:
(i) Comply with the specific governing statute for the type of property and ensure the limitations of the governing statute are observed. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2572 and DoD issuances, the Secretary of a Military Department or the Secretary of the Treasury is permitted to donate, lend, or exchange, as applicable, without expense to the United States, books, manuscripts, works of art, historical artifacts, drawings, plans, models and condemned or obsolete combat materiel that are not needed by the Military Services.
(ii) Establish supplementary procedures governing loans, donations, and exchanges.
(iii) May donate, loan or exchange items as identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, if the special donation, loan, or exchange action occurs prior to transfer to DLA Disposition Services for disposition. It is not authorized after property has been officially declared excess and transferred to DLA Disposition Services.
(iv) May exchange assets for:
(A) Similar items;
(B) Conservation supplies, equipment, facilities, or systems;
(C) Search, salvage, or transportation services;
(D) Restoration, conservation or preservation services; or
(E) Educational programs when it directly benefits the historical collection of the DoD Components.
(v) May not make an exchange unless the monetary value of the property transferred or services provided to the United States under the exchange is not less than the value of the property transferred by the United States. The Secretary concerned may waive this limitation in the case of an exchange for property in which the Secretary determines the item to be received by the United States will significantly enhance the historical collection of the property administered by the Secretary.
(vi) Will not incur costs in connection with loans or gifts. However, the DoD Component concerned may, without cost to the recipient, DEMIL, prepare, and transport within the CONUS items authorized for donation to a recognized war veterans' association in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 if the DoD Component determines this can be accomplished as a training mission, without additional expenditures for the unit involved.
(vii) Will maintain official records of all DoD materiel loaned including physical inventory, record reconciliation, and management reporting specified in the inventory management procedures in DoD Manual 4140.01, “DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Procedures” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414001m/414001m_vol01.pdf
). Verify yearly that property is being used for approved purposes, is being maintained and protected according to the agreement, and that the recipient organization still desires to retain the property. The DoD Component may perform this annual check by any method that provides reasonable assurance the recipient organization is fulfilling its responsibilities. DoD Components may request assistance from qualified DoD organizations.
(2)
Organizations authorized to receive loans and donations.
(i) A municipal corporation.
(ii) A soldiers' monument association.
(iii) An incorporated museum or memorial that is operated by a historical society, a historical institution of a State or foreign nation, or a nonprofit military aviation heritage foundation or association incorporated in a State.
(iv) An incorporated museum that is operated and maintained for educational purposes only and the charter of which denies it the right to operate for profit.
(v) A post of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States or the American Legion or a unit of any other recognized war veterans' association.
(vi) A local or national unit of any war veterans' association of a foreign
nation recognized by the national government of that nation (or by the government of one of the principal political subdivisions of that nation).
(vii) A post of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.
(3)
Requirements for veterans' organizations.
To qualify, veterans' organizations must be:
(i) Sponsored by a Military Department.
(ii) Evaluated based on its size, purpose, the type and scope of services it renders to veterans, and composed of honorably discharged American soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, or coastguardsmen.
(4)
Requirements for museums.
To qualify, museums must:
(i) Meet State (or equivalent foreign national) criteria for not-for-profit museums.
(ii) Have an existing facility suitable for the display and protection of the type of property desired for loan or donation. If the requester has a facility under construction that will meet those requirements, interim eligibility may be granted.
(iii) Have a professional staff that can care for and accept responsibility for the loaned or donated property.
(iv) Have assets that, in the determination of the loaning or donating service, indicate the capability of the loaner and the borrower to provide the required care and security of historical property.
(5)
Eligibility determination.
The DoD Components will determine the eligibility of organizations for gifts and loans. The DoD Components may establish eligibility requirements dependent upon the unique nature of the specific historical item; however, the minimum requirements are:
(i) Limit donations, loans, or exchanges to property stipulated by 10 U.S.C. 2557, 2572, 2576, and 2576a. Except for relevant records for aircraft and associated engines and equipment (unless authorized under DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 and DoD Instruction 2030.08), government records may not be released.
(ii) Approve the loan, donation, or exchange; process requests for variations from the original agreement; and maintain official records of all donation, loan, and exchange agreements. The approval of exchanges may be delegated at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, and is encouraged for low-dollar transactions.
(iii) Establish controls for determining compliance by the recipient organization with the display, security, and usage criteria provided in the loan and donation agreements.
(iv) Provide disposition instructions to the recipient organization when loaned or donated property is no longer needed or authorized for continued use.
(v) Establish conditions for making donations, loans, or exchanges.
(vi) Establish a process (
e.g.,
a council or other means suitable to the loan and donation organization) to review and approve proposed exchanges incorporating legal and financial review independent of the museum involved. Personnel directly involved in museum operations will not act as sole approving authority for any exchange transactions.
(vii) Ensure that correspondence regarding loans, donations, or exchanges is signed by individuals authorized to obligate their organization.
(viii) Ensure appropriate DEMIL of the property as prescribed in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 before release. If standard DEMIL criteria cannot be applied without destroying the display value, specific DEMIL actions (such as aircraft structural cuts) may be delayed. The recipient organization must agree to assume responsibility for the property DEMIL action, at no cost to the Government, when the item is no longer desired or authorized for display purposes. The recipient organization may also return the property to the Government via the donating Military Department for full DEMIL action.
(ix) Loan, donate, or exchange property on an “as is, where is” basis and ensure that the recipient organization agrees to pay all costs incident to preparation, handling, and movement of the property. Military Department contact points for the loan, donation, or exchange of property are at Table 5 of this section.
(A) Property may not be repaired, modified, or changed at government expense over and above normal preparation for handling and movement,
even if reimbursement is offered for services rendered.
(B) Property may not be moved at government expense to a recipient's location or to another location closer to the recipient to prevent or lessen the recipient organization's processing or transportation costs.
(C) No charge will be made for the property itself, but all physical processing of the property for the loan or donation will be the responsibility of the recipient organization. The recipient organization will pay all applicable charges before release of the property.
Table 5—Military Department Contact Points for Loan, Donation, or Exchange of Property
ARMY: (all commodities)
Commander
U.S. Army Tank Automotive and Armament Command
ATTN: AMSTA-IM-OER
Warren, MI 48397-5000
Email:
donations@cc.tacom.mil
Telephone: 1-800-325-2920 extension 48469
NAVY:
Navy and Marine Corps aircraft, air launched missiles, aircraft engines, and aviation related property:
Commanding Officer
NAVSUP Weapon Systems Support
ATTN: Code-03432-06
700 Robbins Ave.
Philadelphia, PA 19111-5098
Obsolete or condemned Navy vessels for donation as memorials; Navy major caliber guns and ordnance; and shipboard materiel:
Commander
ATTN: NAVSEA-OOD, NC
Naval Sea Systems Command
2531 Jefferson Davis Highway
Arlington, VA 22242-5160
AIR FORCE:
Air Force aircraft, missiles or any other items authorized for donation for display purposes to a museum recipient:
NMUSAF/MUX
1100 Spaatz St.
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-7102
The USAF Museum operates a loan program only. Donations are not offered.
Any other Air Force item authorized for donation for display purposes (to recipients other than a museum):
HQ AFMC/A4RM
4375 Chidlaw Rd., Building 262
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5006
MARINE CORPS:
Marine Corps assault amphibian vehicles (to recipients other than a museum):
Commandant of the Marine Corps
ATTN: LPC-2
HQ U.S. Marine Corps
3000 Marine Corps, Pentagon, RM 2E211
Washington, DC 20350
Marine Corps historical property (all other inquiries):
Commandant of the Marine Corps
ATTN: History and Museum Division (HD)
Marine Corps Historical Center
1254 Charles Morris Street SE
Washington Navy Yard, DC 20374-5040
U.S. Coast Guard
For U. S. Coast Guard historical assets contact COMDT (CG-09224) at mail stop 7031:
Commandant (CG-09224)
U. S. Coast Guard Headquarters, Douglas A. Munro Building
2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave. South East, Stop 7031
Washington, DC 20593-7031
For all other assets contact Commandant (CG-844) at mail stop 7618:
Commandant (CG-844)
U. S. Coast Guard Headquarters, Douglas A. Munro Building
2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue South East, Stop 7618
Washington, DC 20593-7618
(x) Record assets on property accountability records before they are loaned, donated, or exchanged.
(xi) Coordinate with the DoS before a donation, loan, or exchange is formalized with a foreign museum.
(xii) Ensure an official authorized to obligate the organization signs a certificate of assurance, as shown at Figure 3 of this section.
ER03NO15.224
(xiii) Ensure proper documentation is finalized in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 before the release of any property to an authorized recipient.
(A) Use the standard loan agreement in the format prescribed by Figure 4 of
this section or a similar document providing the same data for accomplishing property loans.
ER03NO15.225
ER03NO15.226
ER03NO15.227
(B) Accomplish property donations made under this authority by use of the conditional deed of gift agreement in the format prescribed in Figure 5 of this section or a similar document providing the same data.
ER03NO15.228
ER03NO15.229
ER03NO15.230
(C) Accomplish property exchanges made under this authority by use of the exchange agreement in the format prescribed in Figure 6 of this section or a similar document providing the same data. Items may not be exchanged until a determination is made that the item is not needed for operational requirements by another Military Department. If the council or similar staff review process considers it unlikely the item in question will be needed by another Military Department, screening may be omitted. A museum of one Military Department may not acquire for the purpose of exchanging historical items being screened by another Military Department museum.
ER03NO15.231
ER03NO15.232
(xiv) Avoid stockpiling condemned or obsolete combat materiel in anticipation of future exchanges. Items that cannot be exchanged within a 2-year period should be processed for disposal.
(xv) Notify exchange recipients that the Department of Defense cannot certify aircraft, components, or parts as airworthy. Aircraft, components, or parts must be certified by the FAA as airworthy before being returned to flight usage. If available, logbooks and maintenance records for FSCAP must accompany the aircraft and FSCAP. If such documentation is not available, or if the aircraft or FSCAP have been crash-damaged or similarly compromised, the aircraft, components, or parts may not be exchanged, unless the FSCAP parts have been removed from the aircraft or component prior to the exchange. Waivers to this FSCAP documentation requirement may be considered on a case-by-case basis and are restricted to “display only” property (not parts); waivers will apply only to the exchange of the whole aircraft, aircraft engines, and aircraft components. The exchange agreement must explicitly cite the lack of documentation.
(xvi) Consider any adverse market impact that may result from the exchange of certain items. The Military Department should consult with outside organizations for market impact advice, as appropriate.
(xvii) Elect to donate property without conditions; for example, when the administrative costs to the Military Department to perform yearly checks would exceed the value of the property. Unconditional donations are restricted to books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans and models, and historical artifacts valued at less than $10,000 that do not require DEMIL (see Figure 7 of this section).
ER03NO15.233
ER03NO15.234
(6)
Military departments loans of bedding.
Consistent with 10 U.S.C. 2557, the Secretary of a Military Department may provide bedding in support of homeless shelters that are operated by entities other than the Department of Defense. Bedding may be provided to the extent that the Secretary determines the donation will not interfere with military requirements.
(7)
Army loans to veterans' organizations.
(i) The Department of the Army, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 4683, may loan to recognized veterans' organizations (or local units of national veterans' organizations recognized by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs) obsolete or condemned rifles or cartridge belts for use by that unit for ceremonial purposes. Rifle loans to any one post, local unit, or municipality are limited by statute to not more than 10 rifles.
(ii) The Secretary of the Army, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 4683 and Service-unique regulations prescribed by the Secretary, may conditionally lend or donate excess M-1 rifles (not more than 15), slings, and cartridge belts to any eligible organization for use by that organization for funeral ceremonies of a member or former member of the Military Services, and for other ceremonial purposes. If the loaned or donated properties under paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section are to be used by the eligible organizations for funeral ceremonies of a member or former member of the Military Services, the Secretary may issue and deliver the rifles, together with the necessary accoutrements and blank ammunition, without charge.
(8)
Navy loans and donations.
(i) The Secretary of the Navy, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7545, may donate or loan
captured, condemned, or obsolete ordnance materiel, books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, models, trophies and flags, and other condemned or obsolete materiel, as well as materiel of historical interest. The Secretary of the Navy may donate this material to any State, territory, commonwealth, or possession of the United States and political subdivision or municipal corporation thereof, the District of Columbia, libraries, historical societies, and educational institutions whose graduates or students were in World War I or World War II.
(A) Loans and donations made under this authority will be subject to the same guidelines for donations in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2572.
(B) If materiel to be loaned or donated is of historic interest, the application will be forwarded through the Navy Curator.
(C) Donations made under this authority must first be referred to the Congress.
(D) Donations and loans made under 10 U.S.C. 7545 will be made with a conditional deed of gift (see Figure 5 of this section for sample wording).
(ii) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7306, the Secretary of the Navy, with approval of Congress, may donate obsolete, condemned, or captured Navy ships, boats, and small landing craft to the States, territories, or possessions of the United States, and political subdivisions or municipal corporations thereof, the District of Columbia, or to associations or corporations whose charter or articles of agreement denies them the right to operate for profit. The Navy restricts the use of donated vessels for use in static display purposes only (
i.e.,
as memorials or museums).
(A) Applications for ships, boats, and small landing craft will be submitted to the Commander, Naval Sea Systems Command (NSEA 00DG), 2531 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22240-5160.
(B) Before submission of an application, the applicant must locate obsolete, condemned, or captured Navy ships, boats, and small landing craft which are available for transfer.
(iii) Each application will contain:
(A) Type of vessel desired, or in the case of combatant vessels, the official Navy identification of the vessel desired.
(B) Statement of the proposed use to be made of the vessel and where it will be located.
(C) Statement describing and confirming availability of a berthing site and the facilities and personnel to maintain the vessel.
(D) Statement that the applicant agrees to maintain the vessel, at its own expense, in a condition satisfactory to the Department of the Navy, in accordance with instructions that the Department may issue, and that no expense will result to the United States as a consequence of such terms and conditions prescribed by the Department of the Navy.
(E) Statement that the applicant agrees to take delivery of the vessel “as is, where is” at its berthing site and to pay all charges incident to such delivery, including without limitation preparation of the vessel for removal or tow, towing, insurance, and berthing or other installation at the applicant's site.
(F) Statement of financial resources currently available to the applicant to pay the costs required to be assumed by a donee. The statement should include a summary of sources, annual income, and annual expenditures exclusive of the estimated costs attributable to the requested vessel to permit an evaluation of funds available for upkeep of the vessel. In the event the applicant will rely on commitments of donated services and materials for maintenance and use of the vessel, such commitments must be described in detail.
(G) Statement that the applicant agrees that it will return the vessel, if and when requested to do so by the Department of the Navy, during a national emergency, and will not, without the written consent of the Department, use the vessel other than as stated in the application or destroy, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the vessel.
(H) If the applicant asserts it is a corporation or association whose charter or articles of agreement denies it the
right to operate for profit, their application must also contain a copy of the organization's bylaws and either:
(
1
) A properly authenticated copy of the charter.
(
2
) Certificate of incorporation.
(
3
) Articles of agreement made either by:
(
i
) The Secretary of State or other appropriate officials of the State under the laws where the applicant is incorporated.
(
ii
) Organized or other appropriate public official having custody of such charter, certificate or articles.
(I) If the applicant is not incorporated, their application must also include the citation of the law and a certified copy of the association's charter stating it is empowered to hold property and to be bound by the acts of the proposed signatories to the donation agreement.
(J) If the applicant is not a State, territory, or possession of the United States, a political subdivision or municipal corporation thereof, or the District of Columbia, the application must also include a copy of a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the applicant is exempt from tax under the Internal Revenue Code.
(K) A notarized copy of the resolution or other action of its governing board or membership authorizing the person signing the application to represent the organization and to sign on its behalf to acquire a vessel.
(L) A signed copy of the assurance of compliance.
(M) A statement that the vessel will be used as a static display only as a memorial or museum and no system aboard the vessel will be activated or permitted to be activated for the purpose of navigation or movement under its own power.
(N) A statement that the galley will not be activated for serving meals.
(iv) Upon receipt, the Navy will determine the eligibility of the applicant to receive a vessel by donation. If eligible, the formal application will be processed and notice of intention to donate presented to the Congress as required by 10 U.S.C. 7306, provided the applicant has presented evidence satisfactory to the government that the applicant has adequate financial means to accomplish all of the obligations required under a donation contract. The Navy will have authority to donate only after the application has been before the Congress for a period of 60 days of continuous session without adverse action by the Congress in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7306.
(v) All vessels, boats, and service craft, donated in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7306, will be used as static displays only for use as memorials and cannot be activated for the purpose of navigation or movement under its own power. Donations of vessels under any other authority of this section are subject to certain inspection and certification requirements. Applicants for vessels or service craft will be advised in writing by the office taking action on the applications that, should their request be approved and before operation of the vessel or service craft, one of the following stipulations will apply:
(A) The donee agrees that if the vessel is 65 feet in length or less, it may not be operated without a valid certificate of inspection issued by the U.S. Coast Guard, while carrying more than six passengers, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(21)(B).
(B) The donee agrees that if the vessel is more than 65 feet in length, it may not be operated without a valid certificate of inspection issued by the U.S. Coast Guard.
(vi) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7546 and subject to the approval of the Navy Museum Curator, the nameplate or any small article of a negligible or sentimental value from a ship may be loaned or donated to any individual who sponsored that ship provided that such loan or donation will be at no expense to the Navy.
(9)
Donation of excess chapel property.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2580, the Secretary of a Military Department may donate excess personal property to religious organizations (as described in 26 U.S.C. 501), for the purposes of assisting such organizations in restoring or replacing property of the organization that has been damaged or destroyed as a result of arson or terrorism. The property authorized for donation will be limited to ecclesiastical equipment, furnishings and supplies
that fall within FSC 9925, and furniture.
(10)
Disposition after use of special donations (gifts), loans, and exchanges.
(i) The requirements of the recipient organization are:
(A) For materiel no longer desired or authorized for continued use by a recipient organization, the Military Department will advise the recipient organization if it wants to repossess the property. Regardless of the determination made, care will be taken to ensure the recipient organization fulfills its responsibility to finalize the disposition action at no cost to the government. Repossession of the property will be governed by the property's historical significance, its potential for use in behalf of other requests, or its estimated sale value, if sold by the Department of Defense. Repossession of property will be documented; copies of the documentation will be retained by the donee and lender.
(B) Based on type of property, its location, etc., it is not always feasible to require the physical movement of the property to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site. In these cases, the owning Military Department may elect to work with DLA Disposition Services for receipt and sale in-place, when economically feasible.
(ii) Return of property donated to the Navy is subject to the approval of the Curator for the Department of the Navy. Any article, materiel, or equipment, including silver service, loaned or donated to the naval service by any State, group, or organization may be returned to the lender or donee in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7546. When the owner cannot be located after a reasonable search, or if, after being offered the property, the owner states in writing that the return of the property is not desired, the property will be disposed of in the same manner as other surplus property.
(e)
Disaster assistance for States.
42 U.S.C. chapter 68 allows for disaster assistance to States.
(1) 42 U.S.C. chapter 68, also known and referred to in this rule as “The Stafford Act” authorizes federal assistance to States, local governments, and relief organizations. Upon declaration by the President of an emergency or a major disaster, under, the Stafford Act, the State receiving the declaration is notified immediately and a notice of the declaration is published in the
Federal Register
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(2) Excess personal property may be loaned to State and local governments for use or distribution for emergency or major disaster assistance purposes. Such uses may include the restoration of public facilities that have been damaged as well as the essential rehabilitation of individuals in need of major disaster assistance. The availability of Federal assistance under the Stafford Act is subject to the time periods prescribed in FEMA regulations.
(f)
Academic institutions and non-profit organizations.
Educational partnership (or other) agreements may be established for the loan or donation of property.
(1) Under an educational partnership (or other) agreement, and consistent with 10 U.S.C. 2194, the Secretary of Defense authorized the director of each defense laboratory to enter into one or more educational partnership agreements with U.S. educational institutions for the purpose of encouraging and enhancing study in scientific disciplines at all levels of education. The educational institutions will be local educational agencies, colleges, universities, and any other nonprofit institutions that are dedicated to improving science, mathematics, and engineering education. The point of contact is the DoD Technology Transfer Program Manager, Suite 1401 Two Skyline Place, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, VA 22041-3466.
(2) In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 3710(i), the director of a DoD laboratory may directly transfer (donate) laboratory (
e.g.,
scientific, research) equipment that is excess to the needs of that laboratory to public and private schools and nonprofit institutions in the U.S. zone of interior (ZI).
(3) Determinations of property suitable for donation will be made by the head of the laboratory. Property will be screened within the DoD laboratory and scientific community prior to release.
(4) Laboratories should be aware that some property might be environmentally regulated and, if exported, may require a U.S. DoS or Commerce export license, including certain circumstances where exports to foreign parties take place in the U.S. Moreover, some property may require DEMIL. Standard eligibility criteria must be ensured and a screening process for determining trade and security control risk are mandatory.
§ 273.9
Through-life traceability of uniquely identified items.
(a)
Authority and scope
—(1)
Property accountability.
The accountability of property will be enabled by IUID for identification, tracking, and management in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64 and DoD Directive 8320.03, “Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a Net-Centric Department of Defense” (
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/UID/
(
attachments/832003p1-20070420.pdf
). DoD Component heads post changes to the property records for all transactions as required (
e.g.,
loan, loss, damage, disposal, inventory adjustments, item modification, transfer, sale) pursuant to DoD Instruction 5000.64.
(2)
IUID.
IUID provides a standards-based approach to establish a UII encoded in a machine-readable two-dimensional data matrix barcode that serves to distinguish a discrete item from other items. Qualifying items as defined by DoD Instruction 8320.04, “Item Unique Identification (IUID) Standards for Tangible Personal Property” (
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/832004p.pdf
) will be marked with a two-dimensional Data Matrix barcode in accordance with Military Standard 130N, “Department of Defense Standard Practice Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property” (available at
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/docs/mil-std130N_ch1.pdf
) and registered in the IUID Registry.
(3)
Identification marking of U.S. military property.
Military Standard 130N provides the item marking criteria for development of specific marking requirements and methods for identification of items of military property produced, stocked, stored, and issued by or for the DoD. It also provides the criteria and data content for both free text and machine-readable information applications of item identification two-dimensional data matrix marking and includes the IUID requirements of DoD Instruction 8320.04.
(4)
Registration of UIIs.
Enclosure 3 of DoD Instruction 8320.04 provides procedures for the registration of UIIs in the DoD IUID Registry.
(b)
Updating the DoD IUID Registry
—(1)
Obtaining user access.
Authorized Government users may add items, update, and add events to existing items. Generating activities and DLA Disposal Services can register for access by following the instructions for the Business Partner Network Support Environment Registration System at
https://iuid.logisticsinformationservice.dla.mil/BRS
.
(2)
Life-cycle events for materiel disposition.
When an item leaves DoD inventory, its status, or life-cycle event, must be changed in the DoD IUID. A drop-down menu in the registry contains the possible life-cycle events: abandoned, consumed, destroyed by accident, destroyed by combat, donated, exchanged—repair, exchanged—sold, exchanged—warranty, expended—experimental/target, expended—normal use, leased, loaned, lost, reintroduced, retired, scrapped, sold—foreign government, sold—historic, sold—nongovernment, sold—other federal, sold—state/local, and stolen.
(3)
Updating procedures.
When an item that is marked with a UII enters the materiel disposition process through a transfer between Components or if the item leaves DoD inventory, an update to the IUID Registry is required. Procedures for performing required updates to the IUID Registry can be found in the IUID registry user manual available at
https://iuid.logisticsinformationservice.dla.mil
.

# Subpart B—Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
§ 273.10
Purpose.
(a) This part is composed of several subparts, each containing its own purpose. In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive 5134.12, “Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR)),” DoD Instruction 4140.01, “DoD Supply
Chain Materiel Management Policy,” and DoD Instruction 4160.28, “DoD Demilitarization (DEMIL) Program,” this part establishes the sequence of processes for the disposition of personal property of the DoD Components.
(b) This subpart:
(1) Implements policy for reutilization, transfer, excess property screening, and issue of surplus property and foreign excess personal property (FEPP), scrap released by qualified recycling programs (QRPs), and non-QRP scrap.
(2) Provides guidance for removing excess material through security assistance programs and foreign military sales (FMS).
(3) Provides detailed instructions for the sale of surplus property and FEPP, scrap released by QRPs, and non-QRP scrap.
§ 273.11
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, also known as the Federal Property Management Regulation and Federal Management Regulation (FPMR and FMR), and 40 U.S.C. subtitle I, also known as the Federal Property and Administrative Services, take precedence over this part if a procedural conflict exists.
§ 273.12
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this subpart:
Abandonment and destruction (A/D).
A method for handling property that:
(1) Is abandoned and a diligent effort to determine the owner is unsuccessful.
(2) Is uneconomical to repair or the estimated costs of the continued care and handling of the property exceeds the estimated proceeds of sale.
(3) Has an estimated cost of disposal by A/D that is less than the net sales cost.
Accountability.
The obligation imposed by law, lawful order, or regulation accepted by a person for keeping accurate records to ensure control of property, documents, or funds with or without possession of the property. The person who is accountable is concerned with control, while the person who has possession is responsible for custody, care, and safekeeping.
Accountable officer.
The individual responsible for acquiring and maintaining DoD items of supply (physical property and records), approving property orders (including reutilization of excess property requests), and authenticating materiel release orders (MROs). Comparative terms are: Army Supply Support Accountable Officer, Navy Accountable Officer, Air Force Accountable Officer/Chief of Supply Materiel Support Division, Marine Corps Unit Supply Officer.
Acquisition cost.
The amount paid for property, including transportation costs, net any trade and cash discounts. Also see standard price.
Ammunition.
Generic term related mainly to articles of military application consisting of all kinds of bombs, grenades, rockets, mines, projectiles, and other similar devices or contrivances.
Batchlot.
The physical grouping of individual receipts of low-dollar-value property. The physical grouping consolidates multiple disposal turn-in documents (DTIDs) under a single cover DTID. The objective of batchlotting is to reduce the time and costs related to physical handling and administrative processes required for receiving items individually. The cover DTID establishes accountability in the accountable record, and individual line items lose their identity.
Bid.
A response to an offer to sell, that, if accepted, would bind the bidder to the terms and conditions of the contract (including the bid price).
Bidder.
Any entity that is responding to or has responded to an offer to sell.
Commerce control list (CCL) items (formerly known as strategic list item).
Commodities, software, and technology
subject to export controls in accordance with Export Administration Regulations (EAR) in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. The EAR contains the CCL and is administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security, DOC.
Component.
An item that is useful only when used in conjunction with an end item. Components are also commonly referred to as assemblies. For purposes of this definition an assembly and a component are the same. There are two types of “components: Major components and minor components. A major component includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an end item without which the end item is inoperable. For example, for an automobile, components will include the engine, transmission, and battery. If you do not have all those items, the automobile will not function, or function as effectively. A minor component includes any assembled element of a major component. Components” consist of parts. References in the CCL to components include both major components and minor components.
Continental United States (CONUS).
Territory, including the adjacent territorial waters, located within the North American continent between Canada and Mexico (comprises 48 States and the District of Columbia).
Contractor inventory.
(1) Any property acquired by and in the possession of a contractor or subcontractor (including Government-furnished property) under a contract, terms of which vest title in the U.S. Government (USG) and in excess of the amounts needed to complete full performance under the entire contract.
(2) Any property for which the USG is obligated to or has an option to take over under any type of contract resulting from changes in the specifications or plans or termination of such contract (or subcontract) before completion of the work, for the convenience of or at the option of the USG.
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Disposition Services.
The organization provides DoD with worldwide reuse, recycling and disposal solutions that focus on efficiency, cost avoidance and compliance.
DLA Disposition Services site.
The DLA Disposition Services office that has accountability for and control over disposable property. May be managed in part by a commercial contractor. The term is applicable whether the disposal facility is on a commercial site or a Government installation and applies to both Government and contractor employees performing the disposal mission.
Demilitarization (DEMIL) Code A.
DEMIL not required.
DEMIL.
The act of eliminating the functional capabilities and inherent military design features from DoD personal property. Methods and degree range from removal and destruction of critical features to total destruction by cutting, crushing, shredding, melting, burning, etc. DEMIL is required to prevent property from being used for its originally intended purpose and to prevent the release of inherent design information that could be used against the United States. DEMIL applies to material in both serviceable and unserviceable condition.
Disposal.
End-of-life tasks or actions for residual materials resulting from demilitarization or disposition operations.
Disposition.
The process of reusing, recycling, converting, redistributing, transferring, donating, selling, demilitarizing, treating, destroying, or fulfilling other end of life tasks or actions for DoD property. Does not include real (real estate) property.
Diversion.
Includes collection, separation, and processing of material for use as raw material in the manufacture of goods sold or distributed in commerce or the reuse of material as substitutes for goods made of virgin material.
DoD Activity Address Code (DoDAAC).
A 6-digit code assigned by the Defense Automatic Addressing System (DAAS) to provide a standardized address code system for identifying activities and for use in transmission of supply and logistics information that supports the movement of property.
DoD Item Unique Identification (IUID) Registry.
The DoD data repository that receives input from both industry and Government sources and provides storage of, and access to, data that identifies and describes tangible Government personal property.
Donation.
The act of providing surplus personal property at no charge to a qualified donation recipient, as allocated by the General Services Administration (GSA).
Educational institution.
An approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution or facility, entity, or organization conducting educational programs, including research for any such programs, such as a childcare center, school, college, university, school for the mentally handicapped, school for the physically handicapped, or an educational radio or television station.
End of screening date.
The date when formal reutilization, transfer, and donation screening time expires.
Estimated fair market value.
The selling agency's best estimate of what the property would be sold for if offered for public sale.
Excess personal property.
(1)
Domestic excess.
Personal property that the United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA (
i.e.,
the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands), consider excess to the needs and mission requirements of the United States.
(2)
DoD Component excess.
Items of DoD Component owned property that are not required for their needs and the discharge of their responsibilities as determined by the head of the Service or Agency.
(3)
Foreign excess personal property (FEPP).
U.S.-owned excess personal property that is located outside the ZI. This property becomes surplus and is eligible for donation and sale as described in § 273.15(b).
Federal civilian agency (FCA).
Any non-defense executive agency (
e.g.
DoS, Department of Homeland Security) or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the USG (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his or her direction).
Federal condition code.
A two-digit code consisting of an alphabet supply condition code in the first digit, and a numeric or alphabet disposal condition code (DCC) in the second digit. A combination of the supply condition code and the DCC, which most accurately describes the materiel's physical condition.
(1)
Disposal condition code (DCC).
Codes assigned by the DLA Disposition Services site based upon inspection of materiel at time of receipt.
(2)
Supply condition codes.
Codes used to classify materiel in terms of readiness for issue and use or to identify action underway to change the status of materiel. These codes are assigned by the DoD Components. DLA Disposition Services may change a supply condition code if the code was assigned improperly and the property is of a non-technical nature. If change is not appropriate or property is of a technical nature, DLA Disposition Services sites may challenge a suspicious supply condition code.
FEPP.
See excess personal property.
Foreign military sales (FMS).
A process through which eligible foreign governments and international organizations may purchase defense articles and services from the USG. A government-to-government agreement, documented in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M.
Foreign purchased property.
Property paid for by foreign countries, but where ownership is retained by the United States.
Generating activity (“generator”).
The activity that declares personal property excess to its needs.
Government furnished equipment.
An item of special tooling, special test equipment, or equipment, in the possession of, or directly acquired by, the Government and subsequently furnished to the contractor for the performance of a contract.
Government furnished materiel.
Property provided by the U.S. Government for the purpose of being incorporated into or attached to a deliverable end item or that will be consumed or expended in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel includes assemblies, components, parts, raw and process material, and small tools and supplies that may be consumed in normal use in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel does not
include material provided to contractors on a cash-sale basis nor does it include military property, which are government-owned components, contractor acquired property, government furnished equipment, or major end items being repaired by commercial contractors for return to the government.
GSAXcess®.
A totally web-enabled platform that eligible customers use to access functions of GSAXcess® for reporting, searching, and selecting property. This includes the entry site for the Federal Excess Personal Property Utilization Program and the Federal Surplus Personal Property Donation Program operated by the GSA.
Hazardous property (HP).
A composite term to describe DoD excess property, surplus property, and FEPP, which may be hazardous to human health, human safety, or the environment. Various Federal, State, and local safety and environmental laws regulate the use and disposal of HP. In more technical terms, HP includes property having one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) Has a flashpoint below 200 °F (93 °C) closed cup, or is subject to spontaneous heating or is subject to polymerization with release of large amounts of energy when handled, stored, and shipped without adequate control.
(2) Has a threshold limit value equal to or below 1,000 parts per million for gases and vapors, below 500 milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m
3
) for fumes, and equal to or less than 30 million particles per cubic foot or 10 mg/m
3
for dusts (less than or equal to 2.0 fibers per cubic centimeter greater than 5 micrometers in length for fibrous materials).
(3) Causes 50 percent fatalities to test animals when a single oral dose is administered in doses of less than 500 mg per kilogram of test animal weight.
(4) Is a flammable solid as defined in 49 CFR 173.124, or is an oxidizer as defined in 49 CFR 173.127, or is a strong oxidizing or reducing agent with a half cell potential in acid solution of greater than +1.0 volt as specified in Latimer's table on the oxidation-reduction potential.
(5) Causes first-degree burns to skin in short-time exposure or is systematically toxic by skin contact.
(6) May produce dust, gases, fumes, vapors, mists, or smoke with one or more of the characteristics in the course of normal operations.
(7) Produces sensitizing or irritating effects.
(8) Is radioactive.
(9) Has special characteristics which, in the opinion of the manufacturer, could cause harm to personnel if used or stored improperly.
(10) Is hazardous in accordance with 29 CFR part 1910, also known as the Occupational Safety and Health Standards.
(11) Is hazardous in accordance with 49 CFR parts 171 through 179.
(12) Is regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 280.
Hazardous waste (HW).
An item that is regulated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6901 or by State regulation as an HW. HW is defined federally at 40 CFR part 261. Overseas, HW is defined in the applicable final governing standards or overseas environmental baseline guidance document, or host nation laws and regulations.
Identical bid.
Bids for the same item of property having the same total price.
Industrial scrap.
Consists of short ends, machinings, spoiled materials, and similar residue generated by an industrial-funded activity.
Information technology.
Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data or information by the DoD Component. Includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related sources. Does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. Equipment is “used” by a DoD Component if the equipment is used by the DoD Component directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the DoD Component that:
(1) Requires the use of such equipment.
(2) Requires the use to a significant extent of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product.
Installation.
A military facility together with its buildings, building equipment, and subsidiary facilities such as piers, spurs, access roads, and beacons.
International organizations.
For trade security control purposes, this term includes: Columbo Plan Council for Technical Cooperation in South and Southeast Asia; European Atomic Energy Community; Indus Basin Development; International Atomic Energy; International Red Cross; NATO; Organization of American States; Pan American Health Organization; United Nations (UN); UN Children's Fund; UN Development Program; UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization; UN High Commissioner for Refugees Programs; UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East; World Health Organization; and other international organizations approved by a U.S. diplomatic mission.
Interservice.
Action by one Military Department or Defense Agency ICP to provide materiel and directly related services to another Military Department or Defense Agency ICP (either on a recurring or nonrecurring basis).
Inventory adjustments.
Changes made in inventory quantities and values resulting from inventory recounts and validations.
Inventory control point (ICP).
An organizational unit or activity within the DoD supply system that is assigned the primary responsibility for the materiel management of a group of items either for a particular Military Department or for the DoD as a whole. In addition to materiel manager functions, an ICP may perform other logistics functions in support of a particular Military Department or for a particular end item (
e.g.,
centralized computation of retail requirements levels and engineering tasks associated with weapon system components).
Item unique identification (IUID).
A system of establishing globally widespread unique identifiers on items of supply within the DoD, which serves to distinguish a discrete entity or relationship from other like and unlike entities or relationships. Automatic identification technology is used to capture and communicate IUID information.
Law enforcement agencies (LEAs).
Government agencies whose primary function is the enforcement of applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and whose compensated law enforcement officers have powers of arrest and apprehension.
Local screening.
The onsite review of excess, surplus, and FEPP for reutilization, transfer, and donation.
MAP property.
U.S. security assistance property provided under 22 U.S.C.2151, also known as the Foreign Assistance Act, generally on a non-reimbursable basis.
Marketing.
The function of directing the flow of surplus and FEPP to the buyer, encompassing all related aspects of merchandising, market research, sale promotion, advertising, publicity, and selling.
Material potentially presenting an explosive hazard (MPPEH).
Material owned or controlled by the Department of Defense that, prior to determination of its explosives safety status, potentially contains explosives or munitions (
e.g.,
munitions containers and packaging material; munitions debris remaining after munitions use, demilitarization, or disposal; and range-related debris) or potentially contains a high enough concentration of explosives that the material presents an explosive hazard (
e.g.,
equipment, drainage systems, holding tanks, piping, or ventilation ducts that were associated with munitions production, demilitarization, or disposal operations). Excluded from MPPEH are munitions within the DoD-established munitions management system and other items that may present explosion hazards (
e.g.,
gasoline cans and compressed gas cylinders) that are not munitions and are not intended for use as munitions.
Munitions list item (MLI).
Any item contained on the USML in 22 CFR part 121. Defense articles, associated technical data (including software), and defense services recorded or stored in any physical form, controlled by 22 CFR parts 120 through 130. 22 CFR part 121,
which contains the USML, is administered by the DoS Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.
Museum, DoD or Service.
An appropriated fund entity that is a permanent activity with a historical collection, open to both the military and civilian public at regularly scheduled hours, and is in the care of a professional qualified staff that performs curatorial and related historical duties full time.
Mutilation.
A process that renders materiel unfit for its originally intended purposes by cutting, tearing, scratching, crushing, breaking, punching, shearing, burning, neutralizing, etc.
National stock number (NSN).
The 13-digit stock number replacing the 11-digit federal stock number. It consists of the 4-digit federal supply classification code and the 9-digit national item identification number. The national item identification number consists of a 2-digit National Codification Bureau number designating the central cataloging office (whether North Atlantic Treaty Organization or other friendly country) that assigned the number and a 7-digit (xxx-xxxx) nonsignificant number. Arrange the number as follows: 9999-00-999-9999.
Nonappropriated funds (NAF).
Funds generated by DoD military and civilian personnel and their dependents and used to augment funds appropriated by Congress to provide a comprehensive, morale building, welfare, religious, educational, and recreational program, designed to improve the well-being of military and civilian personnel and their dependents.
NAF property.
Property purchased with NAFs, by religious activities or nonappropriated morale welfare or recreational activities, post exchanges, ships stores, officer and noncommissioned officer clubs, and similar activities. Such property is not Federal property.
Nonprofit institution.
An institution or organization, no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and which has been held to be tax exempt under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 501, also known as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Personal property.
Property except real property. Excludes records of the Federal Government, battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.
Precious metals recovery program (PMRP).
A DoD program for identification, accumulation, recovery, and refinement of precious metals (PM) from excess and surplus end items, scrap, hypo solution, and other PM bearing materiel for authorized internal purposes or as Government furnished materiel.
Precious metals (PM).
Gold, silver, and the platinum group metals (platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium).
Privately owned personal property.
Personal effects of DoD personnel (military or civilian) that are not, nor will ever become, government property unless the owner (or heirs, next of kin, or legal representative of the owner) executes a written and signed release document unconditionally giving the USG all right, title, and interest in the privately owned property.
Qualified recycling programs (QRP).
Organized operations that require concerted efforts to cost effectively divert or recover scrap or waste, as well as efforts to identify, segregate, and maintain the integrity of recyclable material to maintain or enhance its marketability. If administered by a DoD Component, a QRP includes adherence to a control process providing accountability for all materials processed through program operations.
Radioactive material.
Any material or combination of materials that spontaneously emits ionizing radiation and which is subject to regulation as radioactive or nuclear material under any Federal law or regulation.
Reclamation.
A cost avoidance or savings measure to recover useful (serviceable) end items, repair parts, components, or assemblies from one or more principal end items of equipment or assemblies (usually Supply condition codes (SCCs), H, P, and R) for the purpose of restoration to use through replacement or repair of one or more unserviceable, but repairable principal end item of equipment or assemblies (usually SCCs E, F, and G). Reclamation is preferable prior to disposition
(
e.g.,
DLA Disposition Services site turn-in), but end items or assemblies may be withdrawn from DLA Disposition Services site for reclamation purposes.
Responsibility criteria.
The situations outlined in 41 CFR chapter 102 that require some certifications from buyers; either that the buyer knows they need to take care of the property because of its characteristics, or because the buyer must meet certain professional or licensing criteria.
Responsive bid.
A bid that meets all the terms, conditions, and specifications necessary.
Restricted parties.
Those countries or entities that the Department of State (DoS), Department of Commerce (DOC), or Treasury have determined to be prohibited or sanctioned for the purpose of export, sale, transfer, or resale of items controlled on the United States Munitions List (USML) or CCL. A consolidated list of prohibited entities or destinations for which transfers may be limited or barred, may be found at:
http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp.
Reutilization.
The act of re-issuing FEPP and excess property to DoD Components. Also includes qualified special programs (
e.g.,
LEA, Humanitarian Assistance Program (HAP), Military Affiliate Radio System (MARS)) pursuant to applicable enabling statutes.
Reutilization screening.
The act of reviewing, either by automated or physical means, available FEPP, excess or surplus personal property to meet known or anticipated requirements.
Sales contract.
An agreement between two parties, binding upon both, to transfer title of specified property for a consideration.
Sales contracting officer (SCO).
An individual who has been duly appointed and granted the authority conferred by law according to the procedures in this part to sell surplus and FEPP by any of the authorized and prescribed methods of sale. Also referred to as the SAR.
Scrap.
Recyclable waste and discarded materials derived from items that have been rendered useless beyond repair, rehabilitation, or restoration such that the item's original identity, utility, form, fit and function have been destroyed. Items can be classified as scrap if processed by cutting, tearing, crushing, mangling, shredding, or melting. Intact or recognizable USML or CCL items, components, and parts are not scrap. 41 CFR 102-36.40 provides additional information on scrap.
Screening.
The process of physically inspecting property or reviewing lists or reports of property to determine whether it is usable or needed.
Screening period.
The period in which excess and surplus personal property is made available for reutilization, transfer, or surplus donation to eligible recipients.
Security assistance.
A group of programs, authorized by law, that allows the transfer of military articles and services to friendly foreign governments.
Small arms and light weapons.
Man-portable weapons made or modified to military specifications for use as lethal instruments of war that expel a shot, bullet, or projectile by action of an explosive. Small arms are broadly categorized as those weapons intended for use by individual members of armed or security forces. They include handguns; rifles and carbines; sub-machine guns; and light machine guns. Light weapons are broadly categorized as those weapons designed for use by two or three members of armed or security forces serving as a crew, although some may be used by a single person. They include heavy machine guns; hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers; portable anti-aircraft guns; portable anti-tank guns; recoilless rifles; man-portable launchers of missile and rocket systems; and mortars.
Solid waste.
Includes garbage, refuse, and other discarded materials, including solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community activities. Includes solids, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material which is discarded and not otherwise excluded by statute or regulation. Mining and agricultural solid wastes, hazardous wastes (HW), sludge, construction and demolition wastes, and infectious wastes are not included in this category.
Special programs.
Programs specified by legislative approval, such as FMS,
LEAs and fire fighters, identified on DLA Disposition Services Web site (
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/miscprograms.shtml
).
State agency for surplus property (SASP).
The agency designated under State law to receive Federal surplus personal property for distribution to eligible donation recipients within the States as provided for in 40 U.S.C. 549.
State or local government.
A State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof.
Transfer.
The act of providing FEPP and excess personal property to FCAs as stipulated in the FMR. Property is allocated by the GSA.
Transfer order.
Document (SF 122 and SF 123) issued by DLA Disposition Services or the headquarters or regional office of GSA directing issue of excess personal property.
Trade security control (TSCs).
Policy and procedures, in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08, designed to prevent the sale or shipment of USG materiel to any person, organization, or country whose interests are unfriendly or hostile to those of the United States and to ensure that the disposal of DoD personal property is performed in compliance with U.S. export control laws and regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
Unique item identifier (UII).
A set of data elements marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous. The term includes a concatenated UII or a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.
Usable property.
Commercial and military type property other than scrap and waste.
Wash-post.
A methodology for transfer of accountability to the DLA Disposition Services site whereby the DLA Disposition Services site only accepts accountability at the time they also document a release from the account, through reutilization, transfer, donation, sales, or disposal.
Zone of interior (ZI).
The United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA and where excess property is considered domestic excess. Includes the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
§ 273.13
Policy.
It is DoD policy consistent with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 that excess DoD property must be screened and redistributed among the DoD Components, and reported as excess to the GSA. Pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 701, DoD will efficiently and economically dispose DoD FEPP.
§ 273.14
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT
L), and in accordance with DoD Directive 5134.12:
(1) Develops DoD materiel disposition policies, including policies for FEPP.
(2) Oversees the effective implementation of the DoD materiel disposition program.
(3) Approves changes to FEPP procedures as appropriate to support contingency operations.
(b) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L
MR)):
(1) Administers the worldwide Defense Materiel Disposition Program for the reutilization, transfer, screening, issue, and sale of FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.
(2) Implements guidance issued by the ASD(L
MR) or other organizational elements of the OSD and establishes system concepts and requirements, resource management, program guidance, budgeting and funding, training and career development, management review and analysis, internal control measures, and crime prevention for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(3) Annually provides to ASD(L
MR) a summary of sales proceeds from recycling transactions in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2577.
(4) Ensures prompt processing of monthly sales proceeds under the QRP to DoD Components for reconciliation of sales proceeds and transactions.
(c) The DoD Component Heads:
(1) Implement the procedures prescribed in this subpart and ensure that supplemental guidance and procedures are in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.
(2) Reutilize, transfer, screen, issue and sell FEPP, excess and surplus personal property according to the procedures in § 273.15(a) and (c).
(3) Treat the disposal of DoD property as an integral part of DoD Supply Chain Management; ensure that disposal actions and costs are a part of “end-to-end” management of items and that disposal of property is a planned event at all levels of their organizations.
(4) Furnish the Director, DLA, with mutually agreed-upon data necessary to administer the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.
(5) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities, for the operations of tenant and related off-site DLA Disposition Services field activities under inter-Service support agreements (ISSAs).
(6) Dispose HP specifically designated as requiring Military Department processing.
(7) Request DLA Disposition Services provide sales services, as needed, for recyclable marketable materials generated as a result of resource recovery programs.
(8) Monitor, with DLA Disposition Services Site personnel, all property sent to landfills to ensure no economically salable property is discarded.
(9) Report, accurately identify on approved turn in documents, and turn in all authorized scrap generations to servicing DLA Disposition Services Sites.
(10) Authorize installation commanders, as appropriate, to sell directly recyclable and other QRP materials, or to consign them to the DLA Disposition Services for sale.
§ 273.15
Procedures.
(a)
Sale of surplus and FEPP, scrap generated from QRPS, and non-QRP scrap
—(1)
Authority and scope
—(i)
FPMR and FMR.
The provisions of this section are pursuant to 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, also known as the FPMR and FMR, respectively.
(ii)
Additional guidance.
(A) Policy and procedures for the control of MLIs and Commerce Control List (CCL) items are contained in DoD Instruction 4160.28, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, DoD Instruction 4140.62, “Materiel Potentially Presenting an Explosive Hazard” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414062p.pdf
), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, and incorporated in the provisions of DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(B) 31 U.S.C. 3711-3720E provides an additional statutory requirement applicable to the sale of personal property.
(C) 48 CFR part 33 provide additional guidance on handling disputes from the sale of personal property.
(D) 48 CFR subpart 9.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, provides direction on the debarment or suspension of individuals or entities.
(E) Sales of FEPP, although briefly addressed in the FMR, are managed by the agency head and must be in compliance with foreign policy of the United States and the terms and conditions of any applicable host-nation agreement. For additional information on processing FEPP, see Enclosure 4 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2.
(F) DoD Directive 3230.3, “DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/323003p.pdf
) allows the sale of dedicated expendable launch vehicle (ELV) equipment directly to commercial ELV vendors in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation.
(2)
Exclusions.
This subpart does not govern the sale of property that is regulated by the laws or agencies identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The information in
paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) is included for the DoD Components to reference when commodities in their possession become excess and disposal requires compliance with this part.
(i) The Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98
et seq.
) provides for the acquisition, disposal (sale) and retention of stocks of certain strategic and critical materials and encourages the conservation and development of sources of such materials within the United States. These materials when acquired and stored constitute and are collectively known as the National Defense Stockpile (NDS) or the “stockpile.”
(ii) The Department of Transportation Maritime Administration has jurisdiction over the disposal of vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more that the Secretary of Transportation determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use, excluding specified combatant vessels.
(iii) Under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2576, the Secretary of Defense may sell designated items (such as pistols, revolvers, shotguns, rifles of a caliber not exceeding .30, ammunition for such firearms, and other appropriate equipment) to State and local law enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, and emergency management agencies, at fair market value if the designated items:
(A) Have been determined to be surplus property.
(B) Are certified as being necessary and suitable for the operation and exclusive use of such agency by the Governor (or such State official as he or she may designate) of the State in which such agency is located.
(C) Do not include used gas masks and any protective body armor.
(iv) DLA Disposition Services provides a sales service to the DoD pursuant to the exchange or sale according to the procedures in DoD Manual 4140.01 that implement the authority in 41 CFR part 102-39; however, general and specific provisions through this method of sale are not addressed in this subpart. More information may be obtained from the DLA Disposition Services Exchange Sale Web site at
http://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/sales/typesale.shtml.
(3)
Sales of surplus property, FEPP, scrap generated by QRPs, and other scrap.
(i) DLA Disposition Services is the primary agency for managing surplus and FEPP sales, to include sales of scrap released by Military Department QRPs and non-QRP scrap.
(ii) DoD Components are responsible for disposing of surplus property, FEPP, scrap released by QRPs, and other scrap through sales to the general public and State and local governments through execution of an awarded contract.
(iii) The Military Departments are authorized to sell eligible scrap released by their respective QRPs and non-excess property eligible for exchange or sale without the involvement of DLA Disposition Services in accordance with their internal operating guidance, DoD Manual 4140.01, and 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.
(iv) DoD Components advertise excess and surplus personal property for sale only after all prescribed screening actions are taken, unless screening is not required. See DoD Manual 4160.21 Volume 4 for exempt items.
(v) Sales actions include planning, merchandising, pre-award reviews, bid evaluation and award, contract administration, proceeds receipt and disbursement, and releasing the property.
(vi) Information on surplus and FEPP sales can be obtained from the DLA Customer Contact Center, accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on the DLA Disposition Services Government Sales Web site at
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/sales/index.shtml
.
(vii) Within the CONUS, DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell usable, non-hazardous surplus demilitarization (DEMIL) Code A and safe to sell Q property that is not reutilized, transferred, or donated. The commercial venture partner schedules and holds sales of property released to it by DLA Disposition Services. DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell scrap property. The scrap venture partner schedules and holds sales of scrap property released to it by DLA Disposition Services.
(viii) DLA Disposition Services conducts the balance of surplus and FEPP
sales. This includes hazardous and chemical sales and DEMIL- and mutilation-required property and scrap sales in controlled property groups.
(A) DoD Components implement controls to mitigate security risks associated with the release or disposition of DEMIL Code B MLI and DEMIL Code Q CCL items that are sensitive for reasons of national security. Certain categories of DEMIL Q items that pose no risk to national security will be available for reutilization, transfer, or donation (RTD) and sales following normal procedures. However, only FEPP with DEMIL Code A (no export license requirements except to restricted parties) may be sold in foreign countries that are not restricted parties, in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. DEMIL B and DEMIL Q items, including those posing no risk to national security are not permitted for sale.
(
1
) DEMIL B and sensitive DEMIL Q property can only be reutilized by authorized DoD Components, and approved Special Programs (FMS, law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and fire fighters).
(
2
) After DLA Disposition Services conducts initial screening, serviceable DEMIL B and sensitive DEMIL Q property will be transferred to a long term storage (LTS) facility and will remain available for reutilization screening by DoD and approved Special Programs customers.
(
3
) LTS property can be screened electronically on the DLA Disposition Services Web site at
https://www.DispositionServices.dla.mil/asset/govegeo1.html
. No physical screening is permitted at the LTS facility.
(B) DoD Components may offer for sale any property designated as unsafe for use as originally intended, with mutilation as a condition of sale. DoD Components incorporate the method and degree of mutilation into the sales offering, as required by an official notification of the safety defects. The sales offering must include a condition of sale stipulating that title of the property cannot pass from the Government to the purchaser until DoD representatives have certified and verified the mutilation has been satisfactorily accomplished and have documented this certification.
(C) SCC Q materiel with Management Code S (as defined in DLM 4000.25-1 is hazardous to public health, safety, or national security. If sold, it must require mutilation as a condition of sale. Property assigned SCC Q with Management Code O may be offered for sale without mutilation as a condition of sale, but the seller must ensure that all sales include a restrictive resale provision. In addition, any sales offerings must indicate that the restrictive resale provision is to be perpetuated to all future sales to deter reentry of the materiel to the DoD supply system.
(D) Hazardous property may be offered for sale with appropriate terms and conditions. Prior to award, DoD Components conduct a pre-award review to determine whether the prospective purchaser meets the responsibility criteria in 41 CFR chapter 102. The prospective purchaser must display the ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations before the DoD Components can make an award.
(E) Only FEPP with DEMIL Code A (no export control requirements except to restricted parties) may be offered for sale in foreign countries that are not restricted parties in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 and with additional DoD guidance in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. The sales offering must include terms and conditions relating to taxes and duties, import stipulations, and compliance with international and local laws and regulations. See Enclosure 4 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 for additional information.
(F) Other types of sales offerings for property requiring special handling must include applicable terms and conditions.
(ix) All persons or organizations are entitled to purchase property offered by DLA Disposition Services except for:
(A) Anyone under contract to conduct a specific sale, their agents or employees, and immediate members of their households.
(B) DoD military and civilian personnel and military and civilian personnel of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) whose duties include
any functional or supervisory responsibilities for or within the Defense Materiel Disposition Program, their agents, employees, and immediate members of their households.
(C) Any persons or organizations intending to ship FEPP, excess and surplus personal property to restrictedparties. See
http://pmddtc.state.gov/embargoed_csuountries/index.html
or
https://demil.osd.mil/
or
http://treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/programs
for additional information on shipments to restricted parties.
(D) Persons under 18 years of age.
(E) Individuals or firms who are ineligible to be awarded government contracts due to suspension or debarment. See the GSA Excluded Parties List at
http://epls.gov
or
https://demil.osd.mil/
or
http://treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn/
or
http://bis.doc.gov/complianceandenforcement/liststocheck.htm.
(F) Persons or entities who wish to purchase MLI or CCL items who do not meet the requirements to receive an end user certificate (EUC) as specified in 22 U.S.C. 2778
et seq.,
also known as the Arms Export Control Act, and the implementing regulations 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, also known as the International Traffic In Arms Regulations and 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, also known as the Export Administration Regulations. Information on demilitarized materiel is provided at
https://demil.osd.mil/
. A consolidated list of prohibited entities or destinations may be found at
http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp.
(x) Disposable assets (FEPP, scrap, NAF property, disposable (MAP property, etc.) may not be sold directly or indirectly to restricted parties or any other areas designated by DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.
(xi) DoD Components will update the DoD IUID Registry when an item of personal property with a UII is declared FEPP, excess and surplus personal property and is subject to reutilization, transfer, or sale. The procedures required to update the DoD IUID Registry are in § 273.9.
(4)
Responsibilities in selling personal property
—(i)
Selling agencies
. Selling agencies:
(A) Determine whether to sell as the holding agency or request another agency to sell on behalf of the holding agency.
(B) Ensure the sale complies with the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 549, and any other applicable laws.
(C) Issue internal guidance for utilizing methods of sale stipulated in subchapter B of 41 CFR chapter 102, and promote uniformity of sales procedures.
(D) Obtain appropriate authorization to conduct sales of certain property or under certain conditions (
e.g.,
approval by the agency head to use the negotiation method of sale).
(E) Ensure that all sales are made after publicly advertising for bids, except as provided for negotiated sales in 41 CFR 102-38.100 through 102-38.125.
(F) Document the required terms and conditions of each sale, including but not limited to those terms and conditions specified in 41 CFR 102-38.75.
(G) Sell personal property upon such terms and conditions as the head of the agency deems appropriate to promote fairness, openness, and timeliness. Standard Government forms (
e.g.,
the Standard Form (SF) 114 series, “Sale of Government Property”) are no longer mandatory, but may be used to document terms and conditions of the sale.
(H) Assure that only representatives designated in writing by the selling agency as selling agent representatives (SARs) are appointed to approve the sale and bind the United States in a written contractual sales agreement. The DLA Disposition Services equivalent of SARs are SCOs. The selling agency determines the requirements for approval (
e.g.,
select the monetary thresholds for awarding sales contracts).
(I) Adequately train SARs in regulatory requirements and limitations of authority. Ensure SARs are cognizant in identifying and referring matters relating to fraud, bribery, or criminal collusion to the proper authorities in accordance with 41CFR 102-38.50 and 102-38.225.
(J) Obtain approvals as necessary prior to award of the property (
e.g.,
an approval by the Attorney General of the United States to award property with a fair market value of $3 million
or more or if it involves a patent, process, technique, or invention) as specified in 41 CFR 102-38.325.
(K) Be accountable for the care, handling, and associated costs of the personal property prior to its removal by the buyer.
(L) Reconcile property and financial records to reflect the final disposition.
(M) Make the property available to FCAs when a bona fide need exists and when no like items are located elsewhere prior to transfer of title to the property, to the maximum extent practicable.
(N) Subject small quantities of low dollar value property in poor condition to the A/D Economy Formula (see Enclosure 3 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2). If there is no reasonable prospect of disposing of the property by sale (including a scrap sale), dispose of the property with the A/D processes.
(O) Ensure that the DoD IUID Registry is updated for DoD personal property items marked with a UII in accordance with § 273.6.
(ii)
Sales conducted by DLA Disposition Services.
As the major selling agency for the Department of Defense and an approved GSA Personal Property Sales Center, DLA Disposition Services must, in compliance with requirements in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section:
(A) Carefully consider all factors and determine the best method of sale for personal property utilizing identification, segregation, merchandising, advertising, bid evaluation, and award principles to protect the integrity of the sales process.
(B) Utilize any publicly accessible electronic media for providing information regarding upcoming sales, invitations for bid (including sales terms and conditions), acceptance of bids, and bid results.
(C) Provide direction to the DLA Disposition Services site through its internal operating procedures and automated systems.
(D) Verify that personal property items marked with a UII and offered for sale have been updated in the DoD IUID Registry.
(iii)
Authorized methods of sale
—(A)
General.
Sale of personal property is authorized in 41 CFR part 102-38 by the methods of sale identified in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section. (See § 273.12 for definitions.)
(
1
) Sealed bid.
(
2
) Spot bid.
(
3
) Auction.
(
4
) Negotiated sale. Criteria for negotiated sales include:
(
i
) The estimated fair market value is not in excess of $15,000 and the sale is considered to be in the best interest of the USG. Large quantities of materiel were not divided nor disposed through multiple sales in order to avoid these requirements.
(
ii
) For FEPP, the estimated fair market value is less than $250,000; sale is managed by DLA Disposition Services and authorized by DLA Disposition Services Director or designee.
(
iii
) Disposal is to a State, territory, possession, political subdivision thereof, or tax-supported agency therein, and the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtained by negotiation.
(
iv
) Bid prices after advertising are not reasonable and re-advertising would serve no useful purpose.
(
v
) Public exigency does not permit delay, such as that caused by the time required to advertise a sale (
e.g.,
disposal of perishable food or other property that may spoil or deteriorate rapidly).
(
vi
) The sale promotes public health, safety, or national security.
(
vii
) The sale is in the public interest in a national emergency declared by the President or Congress. This authority may be used only with specific lots of property or for categories determined by the GSA Administrator for a designated period but not more than 3 months.
(
viii
) Selling the property competitively (sealed bid) would have an adverse impact on the national economy, provided that the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal can be obtained by negotiation (
e.g.,
sale of large quantities of an agricultural product that impacts domestic markets).
(
ix
) The sale is otherwise authorized by 41 CFR chapter 102 or other law.
(
5
) Negotiated fixed price.
(
i
) The head of the selling agency or designee must determine and document that this method of sale serves the best interest of the government.
(
ii
) This type of sale must include appropriate terms and conditions; must be publicized consistent with the nature and value of the property involved; and be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.
(B)
Sales of surplus, foreign excess, and other categories of property.
Within the constraints of the FMR-authorized methods of sale in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
5
) of this section, the types of sales that may be conducted for surplus, foreign excess, and other categories of property sold in the DoD Defense Materiel Disposition Program are:
(
1
) One-time sales for disposal of property already generated. Actual deliveries may comprise several release transactions.
(
2
) Term sales for the disposal of property generated over a period of time and in quantities that can be reasonably estimated for a specific period of time or are offered with minimum and maximum quantity provisions.
(iv)
Negotiated sales reporting.
Negotiated sales reports are required by GSA within 60 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year. DoD Components include in the report a listing and description of all negotiated sales with an estimated fair market value in excess of $5,000. For each sale negotiated, the report must provide:
(A) A description of the property.
(B) The acquisition cost and date. If not known, an estimate of the acquisition cost, identified as such.
(C) The estimated fair market value, including the date of the estimate and name of the estimator.
(D) The name and address of purchaser.
(E) The date of sale.
(F) The gross and net sales proceeds.
(G) A justification for conducting the negotiated sale.
(v)
GSA or DoD-authorized retail method of sale.
Sales of small quantity, consumer-oriented property at negotiated, auction, or bid prices that are conducted on a first-come; first-served; and as-is, where-is basis are considered retail sales. Credit or debit cards are the only authorized payment methods. Property having a fair market value exceeding $15,000 is subject to the limitations applicable to negotiated sales of surplus personal property.
(A) Retail sales of surplus, FEPP, and abandoned privately owned property may be conducted whenever such a program can effectively and economically be used to supplement other methods of sale. Retail sales must be approved in writing at an agency level on a case-by-case basis, and the approval must specify the quantities and types of property and time period covered. These authorizations are limited to specific situations and types of property for which deviation can be fully justified. In addition:
(
1
) All items must undergo screening, as appropriate, before being offered for retail sale.
(
2
) Each item being sold must have a fair market value of less than $15,000.
(
3
) All property received as items, if offered for sale by retail, must be sold as items and not by weight or lot, with the exception of scrap authorized for retail sale.
(
4
) Prices established must reflect the estimated fair market value of the property and must be publicized to the extent consistent with the nature and value of the property.
(
5
) Retail sales are limited to the Federal Supply Classification Codes (FSCs), according to the DEMIL code assigned and GSA approval, which are in 41 CFR chapter 102.
(
6
) Property must be DEMIL Code A and have a DEMIL Integrity Code 1, 7, or 9.
(
7
) The retail selling price of the property, based on the condition, may not be set below the price it would bring from a commercial vendor.
(B) Approval in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 is required to sell scrap by the retail sale method.
(C) Only trained cashiers are authorized to collect and deposit proceeds received from a retail sale. Retail sales are open to the public and all USG personnel except:
(
1
) DoD military and civilian personnel and contractors and military and civilian personnel and contractors
of the USCG whose duties at the installation where the property is sold include any functional or supervisory responsibility for or within the DoD Materiel Disposition Program.
(
2
) An agent, employee, or immediate member of the household of personnel in paragraph (a)(4)(v)(C)(
1
) of this section.
(vi)
Market impact.
(A) DoD Components will give careful consideration to the adverse market impact that may result from the untimely sale of large quantities of certain surplus items. Where applicable, the selling agency or partner organizations consult with organizations associated with the commodity proposed for sale to obtain advice on the market impact.
(B) Property reporting and sale schedules are developed to ensure expeditious property disposal, maximum competition, maximum sale proceeds, good public relations, and uniform workload.
(C) The selling agency will provide advance notice of all proposed or scheduled competitive bid sales (except negotiated) of surplus usable property. This includes property:
(
1
) Located in the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(
2
) With a total acquisition cost of $250,000 or more per sale.
(
3
) With a minimum potential return of $5,000 per sale of scrap and recyclable material.
(5)
Advertising to promote free and open competition.
DoD Components will:
(i) Bring property offered for sale to the attention of the buying public by free publicity and paid advertising.
(ii) Make every effort to obtain maximum free publicity through sites such as a Government-wide point of entry,
https://www.fedbizopps.gov.
(iii) Employ the amount of paid advertising commensurate with the type and value of property being sold.
(iv) Distribute sale offerings to prospective purchasers before the first day of the inspection period.
(6)
Pre-sale activities
—(i)
Preparation and distribution of sale offerings
—(A) Include in the offer to sell sale date and time, method of sale, description of the property being offered, selling agency, location of property, time and place for receipt of bids, acceptable forms of bid deposits and payments, and general and special terms and conditions of sale. DLA Disposition Services sale offerings are available on the DLA Disposition Services Web site (
www.dispositionservices.dla.mil
).
(B) Establish a sales offering file that contains information about the property offered for sale from initiation to bid opening (
e.g.,
sale catalog, withdrawals prior to bid opening, agreements with holding activities).
(C) Prepare sale offerings to provide prospective purchasers with general information and instructions.
(D) Include in each offering the specific conditions of sale, the contents of which are determined by the selling agency. The SF 114 series may be used to document the terms and conditions of a sale, but their use is not mandatory. Conditions of sale include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Inspection results.
(
2
) Condition and location of property.
(
3
) Eligibility of bidders.
(
4
) Consideration of bids.
(
5
) Bid deposits and payments.
(
6
) Submission of bids.
(
7
) Bid price determination.
(
8
) Legal title of ownership.
(
9
) Delivery, loading, and removal of property.
(
10
) Default, returns, or refunds.
(
11
) Modifications, withdrawals, or late bids.
(
12
) Requirements to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
(
13
) Certificate of independent price determination.
(
14
) Covenant against contingent fees.
(
15
) Limitation of government liability.
(
16
) Award of contract.
(E) DEMIL-required MLI property may not be sold unless DEMIL has been accomplished or it is offered for sale with DEMIL as a condition of sale. Incorporate the method and degree of DEMIL into the sales offering.
(
1
) If DEMIL is a condition of sale, the sales offering must include a condition of sale stipulating that title of the
property will not pass from the government to the purchaser until the property has been satisfactorily DEMIL and has been certified and verified in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.
(
2
) The sales offering must also include a requirement for the bidder to provide an EUC to the selling agency specifying the intended use and disposition of the property. The sales offering will also include an agreement by the buyer that they will obtain appropriate export authorizations from the Departments of Commerce or State prior to any export of the item. DLA Disposition Services uses DLA Form 1822, “End-Use Certificate.” The EUC must be processed through designated approval channels prior to award of the property to the prospective customer.
(
3
) The EUC for scrap mutilation residue must be incorporated into the sales offering for all MLI and CCL items property, including mutilation residue that may still be classified as DEMIL Code B or Q.
(ii)
Inspections.
Each sales offering will include an electronic or physical inspection period of at least 7 calendar days before the bid opening.
(iii)
Bid deposits.
The selling agency may incorporate a requirement for bidders to provide or post a bid deposit or a bid deposit bond in lieu of cash or other acceptable forms of deposit to protect the government's interest.
(iv)
PM bid deposits.
PM offerings will include a 20 percent bid deposit. A deposit bond may be used in lieu of cash or other acceptable form of deposit when permitted by the sales offering. If awarded, the bid deposit will be applied to the total contract price. Unsuccessful bid deposits will be returned. Bid deposit bonds will be returned to the bidder when no longer needed to secure the property.
(v)
Payments.
(A) Selling agencies will implement a payment policy, pursuant to 41 CFR chapter 102 that protects the government against fraud.
(B) Acceptable forms of payment include but are not limited to:
(
1
) Guaranteed negotiable instruments made payable to or endorsed to the U.S. Treasury in any form (
e.g.,
cashier's check, certified check, traveler's check, bank draft, or postal or telegraphic money order).
(
2
) Canadian postal money orders designed for payment in the United States must state specifically that they are payable in U.S. dollars in the United States.
(
3
) Electronic funds transfer. Special instructions are available through the DLA Disposition Services Web site and must be followed if this option is chosen.
(
4
) Credit or debit cards.
(
5
) Combinations of payment methods in paragraphs (a)(6)(v)(B)(
1
) through (
5
) of this section.
(
6
) Other acceptable forms of payment include:
(
i
) Uncertified personal or company check for amounts over $25.00 accompanied by an irrevocable commercial letter of credit issued by a U.S. bank, payable to the Treasurer of the United States or to the selling agency. The check may not exceed the amount of the letter of credit. Each letter of credit must be an original or clearly state on its face that reproductions of the original document may be considered as an original document, and clearly state that requests for payment will be honored at any time they are presented by the selling agency. Selling agents will reject letters of credit with an expiration date. In addition, the minimum criteria required for acceptance of letters of credit are to state clearly that it is a commercial letter of credit (it need not say it is irrevocable, but it cannot say it is revocable); be on bank stationery; state the maximum amount guaranteed; state the name and address of the company or individual submitting the bid; state the sales offering number and opening date; and be signed by the issuer (authorized signature of bank official).
(
ii
) Uncertified personal or company checks in the amount of $25.00 or less when submitted for ancillary charges (
e.g.,
debt payment, storage charge, liquidated damages, interest).
(
iii
) Any form of payment received from a NAF instrumentality or a State or local government.
(
7
) Acceptable country currencies and information on exchange rates used must be provided in the sales offering
and be incorporated into the sales offering. Generally, the exchange rate for receipt of monies or payments in designated currencies is established on the date of the deposit, which is generally the date of receipt.
(
8
) FEPP buyers must pay in U.S. dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency that is readily convertible into U.S. dollars. Where U.S. dollars are not available, the acceptance of foreign currency is authorized subject to these conditions:
(
i
) Payments exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 U.S. in individual sale transactions (that is, for the total of all items offered in a single sale, not for individual items included in a sale) may be accepted only after obtaining prior approval from the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). When required, DFAS will submit the requests through the chain of command to DoS and Department of Treasury for approval. In countries where a considerable amount of FEPP may be available for sale and it may be necessary to accept foreign currency, the selling agency will request from DFAS an annual authorization, on a calendar year basis, to accept foreign currency.
(
ii
) Payments of up to the equivalent of $5,000 U.S. for individual transactions, at the rate of exchange applicable to the USG, may be accepted without further consultation if assurance has been obtained through the local DoS representative that such currency may be used in payment of any or all USG expenditures in the country whose currency is accepted. This provision is applicable only when annual authorizations have not been received; it is not feasible to sell for U.S. dollars or to ship the property to a country (other than the United States, except where property is a type authorized for return) where it may be sold for U.S. dollars or a freely convertible foreign currency; the currency is not that of a country whose assets in the United States are blocked by Department of Treasury regulations; the currency is that of a country with which the United States maintains diplomatic relations; and foreign currency accepted need not be the currency of the country of sale if the currency offered is otherwise acceptable to DoS and Department of Treasury and can be accepted pursuant to U.S. and host government agreements governing the sale of FEPP. In this connection, the sales offerings will indicate the foreign currencies that will be accepted for a particular sale.
(vi)
Transfer of title.
Selling agencies must document the transfer of title of the property from the government to the purchaser:
(A) By providing to the purchaser a bill of sale.
(B) By notification within a contract clause stipulating when the transfer is affected. For instance:
(
1
) Upon removal from the exact location specified in the sales offering.
(
2
) Upon certification and signature by the government that all required demilitarization has been accomplished in accordance with DoD Instruction 4160.28.
(C) By providing certifications required from the buyer prior to a transfer of title. An SF 97, “Certificate of Release of a Motor Vehicle,” (available at
http://www.gsa.gov/forms
) is required for the sale of vehicles. Selling agencies must provide internal guidance on how the transfer will occur and what documentation is required.
(vii)
Defaults.
If a purchaser breaches a contract by failure to make payment within the time allowed or by failure to remove the property as required, or breaches other contractual provisions, the purchaser is in default. The selling agency representative will give the purchaser a written notice of default and a period of time to cure the default.
(A) If the purchaser fails to cure the default, the selling agency is entitled to collect or retain liquidated damages as specified in the sales offer or contract.
(B) If a bid deposit was required and the bidder secured the deposit with a deposit bond, the selling agency must issue the notice of default to the bidder and the surety company.
(viii)
Disputes.
All sales offers will include the disputes clause contained in 48 CFR 52.233-1 of the FAR.
(7)
Bidder eligibility criteria.
(i) As a rule, selling agencies may accept bids from any person, representative, or
agent from any entity. To be considered eligible for award of a sales contract, the bidder must be of legal age and not be debarred, suspended, or indebted to the USG, or from a restricted party. Any exceptions must be authorized by the selling agency head, who has determined that there is a compelling reason to make the award. A list of parties excluded from federal procurement and non-procurement programs can be obtained on the GSA Excluded Parties List System Web site at
http://epls.gov
or the OSD DEMIL Web site at
https://demil.osd.mil/.
(ii) Personal property may be sold to a federal employee whose agency does not prohibit the employees from purchasing such property. Unless allowed by a federal or agency regulation, employees having non-public information regarding property offered for sale may not participate in that sale. This applies to an immediate member of the employee's household.
(8)
Suspension and debarment of bidders.
(i) 41 CFR 102-38.170, 31 U.S.C. 6101 note, Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (February 18, 1986), and Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (August 16, 1989) provide the authority for the suspension or debarment of bidders or contractors purchasing personal property from the government. The selling agent must follow the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 of the FAR to debar or suspend a person or entity from the purchase of personal property. The debarring official for DLA Disposition Services sales is the DLA Special Assistant for Contracting Integrity.
(ii) Appointed SARs and SCOs will:
(A) Prepare recommendations for suspension or debarment from the sale of Federal property and acquisition contracts.
(B) Forward them to their respective servicing legal offices.
(C) Prepare reports recommending suspension or debarment using the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, in all cases where purchasers are recommended for suspension or debarment.
(iii) In addition to applicable guidance in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 and 48 CFR 45.602-1, 52.233-1, and 14.407 of the FAR and 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, contractors who are suspended, debarred, or proposed for debarment are also excluded from conducting business with the government as agents or representatives of another contractor. Firms or individuals who submit bids on sale solicitations on behalf of suspended or debarred contractors, or who in any other manner conduct business with the government as agents or representatives of suspended or debarred contractors, may be treated as affiliates as described in 48 CFR 9.403 of the FAR, and may be suspended or debarred.
(iv) Parties who violate trade security control (TSC) policies may be recommended for debarment or suspension.
(9)
Indebted bidders and purchasers.
(i) No awards may be made to bidders indebted to the government. Selling agencies will coordinate with DFAS to determine if a bidder is indebted to DoD and maintain local listings containing bidder name, address, sales contract information, amount of indebtedness, and date indebted.
(ii) Circumstances where the SAR or SCO must initiate action include:
(A) At bid opening. Bidders can bid if they cure the debt prior to the opening.
(B) As the result of monies owed the contractor as a refund.
(C) As a result of monies received for bid deposit.
(D) As a result of failure to make payment for overages, ancillary charges, etc.
(E) As a result of affiliation with suspended bidder.
(iii) Checks received for debts will be deposited immediately and the bidder will not be notified until the check has cleared its bank. Cash or negotiable instruments will be deposited immediately.
(iv) SARs or SCOs will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have been deposited to offset the specific indebtedness.
(v) If a SAR or SCO suspects affiliation, the SAR or SCO will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have
been deposited according to the procedures in 31 U.S.C. 3711-3720E for the collection of debts owed to the United States.
(10)
Bid evaluation
—(i)
Responsive bids and responsible bidders.
(A) Only responsive bids (as defined in the § 273.12) may be considered for award.
(B) Bidders do not have to use authorized bid forms. The bid may be considered when the bidder agrees to all of the terms and conditions and acknowledges that the offer may result in a binding contract award.
(C) The selling agency must determine that the bidder is a responsible person or represents a responsible entity.
(ii)
Late bids.
The selling agency will consider late bids for award if the bid was delivered in a timely fashion to the address specified in the sales offering but did not reach the official designated to accept the bid by the bid opening time due to a government delay.
(iii)
Bid modification or withdrawal.
(A) A bidder may modify or withdraw its bid prior to the start of the bid opening. After the start of the sale, the bidder will not be allowed to modify or withdraw its bid.
(B) The selling agency representative may consider late bid modifications to an otherwise successful bid at any time, but only when it makes the terms of the bid more favorable to the government.
(iv)
Mistakes in bids prior to award.
(A) The administrative procedures for handling mistakes in bids (prior to or after award) are contained in 41 CFR 102-38.260, which utilizes the processes of 48 CFR 14.407 of the FAR for federal property sales.
(B) The selling agency head or designee may delegate the authority to make administrative decisions regarding mistakes in bid to a central authority or alternate. This delegation may not be re-delegated by the authority or alternate.
(C) A signed copy of the administrative determination must be included in the contract file and provided to the Government Accountability Office, when requested.
(v)
Bid rejections.
In the event a bid is rejected, the next most advantageous bid may be considered. If an entire sales offering is rejected, all items within that sale may be reoffered on another sale.
(vi)
Identical bids.
If there are multiple high bids of the same amount, the SAR or SCO must consider other factors of the sale (
e.g.,
payment arrangements, estimated removal time) that would make one offer more advantageous to the government. Otherwise, the SAR or SCO may use random tie breakers to avoid expense of reselling or reoffering the property.
(vii)
Suspected collusion.
The SAR or SCO must refer any suspicion of collusion to the agency's Office of the Inspector General or the Department of Justice (DOJ) through its legal counsel.
(viii)
Protests.
Protests by bidders regarding validity of determinations made on the sale of personal property may be submitted to the DLA Disposition Services Comptroller General or comptroller general for the selling agent.
(11)
Awarding sales contracts
—(i)
Selling agents.
SARs or SCOs will:
(A) Be appointed by agency heads or their designees to act as selling agents for the USG.
(B) Enter into and administer contracts for the sale of government property pursuant to the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 101
et seq.
and other applicable statutes and regulations.
(C) Award and distribute contracts to responsible bidders whose bids conform to the sales offering and are the most advantageous to the government.
(D) Be authorized to reject bids in accordance with paragraph (a)(10)(v) of this section.
(E) Sign under the title of “Sales Agency Representative” or “Sales Contracting Officer.”
(F) Sign all contracting documentation on behalf of the USG.
(G) Be responsible for the proper distribution of sales proceeds.
(ii)
Approvals required for sales and awards.
(A) Selling agencies will designate the dollar limitations of authority of their appointed SARs or SCOs. DLA Disposition Services SCOs may make awards of contracts on sales of usable property having a fair market value of less than $100,000. Except for
antitrust advice limitations, awards of scrap property do not require approval by higher authority.
(B) Selling agencies will notify the U.S. Attorney General whenever an award is proposed for personal property with an estimated fair market value of $3 million or more or if the sale involves a patent, process, technique, or invention per 41 CFR 102-38.325. Selling agencies will otherwise comply with all requirements of 41 CFR chapter 102 including but not limited to the prohibition to dispose any such item until confirmation from the U.S. Attorney General that the proposed transaction would not violate antitrust laws.
(C) The head of a selling agency or designee must approve all negotiated sales of personal property. Selling agencies must submit explanatory statements for each sale by negotiation of any personal property with an estimated fair market value in excess of $15,000 through GSA to the House and Senate Oversight Committee to obtain approval for the sale in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 549.
(iii)
Processing mistakes in bid after award, claims, disputes, and appeals.
Keeping the interests of the government in the forefront, SARs or SCOs will process these actions expeditiously and fairly, in accordance with established internal and external regulations and laws. SARs or SCOs will respond to each issue pertaining to mistakes in bids, claims, disputes, or appeals until it is resolved and provide a written final decision to the claimant or adjudicating agency, as appropriate, until the issue is closed. Retain any decisions made or actions taken in regard to these issues as official records, as required by agency or higher authority directives.
(12)
Notification process for dissemination of awards information.
(i) The selling agency may only disclose bid results after the award of any item or lot of property has been made. No information other than names may be disclosed regarding the bidder(s).
(ii) Bids are disclosed as they are submitted on spot bids or auctions.
(13)
Contract administration.
Selling agencies will prescribe contract administration procedures for the various methods of sale, to include procedures for:
(i) Disseminating award information.
(ii) Billing.
(iii) Default and liquidation.
(iv) Establishing contract folders, including file maintenance and disposition.
(A) Contract administration files will consist of a sale folder, financial folder, individual contract folder(s), and an unsuccessful bids folder for each sale.
(B) Selling agencies will develop procedures for maintaining, completing, reviewing, and auditing these files. All pertinent documentation, including EUC, licenses, pre-award reviews, etc., must be included in the files.
(C) Documentation found in these files may be subject to 5 U.S.C. 552, also known as the Freedom of Information Act. All Privacy Act, privileged, exempt, classified, For Official Use Only, or sensitive information must be obliterated prior to release to the public.
(v) Collection and distribution of sales proceeds.
(vi) Ensuring all requirements of the contract (
e.g.,
non-payment, required licenses) are met prior to releasing the property.
(vii) Making modifications to contracts resulting from changes to the original contract.
(viii) Handling public requests for information.
(ix) Timely review and closure of each contract.
(x) Timely review and closure of each sale.
(14)
Cashier functions and SAR or SCO responsibilities.
(i) Cashiers must be duly trained in the handling and processing of monies collected as payment on sales.
(ii) Cashiers must credit sales proceeds in accordance with chapter 5 of Volume 11A of DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs)” (available at
http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/current/11a/11a_05.pdf
).
(15)
Inquiries regarding suspended or debarred bidders.
Refer all inquiries regarding suspended or debarred bidders to the office effecting the action.
(16)
Release requirements following sales.
(i) Removal of property is subject
to general and special conditions of sale and the loading table as set forth in the sale offering and resulting contract.
(ii) Prior to releasing sold property, assigned personnel will:
(A) Verify the sale items to be delivered or shipped to purchasers against the sale documents to prevent theft, fraud, or inappropriate release of property.
(B) When DLA Disposition Services is managing the sale and where an in-place receipt memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been executed, installation commanders will provide, by letter designation and upon request from DLA Disposition Services site, the names, telephone numbers, and titles of those non-DLA Disposition Services site personnel authorized to release property located at their activities. As changes occur, installation commanders will provide additions, deletions, and revisions in writing to DLA Disposition Services.
(C) Weigh property sold by weight at the time of delivery to the purchaser.
(D) Count or measure property sold by unit at the time of delivery.
(iii) Purchasers are required to pay, before delivery, the purchase price of item(s) to be removed, based upon the quantity or weight as set forth in the sale offering, except for term sales. If prepayment of an overage quantity is not practicable or possible, payment will be due upon issuance of a statement of account after release of property. Sales of property to State and local governments do not require payment prior to removal. The DLA Disposition Services contract with its sales partners does not require payment prior to delivery of property to State and local governments only.
(17)
Withdrawal from sale.
(i) Property that has been physically inspected, determined to be usable or needed, and thereby has survived screening is eligible for sale and may be requested to satisfy valid requirements within limitations specified in this paragraph. Generally, property past the screening cycle may not be withdrawn from sale. However, circumstances may require the withdrawal of property from sale to satisfy valid needs within the Department of Defense or FCAs. Donation recipients are not eligible to withdraw property from the sale unless they can provide DLA Disposition Services with documentation that an error was made by DLA Disposition Services and they should have been issued the property or the property was never available for electronic screening in GSA personal property database GSAXcess®.
(ii) In many instances, the property remains at a DLA Disposition Services site after the title has been transferred. This property is ineligible for withdrawal to satisfy DoD needs. If the DoD Component intends to pursue purchasing the property from the commercial partner, transactions must be handled between the partner and the DoD Component without intervention from the DLA Disposition Services.
(iii) Pursuant to 41 CFR chapter 102, due to the potential for adverse public relations, every effort will be made to keep withdrawals from sales to a minimum. These efforts will include searching for assets elsewhere in the disposal process. Exceptions to this policy will be implemented only when all efforts to otherwise satisfy a valid need have been exhausted and the withdrawal action is determined to be cost effective and in the best interest of the government. DoD Component heads will ensure that withdrawal authority is stringently controlled and applied.
(iv) Make requests to the selling agency by the most expeditious means. With the exception of ICP or IMM and NMCS orders, requests will provide full justification including a statement that the property is needed to satisfy a valid requirement.
(v) Withdrawals may not be processed subject to property inspection for acceptability. Inspect property before requesting withdrawal.
(vi) Orders submitted by ICPs or IMMs do not require justification statements before award.
(vii) With the exception of ICPs and IMMs, minimum written information required in the package for withdrawal requests includes:
(A) Detailed justification as to why the property is required, including how the property will be used; such as applicability of materiel to active weapons systems.
(B) Mission impact statement from a support, procurement, and funding standpoint if property is not withdrawn from sale (
e.g.,
the effect on operational readiness requirements within a specified period of time).
(C) A summary of efforts made to find assets meeting the requirement from other sources, including consideration of substitute items.
(viii) When the DLA Office of Investigations, TSC Assessment Office, determines that property was incorrectly described, and that TSC or DEMIL requirements are applicable, property will either be withdrawn or a provision made to accomplish TSC or DEMIL, as appropriate. The TSC Assessment Office may request withdrawal of property and suspend further action regarding the property until the matter is resolved in accordance with the procedures in DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(ix) As property moves through the sales cycle, constraints are placed on requests for withdrawals from sale.
(A) The area manager can approve requests for withdrawal during the period between the end of screening and the date the property is referred to DLA Disposition Services for sale cataloging or until a delivery order is signed by the commercial venture partner. The area manager can also approve withdrawals prior to bid opening for items on authorized local sales.
(B) DLA Disposition Services can approve withdrawal requests from date of referral until the property is awarded. DLA Disposition Services can also return requests for withdrawal after award that do not include the required written information.
(x) DLA approval, with DLA legal concurrence, is required on any withdrawal request after the award but before removal.
(xi) When title has passed to the purchaser, the requestor must work directly with the purchaser. This includes commercial venture property. The SAR or SCO will provide contract information when requested.
(18)
Reporting requirement.
(i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2583, the Secretary of Defense will prepare an annual report identifying each public sale conducted (including property offered for sale and property awarded) by a DoD Component of military items that are controlled on the U.S. Munitions List pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 121 and assigned a DEMIL Code of B in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. For each sale, the report will specify:
(A) The date of the sale.
(B) The DoD Component conducting the sale.
(C) The manner in which the sale was conducted (method of sale).
(D) Description of the military items that were sold or offered for sale.
(E) The purchaser of each item, if awarded.
(F) The stated end-use of each item sold.
(ii) The report is submitted not later than March 31 of each year. The Secretary of Defense is required to submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate the report required by this section for the preceding fiscal year. DLA Disposition Services includes shipments made during the reporting period to its business partner.
(19)
Special program sales
—(i)
Resource recovery and recycling program.
(A) All DoD installations worldwide will have recycling programs as required by DoD Instruction 4715.4 with goals for recycling as outlined in Executive Order 13514.
(
1
) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2577 and 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the DFARS, each installation worldwide will have or be associated with a QRP or recycling program available to the installation to appropriately dispose of all recyclable materials for all activities. This includes all DoD facilities not on a military installation, tenant, leased, and government owned-contractor operated (GOCO) space.
(
2
) Installations having several recycling programs will incorporate them into the single installation QRP if possible, however a separate recycling program may be established to appropriately dispose of recyclable materials that cannot be recycled through the QRP.
(
3
) Each DoD Component will designate a coordinator for each QRP and ensure the GOCO facilities participate in QRP.
(B) Recyclable material includes material diverted from the solid waste stream and the beneficial use of such material. It may be beneficial to use waste material as a substitute for a virgin material in a manufacturing process, as a fuel, or as a secondary material. Examples of material that can be recycled through QRP are provided in Table 1 of this section and those that cannot be recycled through QRP are provided in Table 2 of this section, both from the complete list in DoD Instruction 4715.4.
(C) Continually review each QRP to identify material appropriate for waste stream diversion, explore recycling methods, and identify potential markets. Additional recyclable material includes not only material generating profit, but material whose diversion from the waste stream generate a savings to the Department of Defense in disposal costs, or when diversion is required by State or local law or regulation. Material generated from nonappropriated or personal funds (
e.g.,
post consumer wastes from installation housing, and installation concessions) may be included.
Table 1—Examples of Material That Can Be Recycled Through QRP
EXAMPLES OF MATERIAL THAT CAN BE RECYCLED THROUGH QRP
1
Typical recyclable material found in the municipal solid waste stream (glass, plastic, aluminum, newspaper, cardboard, etc.).
2
Scrap metal from non-defense working capital fund activities.
3
Expended small arms cartridge cases that are 50-caliber (12.7 mm) and smaller not suitable for reloading that have been mutilated or otherwise rendered unusable and gleanings made unusable for military firing e.g., crushed, shredded, annealed, or otherwise rendered unusable as originally intended prior to recycling in accordance with DoD Instruction 4715.4, except overseas.
4
Storage and beverage containers (metal, glass, and plastic).
5
Office paper (high-quality, bond, computer, mixed, telephone books, and
Federal Registers
).
6
Commissary store cardboard and exchange store wastes (cardboard), if the commissary or exchange chooses to use the QRP.
7
Scrap wood and unusable pallets.
8
Rags and textile wastes that have not been contaminated with hazardous material or HW.
9
Automotive and light truck-type tires.
10
Used motor oil.
11
Food wastes from dining facilities.
12
Office-type furniture that is broken or too costly to repair.
13
Donated privately owned personal property.
Table 2—Examples of Material That Cannot Be Recycled Through QRP
EXAMPLES OF MATERIAL THAT CANNOT BE RECYCLED THROUGH QRP
1
PM-bearing scrap.
2
Scrap metal generated from a defense working capital fund activity.
3
Items, such as MLI indicated in item 10 of this table, that must be demilitarized (DEMIL) at any time during their life cycle, except for small arms and light weapons brass and gleanings as described in item 3 of Table 1.
4
Hazardous materials and waste.
5
Material that can be reused by the government for their original purpose without special processing. These items may or may not be MLI or CCL items.
6
Repairable items (e.g., used vehicles, vehicle or machine parts).
7
Unopened containers of oil, paints, or solvents.
8
Fuels (uncontaminated and contaminated).
9
MLI or CCL items (Only DEMIL Code A items may be candidates for recycling.).
10
Printed circuit boards containing hazardous materials.
11
Items required to be mutilated prior to sale or release to the public.
12
Ammunition cans, unless certified as MPPEH Designated as Safe in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 and DoDI 4140.62.
13
Usable pallets, unless DLA Disposition Services states otherwise.
14
Electrical and electronic components (These may be MLI or CCL items eligible only for Electronics Demanufacturing and DEMIL or mutilation.).
(D) Installation commanders authorized by their DoD Component head, as appropriate, may sell directly recyclable and other QRP materials, or consign them to the DLA Disposition Services for sale. If selling directly, installations will:
(
1
) Maintain operational records for annual reporting requirements, review, and program evaluation purposes.
(
2
) Manage processes, reports, and proceeds distribution in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102 and DoD 7000.14-R.
(E) Excluded material is identified in Attachment 2 to DoD Instruction 4715.4, which provides a guide of eligible and ineligible materials.
(F) Although scrap recyclable materials do not require formal screening, those purchased with appropriated funds, as surplus property under the FPMR and FMR, are available to meet RTD requirements.
(G) When sold directly by the installation, use proceeds to reimburse the installation level costs incurred in operating the recycling program. After reimbursement of the costs incurred by the installation for operations (
e.g.,
operation and maintenance and overhead), installation commanders may use the remaining proceeds as authorized by DoD Instruction 4715.4.
(ii)
Commercial Space Launch Act (CSLA).
(A) The purpose of the CSLA, 51 U.S.C. Chapter 509, is to promote economic growth and entrepreneurial activity through the utilization of the space environment for peaceful purposes; encourage the private sector to provide launch vehicles and associated launch services; and to facilitate and encourage the acquisition (sale, lease, transaction in lieu of sale, or otherwise) by the private sector of launch property of the United States that is excess or otherwise not needed for public use, in consultation with Secretary of Transportation. Donation screening is not required prior to sale.
(B) The DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) has the primary responsibility for coordinating DoD issues or views with the Department of Treasury, other Executive department organizations, and the Congress on matters arising from private sector commercial space activities, particularly the operations of commercial ELVs and national security interests.
(C) The DLA Disposition Services is the primary office to conduct CSLA sales following the direction for pricing and disposition as specified in DoD Directive 3230.3 Sales will be by competitive bid to U.S. firms or persons having demonstrated action toward becoming a commercial launch provider. The DoD CIO and the Secretary of the U.S. Air Force (USAF) designated representative will support DLA Disposition Services, as necessary, in the sale or transfer of excess and surplus personal property to the private sector, including the identification of potential bidders and any special sales terms and conditions. The generating activity will assist, as necessary, in completing sales transactions.
(b)
Security assistance or FMS
—(1)
Statutory authority.
Authority for security assistance is provided primarily under 22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
(also known as the Arms Export Control Act) and annual appropriation acts for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs.
(2)
Security assistance program requirements.
(i) Security assistance transfers are authorized under the premise that if these transfers are essential to the security and economic well-being of friendly governments and international organizations, they are equally vital to the security and economic well-being of the United States. Security assistance programs support U.S. national security and foreign policy objectives.
(ii) In coordination and cooperation with DOS, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) directs, administers, and provides overall procedural guidance for the execution of security cooperation and additional DoD programs in support of U.S. national
security and foreign policy objectives; and promotes stable security relationships with friends and allies through military assistance, in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M.
(3)
Foreign purchased property.
Disposal initiatives and actions will be in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M or guidance provided by security assistance implementing agencies on a case-by-case basis.
(4)
FMS disposal process summary
—(i)
Defense disposal services.
(A) FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property may be made available to foreign countries and international organizations designated as eligible to purchase property or services in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2151, 2321b, 2321j, 2443, 2751, and 2778
et seq.
Such defense articles may be made available for sale under the FMS Program. Transactions under this authority are reimbursable.
(B) FMS transactions are completed by use of letters of offer and acceptance and the procedures specified in DoD 5105.38-M.
(ii)
Grant transfer of excess defense articles (EDAs).
22 U.S.C. 2321j authorizes the U.S. Government to grant transfer of EDA to eligible foreign governments. For a transfer under this authority, DoD funds may not be used for packing, crating, handling, and transportation except under certain circumstances consistent with the guidance in 22 U.S.C. 2321j(e).
(iii)
FMS transportation.
(A) As a general rule, FMS customers are responsible for all transportation costs.
(
1
) The transportation costs can be written into the letters of agreement or the items can be shipped on a collect commercial basis. The implementing DoD Component or DLA Disposition Services will identify exceptions to this rule.
(
2
) Sensitive and some other FMS shipments may be made via the Defense Transportation System (DTS).
(
i
) Sensitive shipments not going through the DTS must be routed through a DoD-controlled port (Delivery Term Codes 8, B, or C). See Appendix E, paragraph H.1, Part II of the Defense Transportation Regulations 4500.9-R, “Defense Transportation Regulations”, current edition (available at
http://www.transcom.mil/dtr/part-ii/dtr_part_ii_app_e.pdf
).
(
ii
) For these shipments, the implementing agency will provide separate instructions and funds citations. Transportation arrangements may be made by the supporting Transportation Office or DLA Disposition Services.
(B) Unless otherwise directed by the implementing agency or DLA Disposition Services FMS Office:
(
1
) Send small items collect via Federal Express or other parcel service to designated freight forwarder.
(
2
) Send less than truckload shipments collect via common carrier to designated freight forwarder.
(
3
) Prepare and send DD Form 1348-5, “Notice of Availability/Shipment,” for larger than truckload shipments to freight forwarder or other designated address. Upon receipt of DD Form 1348-5, the recipient will provide shipping instructions or advise of pick-up date. If shipping instructions are not received within 15 days after DD Form 1348-5 is issued, follow up with freight forwarder and notify DLA Disposition Services if they are the implementing agency.
(
4
) For sensitive Delivery Term Code 8 property, in accordance with Part II of the Defense Transportation Regulation 4500.9-R, and hazardous material property, the supporting transportation office must ensure that the property is released in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. The preferred option is to let the supporting transportation office accomplish notice of availability and property shipment processes.
(
5
) On rare occasions, property may be transferred on a no-fee basis. The implementing agency or DLA Disposition Services will provide appropriate instructions on a case-by-case basis.
(C) In accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2403, construction equipment, including but not limited to tractors, scrapers, loaders, graders, bulldozers, dump trucks, generators, and compressors are not considered EDA for purposes of this section.
(iv)
FMS eligibility.
Eligibility for FMS is listed in Table C4.T2 of DoD 5105.38-M. Eligibility to receive excess property as a grant pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 2151, 2321, 2751, 2778
et seq.
is established by the DOS and provided to DSCA. DoD Components will follow the latest guidance from DSCA showing which countries are eligible under the various authorities.
(v)
Controlled assets.
(A) Foreign countries and international organizations may screen and request DLA Disposition Services assets during DLA Disposition Services reutilization screening periods.
(B) 10 U.S.C. 2562 prohibits the sale or transfer of fire equipment to foreign countries and international organizations until RTD has been accomplished. Fire equipment remaining after these periods may be made available to security assistance customers with a certification to DSCA that the property is not defective and has completed all required excess property processes.
(C) DSCA will provide guidance for the transfer of items.
(D) Pricing of FMS is governed by DoD 7000.14-R.
(c)
Reutilization or transfer, excess screening, and issue (includes donation of DLA Disposition Services assets)
—(1)
Authority and scope.
(i) The provisions of this section are based on the guidelines of 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.
(ii) The scope of this section includes the RTD screening, ordering, issuing, and shipment of DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.
(A) These procedures apply to the Military Departments, FCAs, donees, eligible foreign governments and international agencies, and any other activities authorized to screen and order FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.
(B) See § 273.8 for additional guidance on the DoD HAP, LEAs, DoD or Service museums, National Guard units, Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) units, morale, welfare, recreational activities (MWRAs), the MARS, Civil Air Patrol (CAP), and DoD contractors.
(C) See § 273.8 and paragraph (b) of this section for additional information on foreign governments and international organizations.
(2)
General.
(i) DoD policy, in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102, is to reutilize DoD excess property and FEPP to the maximum extent feasible to fill existing needs before initiating new procurement or repair. All DoD activities will shop for available excess assets and review referrals for assets to satisfy valid needs. DLA Disposition Services provide asset referrals via front end screening to ICPs daily. See individual Military Department guidance regarding eligibility and authority to withdraw excess property from DLA Disposition Services.
(ii) Customers can electronically request specific NSNs for orders, whether DLA Disposition Services assets are available at the time the need arises. When an asset becomes available in the DLA Disposition Services inventory, an electronic notification will be sent to the customer for initiating an official order. See paragraph (c)(3)(vii) of this section for procedures on the automated want lists.
(iii) The UII mark, if applicable, will not be removed from a personal property item offered for RTD.
(3)
Screening for personal property
—(i)
Screening.
(A) DoD reutilization is accomplished electronically via MILSTRIP and DLA Transaction Services, through the DLA Disposition Services Web site.
(B) At the end of the DoD exclusive internal screening cycle, DoD excess property (excluding FEPP, scrap and HW) is transmitted to the GSAXcess®, and GSA assumes control of federal agency transfer and donation screening. The property remains in DLA Disposition Services accounts and can be viewed on their Web site.
(C) GSA federal screening is accomplished through the GSAXcess® platform that is a customer interface to the Federal Disposal System (FEDS). DoD personnel may shop in GSAXcess® at any time and search and select property from DoD and other FCAs. Transportation costs for other FCA property are borne by the DoD screener. DLA Disposition Services makes shipping arrangements for DoD orders in GSAXcess® and includes the transportation costs in the cost of the item.
(D) Enclosure 7 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 and Enclosure 3 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 provides additional information on screening for excess personal property by category.
(E) All references to days are calendar days unless otherwise specified.
(F) With electronic screening, physical tagging of property at a DLA Disposition Services site to place a “hold” until an order has been submitted is no longer authorized.
(G) DLA Disposition Services provides reasonable access to authorized personnel for inspection and removal of excess personal property.
(ii)
CONUS screening timeline for excess personal property
—(A)
Accumulation period.
DLA Disposition Services accumulates property throughout the week as it is inspected and added to the inventory system. As property is added to the inventory system, it is visible for ordering by DoD customers only. This accumulation period ends each Friday, prior to the start of the official 42 day screening timeline.
(B)
DoD and Special Programs screening Cycle (14 days).
DoD and the Special Programs identified in § 273.8 have exclusive ordering authority during the first 14 days of the screening timeline. DoD reutilization requirements have priority during this cycle, and property will not be issued to Special Programs until the end of this cycle.
(C)
FCA and donees screening cycle (21 days).
FCAs and GSA-authorized donees screen property in GSAXcess® during the following 21 days. FCA requirements have priority during this cycle, and property will not be issued to donees until the end of this cycle. During this cycle, DoD will search and select property in GSAXcess® rather than submit MILSTRIP orders, with the exception of priority designator (PD) 01-03 and NMCS requisitions. DoD customers will submit PD 01-03 and NMCS requisitions to DLA Disposition Services, who will immediately fill these orders and notify GSA to make the record adjustment in GSAXcess®.
(D)
GSA allocation to donees (5 days).
The following 5 days are set aside for GSA to allocate assets to fill donee requests. During this allocation period, no GSAXcess® ordering can be made.
(E)
Final reutilization/transfer/donation (RTD2) screening (2 days).
The final 2 days of screening are available to all RTD customers for any remaining property on a first come, first served basis.
(F) Table 3 of this section summarizes the priority of issue and the timelines associated with screening and issue of property.
Table 3—Summary of Screening and Issue Timelines in Order of Issue Priority
RTD Method
Eligibility
Screening period
Issuing period
Reutilization
DoD
Days 1-14
Days 1-42.
Reutilization
Special Programs
Days 1-14
Days 15-42.
Transfer
All Federal Agencies
Days 15-35
Days 15-42.
Donation
Authorized GSA Donees
Days 15-35
Days 36-42.
RTD2
All RTD Customers
Days 41-42
Days 41-42.
Sale
General Public
N/A
N/A.
(iii)
FEPP screening timeline.
(A) Screening timeline and procedures for FEPP will generally follow those listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(B) During contingency operations, the ASD (L
MR) may approve expedited screening timelines and changes to issue priorities.
(iv)
DoD screening methods.
(A) DoD reutilization screening is accomplished electronically via MILSTRIP and DLA Transaction Services through the DLA Disposition Services Web site. If the electronic method is unsuccessful, please fax the following on agency letterhead: Name, phone number, point of contact, internet provider (IP) address, and two signatures of authorized individuals to DLA Disposition Services Reutilization Office at fax commercial 269-961-7348 or DSN 661-7348.
(B) Local screening at the DLA Disposition Services sites is on-site (visual) viewing of excess property. Physical inspection of property may not be possible for assets at depot recycling control points (RCPs), receipts in-place, or remote locations.
(v)
GSAXcess® screening.
(A) Users must obtain an access code from GSA to screen through GSAXcess®. To learn about GSAXcess® and obtain access
code information, see:
http://apps.fss.gsa.gov/Manuals/Feds_Users_guide.
(B) DoD customers must obtain access from GSAXcess® to search and select property. The DoD Accountable (Supply) Property Officer must provide GSA a letter (on official letterhead) or email (from a “.mil” address) requesting access for their representatives and include addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, and DoDAAC of those authorized to select property from GSAXcess®. Customers may select items once the access is granted.
(C) DoD customers who only want to search for available property in GSAXcess® can also register for search only access at
www.gsaxcess.gov.
(vi)
Screening exceptions.
Generally, property cannot be screened before it is entered on DLA Disposition Services site's accountable records. However, instances where screening prior to entry may be justified include:
(A) Property needed to fulfill emergency orders, (
e.g.,
PD 01-03, NMCS, disaster relief) and which may be processed as a “wash-post” transaction. The DLA Disposition Services site must be able to fully justify these actions and ensure a signed receipt copy of the DTID is returned to the generating activity.
(B) Backlog situations where usable property is in danger of being damaged by the elements due to a lack of adequate storage and an authorized customer is on location.
(vii)
Automated want lists.
(A) Customers may use the automated pre-receipt information to flag desired NSNs. Use of this tool does not guarantee the items will become available. If notified that the item is in the excess inventory, customers must use standard MILSTRIP order procedures. For more guidance, see
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/index.shtml.
(B) Customers may submit automated searches for recurring NSNs through the DoD Property Search Web site at
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/index.shtml.
Results are emailed to the customer.
(C) Customers may also submit a “Want List” in GSAXcess®, which can help them locate excess property from civilian agencies.
(viii)
Specialized screening for ICPs.
(A) DLA Disposition Services will electronically report to designated ICPs those assets with valid NSNs meeting dollar value and condition code criteria established by each DoD Component. The notification will be sent electronically to the recorded DoD wholesale manager (ICP or IMM) concurrently with recording the excess in the DLA Disposition Services system for accounting for excess property in DoD. Component IMMs may view the NSNs they requested during the first 5 days of the accumulation period before the items become available to other DoD activities. The ICPs must send their request to: DLA Disposition Services, Hart-Dole-Inouye Federal Center, 74 North Washington Avenue, Suite 2429, Battle Creek, Michigan 49037.
(B) The DoD ICP or IMM will screen these notifications to determine if needs exist. DLA Disposition Services site excesses will be reutilized to satisfy known or projected buy and repair needs.
(C) Orders for property during the internal screening periods will be prepared according to MILSTRIP and submitted to DLA Disposition Services.
(ix)
Issues to and turn-ins by special programs and activities
—(A)
DoD HAP.
(
1
) The DoD HAP is authorized to dispose excess property through DoD DLA Disposition Services site channels.
(
2
) Providing non-lethal DoD excess personal property for humanitarian purposes is authorized pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2557. Preparation and transportation of this property is carried out in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2661. HAP allows DoD to make available, prepare, and transport non-lethal, excess DoD property for distribution by DOS for humanitarian reasons. The program is managed by the DSCA Office of Humanitarian Assistance and Demining.
(
3
) In most instances, property issues will be from DLA Disposition Services inventories. The most commonly requested types of property are medical equipment, field gear, tools, clothing, rations, light vehicles, construction, and engineering equipment. DLA Disposition Services sites will issue all property destined for the HAP, with the exception of drugs and biologicals (Federal Supply Classification Code
(FSC) 6505), which may be issued directly by the Military Departments. HAP orders and issues will be documented on DD Form 1348-1A “Issue Release/Receipt Document.”
(B)
LEAs.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2576a, DLA has established an office to permit civil police authority to acquire excess DoD property, and the Web site
https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/leso/index.shtml
provides information to assist with the process. LEAs can contact DLA Disposition Services at: DLA Disposition Services, Hart-Dole-Inouye Federal Center, 74 North Washington Avenue, Suite 2429, Battle Creek, Michigan 49037, Toll free: 1-877-DLA-CALL, DSN: 661-7766, Commercial/FTS 269-961-7766.
(
1
) 10 U.S.C. 2576a authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy, and DOJ, to transfer excess DoD property, including small arms, light weapons, and ammunition, to federal and State LEAs, including counterdrug and counterterrorism activities. The federal program is known as the 1033 Program. The DLA Disposition Services has managerial responsibilities in support of such transfers and will establish business relationships with participating States by memorandum of agreement (MOA).
(
2
) LEAs will return sensitive or controlled DEMIL-required property originally ordered from DLA Disposition Services when no longer needed. DEMIL-required equipment that is the responsibility of the LEA must be demilitarized in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. Due to constant changes and development of new technology, Table 4 of this section is only a partial list of NSNs that may contain radioactive components as identified for Army Navy (AN) night vision equipment codes in DoD 4160.28-M, Volume 2. These NSNs and many others should not be transferred to DLA Disposition Services sites. The turn-in activity will verify with the DLA Disposition Services site whether equipment contains radioactive components before turning in any night vision equipment.
Table 4—NSNs With Radioactive Components
NSN No.
Radioactive component
5855-00-053-3142
AN/TVS-4 (prototype)
5855-00-087-2942
AN/PVS-1
5855-00-087-2947
AN/PVS-2
5855-00-087-2974
AN/PVS-1
5855-00-087-3114
AN/TVS-2
5855-00-113-5680
MX-8201
5855-00-156-4992
AN/PVS-3A
5855-00-156-4993
MX-8201A
5855-00-179-3708
AN/PVS-2A
5855-00-179-3709
MX-7833
5855-00-400-2619
MX-7833A
5855-00-484-8638
AN/TVS-2B
5855-00-688-9956
AN/TVS-4
5855-00-688-9957
AN/TVS-4
5855-00-760-3869
AN/PVS-2B
5855-00-760-3870
AN/TVS-4A
5855-00-791-3358
AN/TVS-2A
5855-00-832-9223
MX-7833
5855-00-832-9341
AN/PVS-3
5855-00-906-0994
AN/TVS-4
5855-00-911-1370
AN/TVS-2
5855-01-093-3080
AN/PAS-7A
5855-00-087-3144
AN/TVS-2
(C)
DoD or service museums.
(
1
) Legal authority is provided by 10 U.S.C. 2572, which allows the loan, gift, or exchange of specified historic or obsolete or condemned military property. Approval authority for museum acquisitions from DLA Disposition Services sites expressly for the purpose of exchange must be granted by the activity having staff supervision over the museum. Approval authority includes:
(
i
) U.S. Army: Chief of Military History (DAMH-MD), 1099 14th Street NW., Washington, DC 20005-3402.
(
ii
) U.S. Navy: Curator for the Navy, Naval Historical Center, Building 108, Washington Navy Yard, Washington, DC 20374-0571.
(
iii
) U.S. Air Force: Director, National Museum of the United States Air Force, HQAFMC, 1100 Spaatz Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio 45433-7102.
(
iv
) U.S. Marine Corps: Marine Corps History Division, 3079 Moreel Avenue, Quantico, Virginia 22134.
(
v
) U.S. Coast Guard: Coast Guard Historian, Commandant (CG-09224), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, Douglas A. Munro Building, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr., Avenue, South East Stop 7031, Washington, DC 20593-7031.
(
2
) The DoD or Military Department museums will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess property using DoDAACs.
(
3
) The DoD and Military Department museums may obtain property from DLA Disposition Services sites for use, display, or exchange. With the exception of historical artifacts, stockpiling of property obtained from DLA Disposition Services sources for future exchange is prohibited.
(
4
) The normal ordering procedures apply. The DD Form 1348-1A, in addition to routine information, will include:
(
i
) The museum's individual DoDAAC or the DoDAAC of the Service headquarters with central responsibility for historical property.
(
ii
) A statement if the property is to be used for display, exchange, or use (
e.g.,
property needed to maintain the museums' buildings and grounds, for day-to-day housekeeping operations, or to maintain displays).
(
iii
) Only DEMIL Code “A” property is requested. Examples of DEMIL Code A items suitable for housekeeping purposes by DoD museums may include: Federal Supply Classification Groups (FSGs) 52—hand tools; 53—hardware; 55—lumber; 56—construction materials; 61—electric wire; 62—lighting fixtures; 71—furniture; 72—furnishings; 75—office supplies; 79—cleaning equipment; 80—brushes and paints. Orders of property for exchange will reflect the DoDAAC of the DoD Military Department museums. An exception to this procedure applies to M151 series, M561, and M792 (Gamma Goat) vehicles. Although coded as DEMIL Code A, exchange of the vehicles is prohibited.
(
5
) DLA Disposition Services sites will:
(
i
) Ensure DEMIL Code A property ordered by a museum for exchange purposes has no current challenges to that code. This applies to all items whether recorded in the DLA Logistic Information Service Federal Logistics Information System Master Item File or not, including scrap and captured military items. Excluded are the M151 series vehicles, hazardous property, and MLI and CCL items, which are not authorized for museum exchanges.
(
ii
) Ensure authorized property ordered by museums for exchange is released to the ordering museum personnel only. Identification of the individual is required. These personnel must be military or civilian employees of the museum, not volunteers or members of the museums' private supporting organizations.
(
6
) The DoD operating activities and Military Departments will:
(
i
) Maintain accountable records according to appropriate DoD and Service regulations of all items withdrawn from DLA Disposition Services sites, to include all materiel transactions, receipts from the DLA Disposition Services site, and transfer and exchange documents.
(
ii
) Provide to DLA Disposition Services a list of all the DoD museums and Service museums authorized to negotiate with DLA Disposition Services sites, including the name of the institution, address, telephone number, and the DoDAAC of the museum.
(D)
National Guard units.
(
1
) National Guard Units will use the standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property through the use of DoDAACs.
(
2
) Issues of excess DoD property and FEPP to National Guard units must be approved by the National Guard Bureau or the U.S. Property and Fiscal Officer (USP
FO), or their authorized representative, for the State in which the National Guard unit is located. Requests received from National Guard units that do not contain the signature of the USP
FO, their authorized representative, or the National Guard Bureau, will not be honored.
(E)
Senior ROTC units.
(
1
) Senior ROTCs will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property using DoDAACs.
(
2
) Military Departments' Senior ROTC units may obtain excess DoD property and FEPP from DLA Disposition Services sites to support supplemental proficiency training programs. Orders to DLA Disposition Services sites must be approved by the installation commander or designee, normally responsible for providing logistical support to the instructors group. Property will be issued to the accountable officer of the school concerned.
(F)
USCG.
As a recognized military service and a branch of the U.S. Armed Forces, and due to the association of the USCG to the U.S. Navy, DLA Disposition Services will accept USCG (DHS) excess property, USCG excess
DoD property and FEPP for disposal. The principles outlined in paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.
(
1
) USCG excess DoD property may be transferred to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site after internal USCG screening. Physical retention of the property by the USCG is preferred, especially if size or economics prevent physical transfer.
(
2
) Property physically turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site does not qualify for reimbursement.
(
3
) After the USCG completes all RTD screening for aircraft and vessels, DLA Disposition Services may provide sales services through an in-place MOU that outlines all USCG and DLA Disposition Services responsibilities.
(
4
) USCG aircraft may be transferred to the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG), Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona, according to the ISSA between the USCG and the USAF.
(
5
) USCG orders must include a citation as to the USCG directive authorizing the unit to obtain the property listed on the order. In addition, the fund citation for transportation must be included on the DTID. Individual floating and shore units of the USCG may be delegated authority to order excess DoD property without Commandant, USCG approval. Indicate the delegating authority on all orders. The DLA Disposition Services site need not validate the authenticity of the authority, but only the fact that such authorization appears on the order.
(G)
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) civil works property.
(
1
) Based on the association of Civil Works with the U.S. Army, the COE will use Department of the Army DoDAACs to transfer personal property through DLA Disposition Services for disposal, including hazardous property through a service contract.
(
2
) COE civil works activities may order property through DLA Disposition Services as a DoD activity, using an assigned Army DoDAAC or as an FCA, using an address activity code through GSAXcess®.
(H)
MAP Property and Property for FMS.
DoD Directive 5105.22 and paragraph (b) of this section provide additional procedures for MAP property or for property that can be purchased by eligible organizations through FMS.
(
1
) Following the country decision to dispose through DLA Disposition Services, the country and Security Assistance Office will determine, in coordination with DLA Disposition Services, the proper disposal method (
e.g.,
DEMIL or mutilation requirements, security classification, reimbursement decisions).
(
2
) DLA Disposition Services, in coordination with the country and Security Assistance Office will make provision for in-country U.S. personnel, with assistance from local personnel, as appropriate, to act as DLA Disposition Services agent where turn-in by the generating activity and physical handling by the DLA Disposition Services site is impractical. In addition to MILSTRIP documentation requirements of DLM 4000.25-1, the generating activity will include the following data on the electronic turn-in document or DTID for MAP items.
(
i
) Country.
(
ii
) DTID number, to include at a minimum, in the first position, a service code (B, D, K, P, or T); in the second position, a country or activity code in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.20, and in the third position, the Julian date.
(
iii
) Identification of MAP Address Directory Security Assistance Offices initiating turn-in.
(
iv
) MAP account fund citation.
(
3
) Screen disposable MAP property for reutilization, FMS, and transfer to fill known federal needs. Process disposable MAP property surviving reutilization, FMS screening, and other transfers to sale.
(
4
) Process MAP property used for any purpose other than to meet approved DoD needs for RTD or sale on a reimbursable basis.
(
5
) The allocation of weapons, ammunition, flyable aircraft (rotary and fixed-wing) and selected property will be accomplished by DLA, as coordinated with the Office of Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Supply Chain Integration.
(
6
) All other excess DoD property will be processed through DLA Disposition
Services on a first-come, first-served basis.
(I)
DoD contractors and contractor inventory.
(
1
) The disposal of DoD contractor inventory is generally the contractor's responsibility in accordance with 48 CFR 45.602-1 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless the contract specifies that excess DoD property be returned to the government, as a result of a determination by the CO at contract expiration that DLA Disposition Services disposal would be in the best interests of the government. Property physically turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site does not qualify for reimbursement to the generating activity.
(
2
) If property is purchased and retained by a DoD contractor, net proceeds from the sale of the property will be deposited into the generating activity's suspense account.
(
3
) DLM 4000.25-1 permits the Military Department or Defense Agency management control activity (MCA) to withdraw or authorize the withdrawal of specified excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites for use as government-furnished material or government-furnished equipment to support contractual requirements.
(
4
) Orders will be completed in accordance with Chapter 11 of DLM 4000.25-1 and include the DoDAAC assigned to the contractor. These orders must be processed by the MCA having cognizance of the applicable contract.
(
5
) Property ordered must be authorized and listed in the DoD contract(s) for which the property will be used, recorded in the ICP's MCA responsible for the contract, and the use of the ordered property approved by the CO or CO's representative (COR) for such contract(s). Each electronic or manual order (DD Form 1348-1A) must contain the signature and title of the CO or COR authorizing the withdrawal of excess DoD property from the disposal system. Each order must also contain the certification: “For use under Contract No(s)._____.” The certification should be signed by an authorized official and should indicate his or her official title.
(
6
) DLA Disposition Services sites cannot guarantee the property withdrawn meets minimum specifications and standards in terms of quality, condition, and safety.
(J)
NAF activities.
(
1
) Includes expense items and NAF resale goods procured by NAF activities such as military exchanges and MWRAs or Services, but excludes commissary store trust fund account equipment.
(
2
) DLA Disposition Services will not process property typically reclaimed from customers by the military exchanges such as used batteries, tires, oils, etc., as a part of their normal business. The NAF must process property in accordance with the guidance shown under Army and Air Force Exchange Service in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 for disposal of these assets.
(
3
) Acceptable types of property will be processed for federal screening only and are not eligible for donation. They are eligible for reutilization or transfer provided the generating NAF activities waive reimbursement or negotiate reimbursement with the ordering activity.
(
i
) The generating activity will provide a statement on the DTID that the property was purchased with NAF to obtain appropriate reimbursement. If the DTID does not contain this citation, the property will be processed as normal excess DoD property.
(
ii
) In addition to standard entries, documentation will contain the unit cost (in lieu of the Federal Logistics Data acquisition cost) recorded in the financial and accounting records of the NAF activity. DLA Disposition Services sites will use this value for inventory, reporting, reutilization, transfer, and sale purposes.
(
iii
) Reimbursement will be completed between the generating activity and the order for property reutilized or transferred. Sales proceeds will be deposited in accordance with Volume 11a, chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R (unless otherwise directed or superseded).
(
4
) DoD MWRAs or Services may order excess DoD property and FEPP through the MWRAs/Services that have a DoDAAC on file with the DAAS. Requests for small arms or light weapons must be ordered by servicing accountable officers only and be approved by the designated DoD focal point as identified in Table 4 of this subpart. See
DoD Manual 4160.21 Volume 4 for guidelines on reutilization of small arms and light weapons.
(
5
) NAF property ordered by or through a servicing accountable officer will be used and accounted for the same as all procurements, according to applicable Military Department or Defense Agency procedures.
(
6
) Orders received by DLA Disposition Services sites directly from an MWRA or Military Department accountable officer will be for administrative and other purposes from which individuals will realize no direct benefits.
(
7
) Orders will contain the MWRA or Service account number, the signature of the MWRA or Service Accountable Officer, and a statement that the property obtained without reimbursement will be identified separately in accounting records from property for which reimbursement was made. The order will include the statement that, when such property is obtained without reimbursement is no longer needed, it will be turned in to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site and that no part of the proceeds from sale or other disposition will be returned to the MWRAs or Services. Perpetuate this information from the order in follow-on documentation.
(
8
) If the property is not reutilized, transferred, or sold, DLA Disposition Services will notify the NAF activity that accountability will revert to the NAF activity and further disposal processing will be the responsibility of the NAF activity. If the DLA Disposition Services site has taken physical custody, the NAF activity will be responsible for retrieving the property.
(K)
MARS.
(
1
) MARS is an appropriated fund activity that operates under the jurisdiction of the Military Departments and is an integral part of the DoD communication system. MARS units will use standard DoD processes to dispose excess DoD property using DoDAACs.
(
2
) The Military Departments responsible for MARS are authorized to order excess DoD property and FEPP through their respective accountable officers. The following ordering stipulations apply:
(
i
) Designation of accountable officers and representatives authorized to screen and obtain excess DoD property and FEPP at DLA Disposition Services sites is described in this section.
(
ii
) The property ordered is for immediate use by a MARS member or member station for its intended purpose; property may not be acquired for storage. When property requested is to be used for reclamation, written approval for such action must be obtained in advance from the Military Department MARS chief in coordination with the accountable officer. Property ordered for reclamation is limited to materiel in DCC X or S.
(
iii
) Excess DoD property and FEPP ordered from a DLA Disposition Services site for MARS may be shipped to a DoD activity or picked up at a DLA Disposition Services site by personnel who are appropriately identified and approved. Property ordered for reclamation is designated for local pickup only at the DLA Disposition Services site. Maintain accountability of residue in accordance with Military Department directives.
(
3
) The accountable officer will maintain accountability for all property acquired and issued to MARS members and MARS member stations. The property remains government property.
(
4
) When the property is no longer needed for use by the MARS, the accountable officer arranges for the equipment to be turned in to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site, if economically feasible. If it is not economically feasible to turn in the property, the accountable officer will employ A/D procedures according to Enclosure 4 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2.
(
5
) The respective Military Department may limit MARS orders to selected FSCs.
(
6
) The release of property to MARS activities is governed by the following procedures:
(
i
)
Army MARS.
In CONUS, the authority to order and obtain excess DoD property and FEPP to fill valid requirements is vested in the accountable MARS Program Manager (MPM) appointed by the Chief, Army MARS. Outside the CONUS, the authority to order and obtain excess DoD property
and FEPP for the Army MARS program is vested in the 5th Signal Command MARS Director (Europe); 1st Signal Brigade U.S. Army Information System Command (USAISC) (Korea); USAISC Japan; and USAISC Western Command (Hawaii). The MPM who is the accountable officer appointed by the Chief, Army MARS will originate and sign all orders. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer for MARS equipment.
(
ii
)
Navy/Marine Corps MARS (NAVMARCORMARS).
In CONUS, the authority to originate orders for excess DoD property and FEPP to fill valid requirements in the NAVMARCORMARS program is vested in the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; Directors of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 7th MARS Regions; and the Officer in Charge, Headquarters Radio Station. All orders must be signed by the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS, or the Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer. Outside the CONUS, the authority to originate orders comes from Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; the Deputy Chief, NAVMARCORMARS; or a regional director or a specific designee of the Chief, NAVMARCORMARS. Process orders through the applicable accountable officer.
(
iii
)
USAF MARS.
The Office of the Chief, USAF MARS, and staff, active duty Installation MARS Directors (IMDs), and active MARS affiliates are authorized to screen and identify property for USAF MARS use. MARS affiliates are identified by a valid AF Form 3666, “Military Affiliate Radio System Station License and Identification Card,” signed by the Chief, USAF MARS. The IMD is appointed in writing by the installation commander or a designated representative; this appointment constitutes authority for screening and identification of property. Orders for property for MARS reutilization must be approved by the Chief, USAF MARS, or designated representative; this approval authority cannot be delegated. All approved orders will be processed through the USAF MARS Accountable Property Officer or designated alternate, who will initiate and sign a DD Form 1348-1A to authorize release of identified property. Authority to sign release documents will not be delegated. The accountable officer maintains current and valid identification of their MARS members to prevent unauthorized screening by MARS members or former members.
(L)
CAP.
(
1
) The CAP is the official auxiliary of the USAF and is eligible to receive excess DoD property and FEPP without reimbursement subject to the approval of the Headquarters USAF, CAP (HQ CAP-USAF). Title to the property is transferred to the CAP upon the condition that the property be used by the CAP to support valid mission requirements. Authority for the CAP members to screen and obtain excess DoD property will be in writing and signed by an authorized official of the CAP-USAF. HQ CAP-USAF retains the authority to approve and control the types and amounts of items obtained by the CAP.
(
2
) The CAP will remain accountable for all property acquired from the DoD disposal system and will maintain and safeguard the property from loss or damage. The CAP and its members are strictly prohibited from selling, donating, or bartering property previously obtained from the DoD disposal system under any circumstances.
(
3
) The CAP is not eligible to screen or receive AMARG aircraft reported by the Military Departments and other governmental agencies. If flyable non-AMARG category “A” aircraft made available for screening by an owning Military Department are selected for issue and approved by the HQ CAP-USAF to fulfill valid CAP mission needs, the following procedures apply:
(
i
)
Flyable aircraft.
The head of the owning Military Department will issue the aircraft to the accounts specified by the HQ CAP-USAF, ensuring that data plates and all available historical and modification records accompany the aircraft. The aircraft will be issued to the CAP upon condition that it be used by the CAP to support valid mission requirements. Prior to issuance, the appropriate CAP corporate officer (wing commander or higher) will execute a conditional gift agreement that specifies that the aircraft (parts, etc.)
be issued and delivered to AMARG when it becomes excess to CAP's mission needs. When the aircraft is no longer needed by the CAP, or as otherwise directed by the HQ CAP-USAF, the CAP will make arrangements through the HQ CAP-USAF for issue and delivery of the aircraft, data plates, and historical and modification records to AMARG.
(
ii
)
Reclamation of parts.
If the HQ CAP-USAF elects to allow the CAP to use the aircraft for parts reclamation, the HQ CAP-USAF will contact the owning Military Department to make arrangements concerning reclamation of parts by the CAP. If the CAP declines to reclaim parts and components from the aircraft, the CAP will arrange through the HQ CAP-USAF for issue and delivery of the aircraft, data plates, and historical and modification records to AMARG.
(
iii
)
CAP aircraft.
All CAP aircraft delivered to AMARG will be reported to the GSA for use by FCAs and authorized donees. The CAP and its members are strictly prohibited from selling, donating, or bartering aircraft obtained from a Military Department under any circumstances.
(
4
) The CAP units will use assigned DoDAACs beginning in “FG” to transfer and order excess personal property.
(
5
) CAP members will identify themselves for pickup of property as stated in this section.
(M)
Federal Civilian Agencies (FCAs).
(
1
) These organizations include any non-defense executive agency or any member of the legislative or judicial branch of the government.
(
2
) The processes discussed in this section apply to FCAs transferring to and ordering excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites.
(
3
) FCAs that want to use DLA Disposition Services for disposition management instead of GSA are required to review and follow instructions provided on the DLA Disposition Services Web site and to:
(
i
) Comply with 31 U.S.C. 1535 (also known as the Economy Act).
(
ii
) Initiate an Economy Act Order with DLA Disposition Services Comptroller for establishing financial transactions. Final acceptance of the Economy Act Order constitutes authority for FCAs to use DLA Disposition Services. The Economy Act Order must be renewed on October 1 of each year. DLA Disposition Services transaction activity billing (TAB) rates, sales rates, and actual disposal rates are used for billing FCAs. TAB rates are available on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. DLA Disposition Services will bill and the FCA will pay all costs for services rendered. Billing documentation will include contract line item number, administrative, and services costs, and will be processed quarterly.
(
iii
) Ensure all laws and regulations are properly met prior to initiating a transfer transaction. Use DoD Instruction 4160.28; 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102; 48 CFR subpart 9.4 and 48 CFR 45.602-1, 52.233-1, and 14.407 of the FAR, current edition; and 5 U.S.C. 552, Volume 11a, Chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R, and Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76, “Performance of Commercial Activities” (available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_a076_a76_incl_tech_correction
) as governing documents.
(
iv
) Comply with DLM 4000.25-1, since in-transit control requirements are not applicable to FCA turn-ins.
(
v
) Comply with § 273.7(d), (e), and (f) for transferring excess DoD property, using DD Form 1348-1A or DD Form 1348-2, “Issue Release/Receipt Document with Address Label,” as DTIDs. Schedule turn-ins with the DLA Disposition Services site and assume responsibility for delivering usable and scrap property to DLA Disposition Services sites. Non-hazardous property may be received in-place using the standard DoD receipt in-place processes. Hazardous property cannot be physically accepted at the DLA Disposition Services site and will be processed in-place only, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(viii)(M)(
3
)(
vi
) and (
vii
) of this section. Property will normally be turned in as individual line items; however, batchlotting by FSC of non-hazardous items with a combined acquisition value of up to $800 is permitted. Identify the transaction by using their officially assigned FCA activity address code (AAC). The first position of the AAC begins with 1 through 9. Annotate “XP” funding code in
blocks 52 and 53 and a disposal authority code of “F” in position 64 of the DTID. Annotate the DLA Disposition Services Economy Act Order Assigned Number in block 27. Include appropriate hazardous property documents containing the required information found in Volume 4 of DoD 4160.21-M. Ensure that no radioactive material, waste, or other excluded hazardous property is turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site. Cover costs associated with substantiated sale contracts claims, if negligence or fault is established. Contact the appropriate DLA Disposition Services site for procedures to use when inventory discrepancies surface for property that the FCA is designated the custodian. The FCA will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property. Procedures are contained in accordance with Volume 12, Chapter 7 of DoD 7000.14-R.
(
vi
) Work with DLA Disposition Services to obtain HW disposal contract support, pursuant to the provisions of the FAR; for hazardous property, FCAs will define disposal service requirements for HW disposal and provide a yearly estimate of HW streams that may be generated and placed on DLA Disposition Services disposal service contracts; cover costs associated with substantiated contracts claims, if negligence or fault is established; maintain physical custody of hazardous property; provide a designated FCA representative to act as a CO's technical representative during pickup of hazardous property, and identify who will be trained and authorized to release the property for shipment, including signing shipping documents according to the procedures provided in 49 CFR part 172, subpart H.
(
vii
) Comply with the following liability provisions. Should any DLA HW disposal contractors' actions on behalf of the FCA result in a notice of potential liability to DLA or the FCA under 42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.
(also known as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act), 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
(also known as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act), or any other provision of federal or State law, immediate notification will be provided to DLA Disposition Services or the FCA. The FCA retains ultimate liability for hazardous property; FCAs will be responsible for environmental response costs attributable to their generated hazardous property. FCA is considered the generator for reporting purposes in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
and 9601
et seq.;
According to the terms of DLA Disposition Services HW disposal contracts, DLA Disposition Services disposal contractors are responsible for spills or leaks during the performance of their contracts, which result from the actions of the contractors' agents or employees; At no time will the DLA Disposition Services site dispose FCA excess DoD property or any provision of a HW contract for FCA property be interpreted or construed to require that funds be obligated or paid in violation of 31 U.S.C. 1341 or any other provisions of law.
(
4
) FCAs will:
(
i
) Work with DLA Disposition Services for DEMIL-required disposal support in accordance with the provisions of DoD Instruction 4160.28.
(
ii
) Reimburse DLA Disposition Services for A/D-related services.
(
iii
) Continue to turn in PM-bearing property at no charge in support of the DoD PMRP according to the procedures in Enclosure 5 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2. These transactions are accomplished through an ISSA.
(
iv
) Pay for all services rendered, according to established requirements and fees.
(
5
) Two months prior to the Economy Act Order's expiration, the FCA will notify the DLA Disposition Services Comptroller whether continued services are desired.
(
i
) If the Economy Act Order has not been re-established, DLA Disposition Services will continue to receive property for 60 days.
(
ii
) FCAs will continue payments until all property that was received within the fiscal year has been processed, even if the Economy Act Order has expired.
(
iii
) FCAs will pay at the rates established or re-established and maintain internal procedures to track DTIDs against billings for reconciliation.
(
6
) The policies in 41 CFR chapter 101 will be implemented when:
(
i
) An official Economy Act Order is finalized and the DLA Disposition Services Finance Office ensures that an officially assigned FCA AAC is in the DLA Disposition Services Accounting System. (This will indicate to DLA Disposition Services sites that receipt of excess property from the requesting FCA is authorized.)
(
ii
) A provisional copy or signed copy of a DD Form 1348-1A is the instant at which accountability for the FCA property (non-hazardous or hazardous) is transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site.
(
7
) If at any time any issue requires resolution, a team approach will be used at the turn-in activity and DLA Disposition Services site level. Disputes that cannot be resolved will be elevated to the next corresponding level of the FCA and the DLA Disposition Services. If necessary, alternative dispute resolution will be used.
(
8
) DLA Disposition Services sites will:
(
i
) Reserve the right to refuse any turn-in due to workload or resource constraints if support would seriously impair the DLA mission for the DoD.
(
ii
) Receive and screen FCA property using the same method used for excess DoD property, except property will not be made available to those special program organizations who, because of enabling legislation, may only obtain excess DoD property;
e.g.,
HAP, law enforcement support offices, and SEAs.
(
9
) Sales proceeds, if any, will be deposited into the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, unless otherwise specified by law. No reimbursement of proceeds will be made to the FCA. Contract claims resulting from the sale of federal property may be the responsibility of the FCA.
(
10
) For hazardous property, DLA Disposition Services will notify FCAs of any:
(
i
) New procedures pertaining to the disposal process or funding changes. HW contracts may be modified by mutual written consent of the parties. Modifications requiring resource changes may be given with enough advance notification for revisions or adjustments to be made during the budget formulation process and the hazardous disposal service contract process.
(
ii
) Proposed changes to administrative support costs at least 60 days in advance of a change.
(
11
) DLA Disposition Services will ensure DEMIL-required property and property that may require export controls are processed appropriately. Property requiring DEMIL may be shipped to an alternate location either by DLA Disposition Services or by an FCA. These charges are included in the TAB rates.
(
12
) FCAs desiring to order excess DoD property from DLA Disposition Services sites will follow the GSA procedures for acquiring property through GSAXcess®. Once excess DoD property is physically obtained from DLA Disposition Services, the property belongs to and must be disposed by the FCA. This includes property that is DEMIL or mutilation required. Turn-in of previously ordered property from the DLA Disposition Services will be accepted from only those FCAs that have established an Economy Act Order.
(
13
) FCAs may continue to participate in the DoD PMRP at no charge, in accordance with Enclosure 5 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2. These transactions are accomplished via an ISSA between DLA Disposition Services and FCAs.
(O)
U.S. Postal Service (USPS).
(
1
) USPS is not authorized to dispose excess DoD property through DLA Disposition Services without an FCA intragovernmental agreement.
(
2
) If such an agreement is executed:
(
i
) Items of a strictly postal nature, such as a carrier satchel embossed “U.S. Mail,” postal scales, or other equipment so similar in nature or design to official USPS equipment as to cause confusion may not be turned in to DLA Disposition Services sites, sold, or disposed to the general public until the USPS has been notified of the intended disposition and offered an opportunity to inspect the equipment. DLA Disposition Services sites will notify local post office inspectors of the existence of this property and arrange for its inspection if the USPS wants to prevent it from falling into the hands of unauthorized persons.
(
ii
) DoD purchased or owned postal equipment with official postal identification markings may be transferred to the USPS through DLA Disposition Services site processing, under the standard transfer policies in 41 CFR chapter 101. If transferred from DoD Components without going through an official DLA Disposition Services site, the DoD activity will negotiate with USPS for fair market reimbursement.
(
iii
) Property not transferred that contains markings that would tend to confuse this property with official USPS equipment will have the markings removed before release for DLA Disposition Services site processing.
(
iv
) Excess DoD postal equipment loaned to DoD Components by the USPS will be returned to the USPS.
(P)
American National Red Cross.
Property that was processed or donated by the American National Red Cross to a Military Department and becomes excess DoD property may not be disposed without notice to and consultation with the American National Red Cross. This property will be returned without reimbursement to the American National Red Cross upon request, if that organization pays packing and shipping costs.
(Q)
DoD Computers for Learning (CFL).
The DoD CFL program implements Executive Order 12999, “Educational Technology: Ensuring Opportunity for All Children in the Next Century” and enables DoD to transfer excess IT equipment to pre-kindergarten through grade 12 schools and educational non-profit organizations through a DLA Disposition Services web-based program. The DLA Disposition Services program replaces the DoD Computers for School, Educational Institution Partnership Program that was overseen by the Defense Information Systems Agency.
(
1
) Eligible educational organizations serve pre-kindergarten through grade 12 students and are public, private, or parochial schools or educational nonprofits classified as tax-exempt under section 501c of the United States tax code. Schools and educational nonprofits must be located within the United States and its territories.
(
i
) Schools must register in the DLA Disposition Services web-based CFL program and complete all point of contact and profile information.
(
ii
) Schools must ensure that IT equipment transferred will be used for student and faculty training to augment existing IT equipment, to strengthen their infrastructure, or for other academic-related programs.
(
iii
) All costs incurred in connection with the transfer of equipment through the CFL will be the responsibility of the school and include: Expenses in connection with the school's inspection of the IT equipment at DoD sites; cost of packing, crating, marking, and loading the equipment on the carrier's conveyance for transportation; and cost of transportation from DoD sites.
(
2
) DoD IT equipment FSG 70 with a DEMIL Code of A and DEMIL Code of Q with an Integrity Code of 6 that is located in CONUS and has been accepted to a DLA Disposition Services site's accountability records is eligible for transfer within DoD CFL once DoD screening is complete and the inventory is not requisitioned by DoD.
(
3
) IT equipment is available on an “as-is” basis, without warranties from DoD as to the condition of the equipment. Eligible equipment includes mainframes, minicomputers, microcomputers, modems, disk drives, printers, and items that are defined within the FSG 70 and are appropriate for use in CFL.
(
4
) After the DoD excess screening is completed, providing there are no DoD requests, DLA Disposition Services will:
(
i
) Make provisions for schools to receive information concerning DoD IT equipment that is available for transfer.
(
ii
) Notify the schools of available equipment that matches the profile submitted by the school.
(
iii
) “Freeze” the equipment when the school verifies a need so that other schools cannot be offered the same equipment.
(
iv
) Review, approve, and notify generating activities to transfer to a school by generating a MRO from DLA Disposition Services system for accounting for excess surplus property in DoD to decrement quantity and preclude transmission to the FEDS.
(
v
) While holding for transfer to schools, the following applies: 7-day accumulation (DoD can order anytime) and 14-day DoD screening (DoD can order anytime).
(
vi
) On day 14, if still available, DLA Disposition Services will freeze the property and create a MILSTRIP initiating a transfer to school transaction. DLA Disposition Services will send MILSTRIP to the generating activity, who will arrange for the school to remove the item. Schools authorized a transfer are responsible for arranging the pickup or shipping of IT equipment.
(
vii
) The IT equipment not designated to schools during the DoD CFL timeframe will be transmitted to GSAXcess® for FCAs and donees.
(
viii
) Generating activities can specify a school for intended transfer once DLA Disposition Services has accountability of the equipment, through the DLA Disposition Services web-based CFL program. From the DLA Disposition Services Home Page, the user may click on Property Search for Military, Federal, State, and Special Programs, then click on “Computers for Learning.” The CFL Program enables the generating activity to view the IT equipment that was turned in under their DoDAAC and then designate that equipment to approved schools. The generating activity has 7 days to make this selection; otherwise, the equipment can be viewed by any eligible educational activity.
(
ix
) Equipment not identified by a generating activity for a specific school will be made available to schools and educational non-profit organizations that are approved within CFL.
(
x
) The authorized school is responsible for coordinating with the generating activity for the removal of equipment.
(
xi
) The authorized school has 14 days after receipt of authorization to remove the equipment.
(
xii
) If the school does not remove the equipment within the 14 days, the generating activity will notify the DLA Disposition Services site of the non-removal.
(
xiii
) Upon receipt of notification, the DLA Disposition Services site will notify DLA Disposition Services to cancel the order.
(R)
Firefighter Transfer Program.
The DoD has authorized the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forestry Service (USDA FS) to manage DoD firefighting property transfers provided for in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2576b. Title to all Firefighter Property Transfer Program property will pass to the State upon:
(
1
) The State taking possession of the equipment (such as removing or having the equipment removed from a DLA Disposition Services site).
(
2
) The State receiving a DD 1348, “DoD Single Line Item Requisition System Document (Manual),” or SF 97 or both for the equipment. The DD Form 1348 or SF 97 will indicate which property requires DEMIL (DEMIL Codes C, D, and F).
(
3
) The USDA FS will track all equipment requiring DEMIL until final disposition and require the State to ensure that such equipment is either transferred to another DoD agency authorized to receive it or is returned to a DLA Disposition Services site when no longer required. USDA FS will require the State coordinate any such transfers and returns with the Distribution Reutilization Policy Directorate at DLA prior to the transfer. The recipients are responsible for funding shipment or removal.
(x)
Expedited processing (EP).
(A) EP is the approved reduction of screening timeframes. In the zone of interior (ZI), EP may be used on a case-by-case basis. Situations where EP may be considered include backlog situations, potential deterioration from outside storage, or other compelling reasons.
(B) GSA is the approving authority for EP for non-DEMIL required property within the ZI. DLA Disposition Services is the approving authority for DEMIL-required property within the ZI.
(C) Current automation technology allows items going through EP to be visible on the DLA Disposition Services Web site and GSAXcess®.
(D) In contingency operations the supported Combatant Command has the authority to accelerate screening timelines based on mission requirements and operational tempo.
(xi)
Screener identification and authorization.
(A) Individuals visiting DLA Disposition Services sites to view, order, or remove property or for any other reason are required to provide proper identification as authorized representatives of a valid recipient activity.
(
1
) Upon arrival at the DLA Disposition Services site, the individuals will sign the vehicle or visitor register indicating the vehicle registration number and the purpose of their visit.
(
2
) Visitors representing donation recipients will only be allowed to complete the tasks identified under “purpose of visit” on the vehicle or visitor register.
(
3
) All screeners will specify the DoDAAC or AAC for which they are inspecting.
(B) DoD screeners will further identify themselves as authorized representatives of a DoD Component by means of a current employee or Military personnel identification issued by the DoD activity.
(C) FCA screeners will present current employee identification as valid authorization. This also applies to screeners representing mixed-ownership USG corporations.
(D) Non-federal screeners will present an authorization on the letterhead of the sponsoring activity, identifying the bearer and indicating the nature of the authorization. This letter of authorization will be updated at least annually or as changes occur.
(E) All SEA screeners will present a valid driver's license or other State-approved picture identification or the letter of authorization.
(F) DLA Disposition Services sites will refer problems in identifying screeners to the activity commander. For FCA and donation screeners, refer to the proper GSA regional office.
(xii)
Screening for property at DLA Disposition Services sites.
(A) DLA Disposition Services sites will assist customers interested in obtaining property by referring them to the DLA Disposition Services Web site or by providing guidance for physical inspection and location of property. Assistance may also include use of a customer-designated personal computer to screen assets worldwide and establish a pre-defined customer want list.
(B) When a prospective donation recipient contacts a DLA Disposition Services site or military installation regarding possible acquisition of surplus property, the individual or organization will be advised to contact the applicable SASP for determination of eligibility and procedures.
(4)
Orders for FEPP, excess, and surplus property from DLA Disposition Services and GSA
—(i)
General.
(A) DoD activities, FCAs, and other authorized activities are permitted to order DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property based on the property status at the time the authorized screener identifies its availability from the DLA Disposition Services Web site. This property may be ordered through DLA Disposition Services or GSA.
(B) DLM 4000.25-1 requires orders for property on the DLA Disposition Services site's accountable records to be prepared on DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. The use of the DLA Disposition Services Web site allows orders to be processed without hard copies of DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. A separate order is required for each line item on a DLA Disposition Services site's inventory (except batchlots that are grouped together). The shopper will furnish the appropriate information either electronically or by hard copy.
(C) Orders for property in the GSA screening cycle will be submitted through GSAXcess®. Customers are required to complete and submit the SF 122 “Transfer Order Excess Personal Property” to GSA. GSA will then transmit the order to DLA Disposition Services.
(D) DoD activities (other than MWRAs or Services, which are covered in § 273.6) must request Military Department or Defense Agency excess and FEPP through servicing accountable officers or their designated representatives.
(E) See § 273.6 for special guidance affecting USCG ordering.
(F) U.S. Army accountable supply officers should check with their finance accounting office prior to requesting items from DLA Disposition Services.
Often, Army customers are billed internally for the items they have ordered from DLA Disposition Services.
(G) The following principles apply to acquiring property from these sources, including Federal regulations, which apply to the Department of Defense, special programs and activities, FCAs, and donees when acquiring excess or surplus personal property:
(
1
) There must be an authorized requirement.
(
2
) The cost of acquiring and maintaining the excess personal property (including packaging, shipping, pickup, and necessary repairs) does not exceed the cost of purchasing and maintaining new materiel and does not exceed the value of property requested.
(
3
) The sources of spare parts or repair and maintenance services to support the acquired item are readily accessible.
(
4
) The supply of excess parts acquired must not exceed the life expectancy of the equipment supported.
(
5
) The excess personal property will fulfill the required need with reasonable certainty without sacrificing mission or schedule.
(
6
) Excess personal property must NOT be acquired with the intent to sell or trade for other assets.
(
7
) DoD activities will request only that property that is authorized by the parent HQ or command. Activities may not request quantities of property exceeding authorized retention limits.
(H) The special screening programs will request only property that is authorized by the program or activity accountable officer or program manager, whichever is applicable. If the special screening programs want DLA Disposition Services site to verify the FSC has been authorized before release, the accountable officer or program manager must provide a current authorized FSC list to the DLA Disposition Services site. The removal agent must sign any certification required, acknowledging understanding of rules of disposal, prior to removal of the property.
(I) The Military Department accountable officer who designates DoD individuals to sign orders on their behalf must provide DLA Disposition Services sites with an electronic letter of authorization, identifying those individuals. The template for the letter is on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. It will include the full name, activity, DoDAAC, telephone number, address, and signature of the individuals authorized to sign and authenticate MROs. These individuals may be different from those who are the initial shoppers or those picking up the property.
(ii)
Emergency requests.
(A) Telephone requests during non-duty hours may be made by contacting the DLA Disposition Services staff duty officer (SDO) (DSN 661-4233; Commercial, 269-961-4233). Under these circumstances, the SDO will record the request and will contact the DLA Disposition Services program manager to initiate proper action.
(B) If a DoD activity has an emergency need for a surplus DoD item in the possession of a SASP, it may be requested from that SASP. The acquiring DoD activity must pay any costs of care, handling, and transportation that were incurred by the SASP in acquiring this property.
(C) For requests for property to fill training aid and target need orders, see “Training Aids and Target Requirements” in paragraph 147 of Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
(iii)
Late orders.
(A) If a DoD order is received after the screening timeline has expired, the customer will provide justification as to the true necessity for the property requested, indicating why other comparable property in the DLA Disposition Services inventory does not satisfy the need. See paragraph (a) of this section for more guidance if the property needs to be withdrawn from sale.
(B) Orders for property received during the GSAXcess® screening period must be submitted according to GSA ordering procedures.
(iv)
Requests for small arms and light weapons.
Small arms and light weapons (see § 273.12) will be processed according to the guidance in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4. Table 5 of this section contains a list of Military Department and Defense Agency designated control points authorized to initiate orders or through which orders must be routed for review and approval before issue can be effected.
Table 5—DoD Designated Control Points for Small Arms and Light Weapons Ordering, Reviewing, and Approving
Service/Agency
Control point
Army
Director of Armament and Logistics Activity, Chemical Acquisition, ATTN: AMSTA-AC-ASI, Rock Island, IL 61299-7630, Telephone: DSN 793-7531, Commercial: (309) 782-7531.
Air Force
WR-ALC/GHGAM, 460 Richard Ray Blvd. Suite 221, Robins AFB, GA 31098-1640, Telephone: DSN 497-2877, Commercial: (478) 327-2877.
Marine Corps
Commandant of the Marine Corps, ATTN: LPC, Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, 3000 Marine Corps, Pentagon, RM 2E211, Washington, DC 20350, Telephone: DSN 225-8900, Commercial: (703) 695-8900.
Coast Guard
Commandant, ATTN: CG-7211, Commandant (CG-7211), U. S. Coast Guard HQ, Douglas A. Munro Bldg., 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave, SE, Stop 7331, Washington, DC 20593-7331, (202) 372-2030.
National Security Agency
National Security Agency, Item Accounting Branch, ATTN: L112, Fort George Meade, MD 20755 6000.
Defense Intelligence Agency
Defense Intelligence Agency, ATTN: RLE 2, Washington, DC 20340 3205.
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Headquarters, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, 8725 John J. Kingman Road MSC 6201, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-6201, ATTN: BDLL, Telephone: DSN 427-0785, Commercial (703) 767-0785.
(5)
Condition of property ordered.
Orders authorized by DLA Disposition Services or GSA regional offices will be processed as expeditiously as possible and according to the Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System priority on the requisition.
(i) DLA Disposition Services sites will determine the property requested is in as good a condition as it was during screening.
(ii) If the ordered property has materially deteriorated from screening or receipt to inspection for shipment, the DLA Disposition Services site will advise the customer before shipment. The shipment will be suspended pending agreement by the customer that the property will be accepted in its present condition.
(iii) Once ordered, and pending receipt of an approved transfer document or removal of the property, no parts may be removed without prior approval of DLA Disposition Services (for DoD orders) or GSA (for transfers and donations), and agreement by the customer that the property will be accepted in its altered condition.
(6)
Reimbursement requirements.
(i) The generating activity will identify reimbursement requirements on the DTID when transferring property to the DLA Disposition Services site. Although not specifically a DLA Disposition Services responsibility, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact the generating activity when they suspect the generator may be eligible for reimbursement but has not noted it on the DTID.
(ii) Issue of declared Military Department or Defense Agency FEPP, excess and surplus personal property to DoD users will be on a non-reimbursable basis except when the customer is prohibited by law from acquiring FEPP, excess and surplus property without reimbursement or where reimbursement is required by annotations on the receipt DTID. Issues to the USPS require fair-market value reimbursement.
(iii) The requester will transfer funds to the generating activity without DLA Disposition Services site involvement.
(iv) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide the name of the property requiring reimbursement when it is requested by the DoD or an FCA. The requesting activity and the generating activity must agree on the appropriate amount of funds, and how they will be transferred. When this is accomplished, the generating activity must give the DLA Disposition Services site a letter indicating what property is to be transferred and to whom. The DLA Disposition Services site will file a copy of this letter with the issue document to create an audit trail.
(v) Issues of DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property, other than foreign purchased property and other property identified as reimbursable, will be at no cost to FCAs and to SASPs.
(A) Property purchased with working capital funds is not eligible for reimbursement in the transfer or donation program. GSA may direct transfers be
made with reimbursement at fair market value.
(B) Public law may prohibit FCAs from obtaining certain property.
(C) FCAs, for the purpose of issue of excess property, include federal executive agencies other than the DoD; wholly owned government corporations; the Senate; the House of Representatives; the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under their direction; the municipal government of the District of Columbia; or non-federal agencies for whom GSA procures.
(vi) Foreign purchased property reimbursements will be at the acquisition value.
(vii) For special programs and activities, DLA Disposition Services sales to special account fund citations may be required in accordance with Volume 11a, Chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R. For DLA Disposition Services to provide timely and accurate reimbursements, the transportation account code address in DLA Transaction Services must be correct and current.
(A) In accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, all DoD MLI and Commerce Control List (CCL) personal property, whether located within or outside the United States, will be transferred in accordance with 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
(
1
) DoD MLI or CCL personal property will not be transferred to any foreign person or entity without DoS or DOC approval, authorization, license, license exception, exemption, or other authorization for the transfer.
(
2
) Such property will not be transferred to prohibited or sanctioned entities identified by the Departments of State, Commerce, and Treasury. A consolidated list of prohibited entities by these Departments may be found at
http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp
.
(
3
) Property will not be transferred to persons or entities from countries proscribed from trade under regulations maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The agency (
e.g.,
GSA or USAF CAP Program Manager) approving the transaction must determine recipient eligibility prior to issuing the requisition to DLA Disposition Services.
(
4
) If the agency approving the requisition cannot determine that a U.S. person or entity is involved with the property transaction, the recipient must obtain and provide the appropriate license or approval to the agency approving the transaction.
(
5
) Approving agencies must be involved in any subsequent re-transfer requests by the recipient. The recipient must request the agency's permission prior to taking any disposition action. If the approving agency authorizes the potential transfer, the recipient must then comply with 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, also known as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), or 15 CFR parts 730 through 780, also known as the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), as appropriate.
(B) For USML and CCL property, DLA Disposition Services sites will require recipients to sign a statement acknowledging their responsibility to comply with U.S. export laws and regarding regulations. The statement must be signed prior to the release of the property according to the DEMIL procedures in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. If property is destined for export, the recipient must get appropriate export authorizations from the DoS or DOC in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08.
(C) DLA Disposition Services sites may issue DEMIL-required property to approved special programs or GSA eligibility-approved FCAs without DEMIL being accomplished.
(
1
) Prior to release from DoD control, DLA Disposition Services sites must obtain a written agreement (see Appendixes 1 and 2 of this section) from the requesting special program or FCA.
(
2
) This agreement acknowledges that the recipient will DEMIL the USML property in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, when the property is no longer needed.
(
3
) The agreement further states that if the property is to be re-transferred, the recipient must obtain approval from its program manager (approving agency) and in coordination with the DoD DEMIL program manager prior to further disposition or before releasing
the USML property outside their control. The representative of the recipient is required to sign the DEMIL agreement before release of any USML property.
(
4
) If the recipient requests DLA Disposition Services to perform final disposition, an MOA must be executed or in place with DLA Disposition Services for such services.
(
5
) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide a completed copy of the certification to the GSA and retain a copy with the issue documentation.
(D) DLA Disposition Services sites may transfer CCL (DEMIL Code Q) and non-DEMIL-required USML (DEMIL Code B) property that may have import and export controls to approved special programs or FCAs. Prior to release of such CCL and non-DEMIL-required USML property, the requesting special program or FCA must provide written notification to the DLA Disposition Services site (see Appendixes 3 and 4 of this section). This notification confirms recipient's understanding that export or import of the CCL or non-DEMIL-required USML property is regulated by the USG and in many cases cannot be transferred (exported, imported, sold, etc.) to a foreign person, entity or foreign country without valid USG license or other authorization.
(viii) GSA reviews and approves each order, each in its respective screening cycle (transfer or donation).
(7)
Shipment or pick-up elections by customers
—(i)
Criteria for non-RCP property.
(A) DLA Disposition Services will make arrangements for shipment of non-RCP property from Military Department orders unless notified by the DoD Component of the intent to physically pick up the property. DLA Disposition Services has been authorized to use ground services for the movement of reutilization property. The DLA Disposition Services Transportation Office will notify DLA Disposition Services sites of the authorized carrier.
(B) The DoD Component and special programs have 14 calendar days (15 days from the date on the order) to remove the non-RCP property ordered during the DoD screening cycles.
(C) Transfer (FCA) and donee (State agency) customers are always required to make their own pickup and shipment arrangements for non-RCP property orders and have 21 calendar days to remove non-RCP property ordered during the GSAXcess® screening cycle.
(D) Standard transportation or preferred pick up of the property requested by DoD customers who are allocated property by GSA apply.
(
1
) If DoD transfers customers order from the GSAXcess®, they also have 21 days to remove the non-RCP property.
(
2
) Customers required to pick up or arrange direct pickup must do so within the allotted standard removal time period unless it is extended by the DLA Disposition Services site chief. An example of justification for extended removal time would be as a result of a natural disaster (flood, snow, etc.). DLA Disposition Services site personnel may refuse MILSTRIPs or walk-in removals for customers who fail to pick up their property within the removal period and request cancellation of the order.
(ii)
Criteria for RCP property.
(A) DLA Disposition Services will arrange for shipment of RCP property from Military Department and special program orders.
(B) FCAs will designate the method of transportation for RCP property ordered using one of the following options:
(
1
) The FCA arrange with carriers of their choice to remove the property from a designated staging area at the depot; or
(
2
) The FCAs requests the DLA Disposition Services RCP Office to use an approved carrier under the DoD blanket purchase agreement awarded carrier for Domestic Express Small Package Service under the GSA Multiple Award Schedule for shipments of 150 pounds or less at
http://private.amc.af.mil/a4/domexpress/spsindex.html
. Use of this option for the smaller shipments requires a one-time notification to DLA Disposition Services of the preferred carrier and account number in the format.
(C) FCAs must arrange with the carriers of their choice for shipments in excess of 150 pounds.
(D) Donee (State agency) customers are always required to make their own pickup or shipment arrangements for
RCP property orders from designated staging areas.
(8)
Packing, crating, and handling.
See § 273.7.
(9)
Shipment and removals (transportation).
—(i)
DoD and designated DoD-supported customers.
(A) Prudence in transportation services benefits the Military Departments, Defense Agencies, MARS, CAP, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Space Shuttle Support), National Guard Units, Reserve Units, DoD contractor when approved by the CO, Senior ROTC, and MWRA/Services when ordered through the Military Department accountable officer and DLA Disposition Services.
(B) In cases where the cost of the transportation exceeds the acquisition value of the property, DLA Disposition Services sites will evaluate the commodity and its actual value; make a judgment as to its true condition and the priority of the order.
(
1
) The DLA Disposition Services site will contact the customer and provide the property's estimated value and transportation cost to ship the property.
(
2
) If a lower cost transportation mode is available, meets the requirements of the order, and the customer and DLA Disposition Services site agree, the DLA Disposition Services site will arrange for the alternate shipment mode. If it would not be cost effective to ship the property as requested, the customer will be asked to cancel the order.
(
3
) If the customer reconfirms the need for the property, the following certification information will be provided to a DLA Disposition Services site along with the customer reconfirmation statement found in Appendix 5 of this section. DoD activities must prepare, sign, and submit a justification statement for property where the transportation costs exceed 50 percent of the acquisition value of the property. The justification statement will be signed by the Property Book Officer or designated representative and will state:
(
i
) The purpose for which the item is to be used and whether the item is mission-essential to the operation of the requestor's activity.
(
ii
) Any additional information deemed necessary to show criticality of the requisition. The statement should be included with the DD Form 1348. Failure to provide a statement may result in the requisition being canceled.
(C) If the customer determines the shipment is not needed, the customer will initiate cancellation action according to the procedures in DLM 4000.25-1.
(D) The shipper will finance parcel post shipments between DoD agencies without reimbursement.
(ii)
Other customers (excluding transfer and donation customers).
(A) LEAs are responsible for removing or making arrangements for shipments.
(B) MWRAs not ordering property through a military accountable supply officer, DoD museums, academic institutions, and non-profit organizations for educational purposes, Senior ROTC units and FCAs must pay for transportation costs and must provide a fund citation prior to shipment or pick up of the property.
(C) Only one carrier is authorized per agency, and once the agency has designated a carrier, 30 days notice is required to change a carrier.
(D) FMS customers are responsible for most transportation costs associated with the movement of ordered property.
(
1
) The DLA Disposition Services FMS Office will identify exceptions to this rule. Transportation of sensitive and other critical FMS shipments will be coordinated between the DLA Disposition Services FMS Office, the purchasing country, and other DoD agencies, as required. For these shipments, the DLA Disposition Services FMS Office will provide separate instructions and fund citations.
(
2
) Transportation arrangements will be made by the DLA Disposition Services site or by the supporting transportation office.
(E) HAP orders are shipped by DLA Disposition Services by surface to the central point using the most cost-effective mode (and must remain within the assigned theater). At no time will HAP property be shipped by air unless directed by DLA Disposition Services.
(10)
Shipment or denial notifications.
(i) DLA Disposition Services sites will use
the guidance in DLM 4000.25-1 to prepare materiel release confirmations in response to MROs received from DLA Disposition Services.
(ii) When shipments are complete, DLA Disposition Services sites will furnish a copy of the shipping document to the customer. This document confirms shipment. The customer will notify the DLA Disposition Services site if the property is not received within a reasonable period of time. FCAs will only be provided a copy of the SF 122, with annotation of the transportation data, when arrangements for DLA Disposition Services sites to ship the property have been made in advance.
(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will:
(A) Advise the customer if the property requested is no longer available or of acceptable condition.
(B) Document non-availability by a materiel release denial prepared in accordance with DLM 4000.25-1, if item(s) for an MRO are not available.
(C) Issue a letter for all other non-availability notifications, with a copy to GSA if they approved the order. The letter will contain the following data at a minimum:
(
1
) NSN.
(
2
) Order number.
(
3
) Quantity not available.
(11)
Customer removal of ordered property
—(i)
Identification requirements.
When a customer (DoD election to pick up property ordered from the DLA Disposition Services site or an FCA or donee) makes removal arrangements, the individuals removing the property must be properly identified. Coordinate with DLA Disposition Services prior to arrival to complete and transmit documents for identification.
(A) Upon arrival at the DLA Disposition Services site, the individuals will identify themselves, sign a DLA Disposition Services visitor and vehicle register and indicate on the register the DoDAAC represented (for DoD activities) or AAC represented (for non-DoD activities), and the purpose of the visit.
(B) Visitor and vehicle registers will be readily accessible (see paragraph (c) of this section).
(ii)
Documentation requirements.
(A) Customers will:
(
1
) Present an approved and authenticated DD Form 1348-1A, SF 122, or 123 “Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property,” as appropriate, for specific property. The accountable officer or authorized individual(s) listed in the previously provided authentication letter must sign the DD Form 1348-1A, SF 122, or SF 123.
(
2
) Provide designated carrier or removal agents with a copy of DD Form 1348-1A or SFs 122 or 123, as appropriate, indicating removal authority.
(
i
) DoD customers must have a hard copy of the electronically transmitted letter of authorization prior to removal, and an email response from DLA Disposition Services with verification of personnel authorized to remove property.
(
ii
) Transfer and donation customers must provide a completed letter of authorization to remove property to the DLA Disposition Services site prior to removal for verification purposes.
(B) DLA Disposition Services sites will:
(
1
) Ensure the visitor and vehicle register for each direct issue includes:
(
i
) Name of the individual receiving the property.
(
ii
) DoDAAC or AAC or physical location address.
(
iii
) Activity of the individual receiving the property.
(
2
) Ensure each customer is issued a badge when signing in.
(
3
) Ensure that DD Form 1348-1A or SF 122 or 123 is complete according to MILSTRIP and disposal requirements and is signed by the applicable accountable officer or authorized representative.
(
4
) For DoD walk-in customers, ensure a current letter is on file at the DLA Disposition Services site identifying the accountable officer and authorized individual(s) signing and approving the order.
(
5
) Fill the order.
(
6
) Provide any appropriate disclaimers or certifications of usage or disposal to the customer for signature prior to releasing the property.
(
7
) Furnish a copy of the completed shipping document to the respective accountable officer (record positions 30-35 of DD Form 1348-1A).
(
8
) If being removed by anyone other than the customer, verify that the carrier has valid documentation (a copy of DD Form 1348-1A or SFs 122 or 123, as appropriate) indicating removal authority. Arrange for completion of any disclaimers or certifications of usage or disposal with the customer, prior to releasing the property to the carrier.
(
9
) In case of doubt as to the validity of pickup representatives, DLA Disposition Services sites should contact the accountable officer who prepared the order for DoD activities, or DLA Disposition Services for activities authorized to order as DoD special programs, or the GSA regional office for other FCAs or donees.

# Appendix 1 to § 273.15

# DEMIL Agreement for DEMIL-Required USML Property to FCAs (DEMIL Codes C, D, E, OR F)
ER03NO15.235
ER03NO15.236

# Appendix 2 to § 273.15

# DEMIL Agreement for DEMIL-Required USML Property to Special Programs (DEMIL Codes C, D, E, or F)
ER03NO15.237
ER03NO15.238

# Appendix 3 to § 273.15

# Notification for CCL and Non-DEMIL-Required USML Property to FCAS (DEMIL Codes B and Q)
ER03NO15.239
ER03NO15.240

# Appendix 4 to § 273.15

# Notification for CCL and Non-DEMIL-Required USML Property to Special Programs (DEMIL Codes B and Q)
ER03NO15.241
ER03NO15.242

# Appendix 5 to § 273.15

# Customer Reconfirmation
ER03NO15.243
Pt. 274

# PART 274—REGULATIONS GOVERNING COMPETITIVE BIDDING ON U.S. GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED MILITARY EXPORT LOAN AGREEMENTS
Sec.
274.1
Purpose.
274.2
Definitions.
274.3
Public notice.
274.4
U.S. guaranty.
274.5
Notice of intent to bid.
274.6
Submission of bids.
274.7
Acceptance of bids.
274.8
Bids-revocations-rejections-postponements.
274.9
Delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Treasury.
274.10
Reservations.

# Authority:
Sec. 24, Foreign Military Sales Act (22 U.S.C. 2764) and Executive Order 11501 (34 FR 20169).

# Source:
38 FR 858, Jan. 5, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 274.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this memorandum is to prescribe regulations under which the Secretary of Defense or his designee may, from time to time, by public notice, offer financial institutions the opportunity to bid on the interest rates for the subject agreements. The bids made will be subject to the terms, conditions, and procedures herein set forth, except as they may be supplemented in the public notice or notices issued by the Secretary of Defense or his designee in connection with particular offerings.
§ 274.2
Definitions.
(a) The terms
public notice, notices,
or
announcement
mean the public notice of invitation to bid and any supplementary or amendatory notices or announcements with respect thereto, including, but not limited to, any statement released to the press by the Secretary of Defense or his designee and notices sent to those who have filed notices of intent to bid or who have filed bids.
(b) The term
Loan Agreement
means the proposed agreement between the foreign government and the private U.S. lender as described in the particular notice of Invitation to Bid.
§ 274.3
Public notice.
(a) Bids hereunder will be invited through a public notice issued by the Secretary of Defense or his designee which will prescribe the amount of the loan for which bids are invited, the repayment schedule, the conditions under which bidders may specify the rate of interest, and the date and closing hour for receipt of bids.
(b) Accompanying the notice will be the form of the Loan Agreement which the successful bidder must execute with the borrower, except for those terms which will be subject to bidding.
§ 274.4
U.S. guaranty.
Under section 24 of the Foreign Military Sales Act (22 U.S.C. 2764), any individual, corporation, partnership, or other juridical entity (excluding U.S. Government agencies) will be guaranteed against political and credit risks of nonpayment arising out of their financing of credit sales of defense articles and defense services to friendly countries and international organizations. Section 24 explicitly provides that guarantees thereunder are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fees in the amount of one-fourth of 1 percent of the amount of credits agreed upon shall be charged for such guaranties.
§ 274.5
Notice of intent to bid.
Any individual or organization, syndicates, or other group which intends to submit a bid, must, when required by the notice, give written notice of such intent on the appropriate form at the place and within the time specified in the public notice. Such notice, which shall be given to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 33 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10045, will not constitute a commitment to bid.
§ 274.6
Submission of bids.
(a)
General.
Bids will be received only at the place specified and not later than the time designated in the public notice. Bids shall be irrevocable.
(b)
Interest rates.
Bids must be expressed in terms of rates of interest not to exceed three decimals, for example, 5.125 percent.
(c)
Group bids.
A syndicate or other group submitting a bid must act through a representative who must be a member of the group. The representative must warrant to the Secretary of Defense or his designee, that he has all necessary power and authority to act for each member and to bind the members jointly and severally. In addition to whatever other data may be required by the Secretary of Defense or his designee, in the case of a syndicate, the representative must file, within 1 hour after the time for opening bids, at the place specified in the public notice for receipt of bids a final statement of the composition of the syndicate membership and the amount of each member's underwriting participation.
§ 274.7
Acceptance of bids.
(a)
Opening bids.
Bids will be opened at the time and place specified in the public notice.
(b)
Acceptance of successful bid.
The Secretary of Defense or his designee will notify any successful bidder of acceptance in the manner and form specified in the public notice.
§ 274.8
Bids-revocations-rejections-postponements.
The Secretary of Defense or his designee in his discretion, may (a) revoke the public notice of invitation to bid at any time before opening bids, (b) return all bids unopened either at or prior to the time specified for their opening, (c) reject any or all bids, (d) postpone the time for presentation and opening of bids, and (e) waive any immaterial or obvious defect in any bid. Any action the Secretary of Defense or his designee may take in these respects shall be final. In the event of a postponement, known bidders will be advised thereof and their bids returned unopened.
§ 274.9
Delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Treasury.
There is hereby delegated to the Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Treasury the authority, in the name of and title of the Secretary of the Treasury, to invite bids under this memorandum, to issue, modify and revoke public notices, notices, and announcements concerning such bids, to prescribe additional terms and conditions with respect thereto, consistent with this memorandum, to receive, return, open, reject, and accept bids, and to take such other actions as may be necessary and proper to execute this delegation of authority to implement this memorandum, excluding, however, the issuance of guaranties under § 274.4.
§ 274.10
Reservations.
The Secretary of Defense reserves the right, at any time, or from time to time, to amend, repeal, supplement, revise or withdraw all or any of the provisions of this memorandum.
Pt. 275

# PART 275—RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT
Sec.
275.1
Purpose.
275.2
Definitions.
275.3
Authorization.
275.4
Formal written request.
275.5
Certification.
275.6
Cost reimbursement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 3401,
et seq.

# Source:
84 FR 24708, May 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 275.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to authorize DoD Components to request financial records from a financial institution pursuant to the formal written request procedure authorized by section 1108 of the Act and to set forth the conditions under which such requests may be made.
§ 275.2
Definitions.
The terms used in this part have the same meaning as similar terms used in the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, Title XI of Public Law 95-630.
Act
means the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.
DoD Components
means the law enforcement activities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the
Department of Defense (hereafter referred to as the “DoD Components”).
§ 275.3
Authorization.
The DoD Components are authorized to request financial records of any customer from a financial institution pursuant to a formal written request under the Act only if:
(a) No administrative summons or subpoena authority reasonably appears to be available to the DoD Component to obtain financial records for the purpose for which the records are sought;
(b) There is reason to believe that the records sought are relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry and will further that inquiry;
(c) The request is issued by a supervisory official of a grade designated by the head of the DoD Component. Officials so designated shall not delegate this authority to others;
(d) The request adheres to the requirements set forth in § 275.4; and
(e) The notice requirements required by section 1108(4) of the Act, or the requirements pertaining to the delay of notice in section 1109 of the Act, and described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section are satisfied, except in situations (
e.g.,
section 1113(g)) where no notice is required.
(1) The notice requirements are satisfied when a copy of the request has been served on the customer or mailed to the customer's last known address on or before the date on which the request was made to the financial institution together with the following notice which shall state with reasonable specificity the nature of the law enforcement inquiry: “Records or information concerning your transactions held by the financial institution named in the attached request are being sought by the Department of Defense [or the specific DoD Component] in accordance with the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 for the following purpose:”
(2)(i) Within ten days of service or within fourteen days of mailing of a subpoena, summons, or formal written request, a customer may file a motion to quash an administrative summons or judicial subpoena, or an application to enjoin a Government authority from obtaining financial records pursuant to a formal written request, with copies served upon the Government authority. A motion to quash a judicial subpoena shall be filed in the court that issued the subpoena. A motion to quash an administrative summons or an application to enjoin a Government authority from obtaining records pursuant to a formal written request shall be filed in the appropriate United States District Court. Such motion or application shall contain an affidavit or sworn statement stating:
(A) That the applicant is a customer of the financial institution from which financial records pertaining to said customer have been sought; and
(B) The applicant's reasons for believing that the financial records sought are not relevant to the legitimate law enforcement inquiry stated by the Government authority in its notice, or that there has not been substantial compliance within the provisions of the Act.
(ii) Service shall be made upon a Government authority by delivering or mailing by registered or certified mail a copy of the papers to the person, office, or department specified in the notice which the customer has received a request.
(3) If a customer desires that such records or information not be made available, the customer must:
(i) Fill out the accompanying motion paper and sworn statement or write one of the customer's own, stating that he or she is the customer whose records are being requested by the Government and either giving the reasons the customer believes that the records are not relevant to the legitimate law enforcement inquiry stated in this notice or any other legal basis for objecting to the release of the records.
(ii) File the motion and statement by mailing or delivering them to the clerk at an appropriate United States District Court.
(iii) Serve the Government authority requesting the records by mailing or delivering a copy of the motion and statement to the Government authority.
(iv) Be prepared to go to court and present the customer's position in further detail.
(v) The customer does not need to have a lawyer, although he or she may wish to employ a lawyer to represent the customer and protect the customer's rights.
(4) If the customer does not follow the procedures in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, upon the expiration of ten days from the date of service or fourteen days from the date of mailing of the notice, the records or information requested therein may be made available. The records may be transferred to other Government authorities for legitimate law enforcement inquiries, in which event the customer will be notified after the transfer.
(5) Also, the records or information requested therein may be made available if ten days have expired from the date of service or fourteen days from the date of mailing of the notice and within such time period the customer has not filed a sworn statement and an application to enjoin the Government authority in an appropriate court, or the customer challenge provisions.
§ 275.4
Formal written request.
(a) The formal written request must be in the form of a letter or memorandum to an appropriate official of the financial institution from which financial records are requested. The request shall be signed by the issuing official, and shall set forth that official's name, title, business address, and business phone number. The request shall also contain the following:
(1) The identity of the customer or customers to whom the records pertain;
(2) A reasonable description of the records sought; and
(3) Such additional information which may be appropriate—
e.g.,
the date when the opportunity for the customer to challenge the formal written request expires, the date on which the DoD Component expects to present a certificate of compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, the name and title of the individual (if known) to whom disclosure is to be made.
(b) In cases where customer notice is delayed by court order, a copy of the court order must be attached to the formal written request.
§ 275.5
Certification.
Before obtaining the requested records pursuant to a formal written request described in § 275.4, an official of a rank designated by the head of the requesting DoD Component shall certify in writing to the financial institution that the DoD Component has complied with the applicable provisions of the Act.
§ 275.6
Cost reimbursement.
Cost reimbursement to financial institutions for providing financial records will be made consistent with 12 CFR part 219, subpart A.
Pt. 277

# PART 277—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
Sec.
277.1
Purpose.
277.2
Applicability.
277.3
Policy.
277.4
Responsibilities.
Appendix to Part 277—Program Fraud Civil Remedies

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3807.

# Source:
53 FR 39262, Oct. 6, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 277.1
Purpose.
This part establishes uniform policies, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for implementation of Pub. L. 99-509.
§ 277.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD); the Military Departments; the Office of the Inspector General, Department of Defense (OIG, DoD); the Defense Agencies; and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).
§ 277.3
Policy.
It is DoD policy to redress fraud in DoD programs and operations through the nonexclusive use of Pub. L. 99-509. All DoD Components shall comply with the requirements of this part in using this new remedy. Changes or modifications to this part by implementing organizations are prohibited. Implementing regulations are authorized
only to the extent necessary to effectively carry out the requirements of this part.
§ 277.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The
Inspector General, Department of Defense
(IG, DoD), shall establish procedures for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the “investigating official” as outlined in the appendix of this part.
(b) The
General Counsel, Department of Defense
(GC, DoD), shall:
(1) Establish procedures for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the authority head, Department of Defense, which have been delegated to the GC, DoD, as set forth in appendix of this part.
(2) Establish procedures for carrying out the duties and responsibilities for appointment and support of presiding officers, as set forth in appendix of this part; and
(3) Review and approve the regulations and instructions required by this section to be submitted for approval by the GC, DoD.
(c) The
Secretaries of the Military Departments
shall:
(1) Establish procedures for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the “authority head” and of the “reviewing officials” for their respective Departments, and for obtaining and supporting presiding officers from other Agencies as specified in Office of Personnel Management (OPM) regulations; (see appendix of this part).
(2) Make all regulations or instructions promulgated subject to the approval of the GC, DoD; and
(3) Delegate duties as appropriate.
(d) The
General Counsel of the National Security Agency
(GC, NSA) and the
General Counsel of the Defense Logistics Agency
(GC, DLA) shall be responsible for establishing procedures for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the reviewing officials that have been delegated to them, as stated in appendix of this part. All Regulations or Instructions promulgated pursuant to this part shall be submitted to the GC, DoD.
Pt. 277, App.

# Appendix to Part 277—Program Fraud Civil Remedies

# A. Scope and Purpose
1. The Department of Defense has the authority to impose civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents.
2. This appendix:
a. Establishes administrative policies and procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents;
b. Specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
3. The uniform policies and procedures established by this enclosure are binding on the authorities and authority heads in the Department of Defense and Military Departments. Additional administrative regulations necessary to carry out the requirements of the PFCRA and this part may be written by the authority heads. Any such regulations shall be consistent with the provisions of this appendix.

# B. Definitions

# 1. Adequate Evidence
Information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.

# 2. Authority
a. The Department of Defense, which includes OSD, Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (OJCS), Unified and Specified Commands, Defense Agencies, and DoD Field Activities.
b. The Department of the Army.
c. The Department of the Navy.
d. The Department of the Air Force.

# 3. Authority Head
a. For the Department of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Defense or an official or employee of the Department of Defense or the Military Departments designated in writing by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
b. For the respective Military Departments, the Secretary of the Military Department or an official or employee of the Military Department designated in regulations promulgated by the Secretary to act on behalf of the Secretary.

# 4. Benefit
In the context of statements, anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling status, or loan guarantee.

# 5. Claim
Any request, demand, or submission made as follows:
a. To the authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);
b. To a recipient of property, services, or money from the authority or to a party to a contract with the authority:
(1) For property or services if the United States:
(a) Provided such property or services;
(b) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(c) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States:
(a) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(b) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or
(3) Made to the authority that has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.

# 6. Complaint
The administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under section G., below.

# 7. Defendant
Any person alleged in a complaint under section G., below, to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under Section C., below.

# 8. DoD Criminal Investigative Organizations
The U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command, Naval Security and Investigative Command, U.S. Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and the Defense Criminal Investigative Service.

# 9. Government
The U.S. Government.

# 10. Individual
A natural person.

# 11. Initial Decision
The Written decision of the presiding officer required by section J. or KK., below. This includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion of reconsideration.

# 12. Investigating Official
a. The IG, DoD; or
b. An officer or employee of the OIG designated by the IG;
c. Who, if a member of the Armed Forces of the United States on active duty, is serving in Grade 0-7 or above or, if a civilian employee, is serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for Grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.

# 13. Knows or Has Reason To Know
A person who, with respect to a claim or statement:
a. Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
b. Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
c. Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.

# 14. Makes
Includes the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires, making or made shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.

# 15. Person
Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization, and includes the plural of that term.

# 16. Preponderance of the Evidence
The evidence necessary to support a presiding officer's decision that a violation of the PFCRA has occurred. Evidence that leads to the belief that what is sought to be proved is more likely true than not true.

# 17. Presiding Officer
An officer or employee of the Department of Defense or an employee detailed to the Department of Defense from another agency who:
a. Is selected under 5 U.S.C., chapter 33, pursuant to the competitive examination process applicable to administrative law judges;
b. Is appointed by the authority head of DoD to conduct hearings under this part for cases arising in the Department of Defense or the Military Departments;
c. Is assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable;
d. May not perform duties inconsistent with the duties and responsibilities of a presiding officer;
e. Is entitled to pay prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) independently of ratings and recommendations made by the authority and in accordance with 5 U.S.C., chapters 51 and 53, subchapter III;
f. Is not subject to a performance appraisal pursuant to 5 U.S.C., chapter 43; and
g. May be removed, suspended, furloughed, or reduced in grade or pay only for good cause established and determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) on the record after opportunity for hearing by such Board.

# 18. Representative
An Attorney-at-law duly licensed in any State, commonwealth, territory, the District of Columbia, or foreign country, who enters his or her appearance in writing to represent a party in a proceeding under this part, or an officer, director, or employee of a defendant or of its affiliate.

# 19. Reviewing Official
a. In all cases arising in the Department of Defense and any of the Military Departments, the reviewing official shall be an officer or employee of an authority as follows:
(1) Who is designated by the authority head to make the determination required under section E., below, of this enclosure;
(2) Who, if a member of the Armed Forces of the United States on active duty, is serving in Grade 0-7 or above or, if a civilian employee, is serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for Grade GS-16 under the General Schedule; and
(3) Who is as follows:
(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official;
(b) Not employed in the organizational unit of the authority in which the investigating official is employed; and
(c) Not an official designated to make suspension or debarment decisions.
b. The General Counsel, Defense Logistics Agency (GC, DLA), shall be the reviewing official for all cases involving a claim or statement made to the DLA or any other part of the Department of Defense other than a Military Department or the National Security Agency (NSA). The General Counsel, National Security Agency (GC, NSA), shall be the reviewing official for all cases involving claims or statements made to that Agency. The General Counsel, Defense Logistics Agency (GC, DLA), and GC, NSA, may redelegate their authority to act as reviewing officials to any individual(s) meeting the criteria set out in subparagraph (1) of this section.
c. The authority head of each Military Department shall select a reviewing official, who shall review all cases involving a claim or statement that was made to their Department.

# 20. Statement
Any written representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, accounting, or bookkeeping entry made:
a. With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
b. With respect to (including relating to eligibility for):
(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from the authority, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party; if the U.S. Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the U.S. Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.

# C. Basis for Civil Penalties and Assessments

# 1. Claims
a. Any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know:
(1) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(2) Includes or is supported by a written statement that asserts a material fact that is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(3) Includes or is supported by any written statement that:
(a) Omits a material fact;
(b) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(c) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(4) Is for payment for the provision of property or services that the person had not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such claim.
b. Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
c. A claim shall be considered made to an authority, recipient, or party when such claim is received by an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of such authority, recipient, or party.
d. Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, service, or money is actually delivered or paid.
e. If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under subparagraph a.(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount
of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of subparagraph a.(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.

# 2. Statements
a. Any person who makes a written statement that:
(1) The person knows or has reason to know the following:
(a) Asserts a material fact that is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(b) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(2) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each statement.
b. Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
c. A statement shall be considered made to an authority when such statement is received by an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of such authority.
3. No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
