The contract center staff shall hold a program planning conference with a sentenced inmate who has drug aftercare as a condition of release. At this meeting, held within one week of the inmate's arrival at the center, plans are made for the inmate to receive drug counseling. The meeting is attended by center staff, the inmate, and the Chief U.S. Probation Officer or designee.

# Subpart F—Drug Abuse Treatment Program

# Source:
74 FR 1897, Jan. 14, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.50
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this subpart is to describe the Bureau's drug abuse treatment programs for the inmate population, to include drug abuse education, non-residential drug abuse treatment services, and residential drug abuse treatment programs (RDAP). These services are provided by Psychology Services department.
[81 FR 24490, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 550.51
Drug abuse education course.
(a)
Purpose of the drug abuse education course.
All institutions provide a drug abuse education course to:
(1) Inform inmates of the consequences of drug/alcohol abuse and addiction; and
(2) Motivate inmates needing drug abuse treatment to apply for further drug abuse treatment, both while incarcerated and after release.
(b)
Course placement.
(1) Inmates will get primary consideration for course placement if they were sentenced or returned to custody as a violator after September 30, 1991, when unit and/or drug abuse treatment staff determine, through interviews and file review that:
(i) There is evidence that alcohol or other drug use contributed to the commission of the offense;
(ii) Alcohol or other drug use was a reason for violation either of supervised release (including parole) or Bureau community status;
(iii) There was a recommendation (or evaluation) for drug programming during incarceration by the sentencing judge; or
(iv) There is evidence of a history of alcohol or other drug use.
(2) Inmates may also be considered for course placement if they request to participate in the drug abuse education program but do not meet the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Inmates may not be considered for course placement if they:
(i) Do not have enough time remaining to serve to complete the course; or
(ii) Volunteer for, enter or otherwise complete a RDAP.
(c)
Consent.
Inmates will only be admitted to the drug abuse education course if they agree to comply with all Bureau requirements for the program.
(d)
Completion.
To complete the drug abuse education course, inmates must attend and participate during course sessions and pass a final course exam. Inmates will ordinarily have at least three chances to pass the final course exam before they lose privileges or the effects of non-participation occur (see paragraph (e) of this section).
(e)
Effects of non-participation.
(1) If inmates considered for placement under paragraph (b)(1) of this section refuse participation, withdraw, are expelled, or otherwise fail to meet attendance and examination requirements, such inmates:
(i) Are not eligible for performance pay above maintenance pay level, or for bonus pay, or vacation pay; and
(ii) Are not eligible for a Federal Prison Industries work program assignment (unless the Warden makes an exception on the basis of work program labor needs).
(2) The Warden may make exceptions to the provisions of this section for good cause.
§ 550.52
Non-residential drug abuse treatment services.
All institutions must have non-residential drug abuse treatment services, provided through the institution's Psychology Services department. These services are available to inmates who voluntarily decide to participate.
§ 550.53
Residential Drug Abuse Treatment Program (RDAP).
(a)
RDAP.
To successfully complete the RDAP, inmates must complete each of the following components:
(1)
Unit-based component.
Inmates must complete a course of activities provided by the Psychology Services Department in a treatment unit set apart from the general prison population. This component must last at least six months.
(2)
Follow-up services.
If time allows between completion of the unit-based component of the RDAP and transfer to a community-based program, inmates must participate in the follow-up services to the unit-based component of the RDAP.
(3)
Community Treatment Services (CTS).
Inmates who have completed the unit-based program and (when appropriate) the follow-up treatment and transferred to a community-based program must complete CTS to have successfully completed RDAP and receive incentives. The Warden, on the basis of his or her discretion, may find an inmate ineligible for participation in a community-based program; therefore, the inmate cannot complete RDAP.
(b)
Admission criteria.
Inmates must meet all of the following criteria to be admitted into RDAP.
(1) Inmates must have a verifiable substance use disorder.
(2) Inmates must sign an agreement acknowledging program responsibility.
(3) When beginning the program, the inmate must be able to complete all three components described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Application to RDAP.
Inmates may apply for the RDAP by submitting requests to a staff member (ordinarily, a member of the unit team or the Drug Abuse Program Coordinator).
(d)
Referral to RDAP.
Inmates will be identified for referral and evaluation for RDAP by unit or drug treatment staff.
(e)
Placement in RDAP.
The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator decides whether to place inmates in RDAP based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Completing the unit-based component of RDAP.
To complete the unit-based component of RDAP, inmates
must have satisfactory attendance and participation in all RDAP activities.
(g)
Expulsion from RDAP.
(1) Inmates may be removed from the program by the Drug Abuse Program Coordinator because of disruptive behavior related to the program or unsatisfactory progress in treatment.
(2) Ordinarily, inmates must be given at least one formal warning before removal from RDAP. A formal warning is not necessary when the documented lack of compliance with program standards is of such magnitude that an inmate's continued presence would create an immediate and ongoing problem for staff and other inmates.
(3) We may return an inmate who withdraws or is removed from RDAP to his/her prior institution (if we had transferred the inmate specifically to participate in RDAP).
(h)
Effects of non-participation.
(1) If inmates refuse to participate in RDAP, withdraw, or are otherwise removed, they are not eligible for:
(i) A furlough (other than possibly an emergency furlough);
(ii) Performance pay above maintenance pay level, bonus pay, or vacation pay; and/or
(iii) A Federal Prison Industries work program assignment (unless the Warden makes an exception on the basis of work program labor needs).
(2) Refusal, withdrawal, and/or expulsion will be a factor to consider in determining length of community confinement.
(3) Where applicable, staff will notify the United States Parole Commission of inmates' needs for treatment and any failure to participate in the RDAP.
[74 FR 1897, Jan. 14, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 24490, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 550.54
Incentives for RDAP participation.
(a) An inmate may receive incentives for his or her satisfactory participation in the RDAP. Institutions may offer the basic incentives described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Bureau-authorized institutions may also offer enhanced incentives as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Basic incentives.
(i) Limited financial awards, based upon the inmate's achievement/completion of program phases.
(ii) Consideration for the maximum period of time in a community-based treatment program, if the inmate is otherwise eligible.
(iii) Local institution incentives such as preferred living quarters or special recognition privileges.
(iv) Early release, if eligible under § 550.55.
(2)
Enhanced incentives.
(i) Tangible achievement awards as permitted by the Warden and allowed by the regulations governing personal property (see 28 CFR part 553).
(ii) Photographs of treatment ceremonies may be sent to the inmate's family.
(iii) Formal consideration for a nearer release transfer for medium and low security inmates.
(b) An inmate must meet his/her financial program responsibility obligations (see 28 CFR part 545) and GED responsibilities (see 28 CFR part 544) before being able to receive an incentive for his/her RDAP participation.
(c) If an inmate withdraws from or is otherwise removed from RDAP, that inmate may lose incentives he/she previously achieved.
§ 550.55
Eligibility for early release.
(a)
Eligibility.
Inmates may be eligible for early release by a period not to exceed twelve months if they:
(1) Were sentenced to a term of imprisonment under either:
(i) 18 U.S.C. Chapter 227, Subchapter D for a nonviolent offense; or
(ii) D.C. Code § 24-403.01 for a nonviolent offense, meaning an offense other than those included within the definition of “crime of violence” in D.C. Code § 23-1331(4); and
(2) Successfully complete a RDAP, as described in § 550.53, during their current commitment.
(b)
Inmates not eligible for early release.
As an exercise of the Director's discretion, the following categories of inmates are not eligible for early release:
(1) Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainees;
(2) Pretrial inmates;
(3) Contractual boarders (for example, State or military inmates);
(4) Inmates who have a prior felony or misdemeanor conviction within the ten years prior to the date of sentencing for their current commitment for:
(i) Homicide (including deaths caused by recklessness, but not including deaths caused by negligence or justifiable homicide);
(ii) Forcible rape;
(iii) Robbery;
(iv) Aggravated assault;
(v) Arson;
(vi) Kidnaping; or
(vii) An offense that by its nature or conduct involves sexual abuse offenses committed upon minors;
(5) Inmates who have a current felony conviction for:
(i) An offense that has as an element, the actual, attempted, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another;
(ii) An offense that involved the carrying, possession, or use of a firearm or other dangerous weapon or explosives (including any explosive material or explosive device);
(iii) An offense that, by its nature or conduct, presents a serious potential risk of physical force against the person or property of another; or
(iv) An offense that, by its nature or conduct, involves sexual abuse offenses committed upon minors;
(6) Inmates who have been convicted of an attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit an underlying offense listed in paragraph (b)(4) and/or (b)(5) of this section; or
(7) Inmates who previously received an early release under 18 U.S.C. 3621(e).
(c)
Early release time-frame.
(1) Inmates so approved may receive early release up to twelve months prior to the expiration of the term of incarceration, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Under the Director's discretion allowed by 18 U.S.C. 3621(e), we may limit the time-frame of early release based upon the length of sentence imposed by the Court.
(3) If inmates cannot fulfill their community-based treatment obligations by the presumptive release date, we may adjust provisional release dates by the least amount of time necessary to allow inmates to fulfill their treatment obligations.
[74 FR 1897, Jan. 14, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 24490, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 550.56
Community Treatment Services (CTS).
(a) For inmates to successfully complete all components of RDAP, they must participate in CTS. If inmates refuse or fail to complete CTS, they fail RDAP and are disqualified for any additional incentives.
(b) Inmates with a documented drug use problem who did not choose to participate in RDAP may be required to participate in CTS as a condition of participation in a community-based program, with the approval of the Supervisory Community Treatment Services Coordinator.
[81 FR 24490, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 550.57
Inmate appeals.
Inmates may seek formal review of complaints regarding the operation of the drug abuse treatment program by using administrative remedy procedures in 28 CFR part 542.
Pt. 551

# PART 551—MISCELLANEOUS

# Subpart A—Grooming
Sec.
551.1
Policy.
551.2
Mustaches and beards.
551.3
Hairpieces.
551.4
Hair length.
551.5
Restrictions and exceptions.
551.6
Personal hygiene.
551.7
Bathing and clothing.

# Subpart B—Marriages of Inmates
551.10
Purpose and scope.
551.11
Authority to approve a marriage.
551.12
Eligibility to marry.
551.13
Application to marry.
551.14
Special circumstances.
551.15
Furloughs.
551.16
Marriage ceremony in the institution.

# Subpart C—Birth Control, Pregnancy, Child Placement, and Abortion
551.20
Purpose and scope.
551.21
Birth control.
551.22
Pregnancy.
551.23
Abortion.
551.24
Child placement.

# Subpart D—Inmate Organizations
551.30
Purpose and scope.
551.31
Approval of an organization.
551.32
Staff supervision.
551.33
Dues.
551.34
Organization activities.
551.35
Withdrawal of approval of an organization.
551.36
Funding.

# Subpart E—Inmate Contributions
551.50
Policy.

# Subpart F—Volunteer Community Service Projects
551.60
Volunteer community service projects.

# Subpart G—Administering of Polygraph Test
551.70
Purpose and scope.
551.71
Procedures.

# Subpart H—Inmate Manuscripts
551.80
Definition.
551.81
Manuscript preparation.
551.82
Mailing inmate manuscripts.
551.83
Limitations on an inmate's accumulation of manuscript material.

# Subpart I—Non-Discrimination Toward Inmates
551.90
Policy.

# Subpart J—Pretrial Inmates
551.100
Purpose and scope.
551.101
Definitions.
551.102
Commitment prior to arraignment.
551.103
Procedure for admission.
551.104
Housing.
551.105
Custody.
551.106
Institutional employment.
551.107
Pretrial inmate reviews.
551.108
Performance pay.
551.109
Community activities.
551.110
Religious programs.
551.111
Marriage.
551.112
Education.
551.113
Counseling.
551.114
Medical, psychiatric and psychological.
551.115
Recreation.
551.116
Discipline.
551.117
Access to legal resources.
551.118
Property.
551.119
Release of funds and property of pretrial inmates.
551.120
Visiting.
Subparts K-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Victim and/or Witness Notification
551.150
Purpose and scope.
551.151
Definitions.
551.152
Procedures.
551.153
Cancelling the notification request.

# Subpart N—Smoking/No Smoking Areas
551.160
Purpose and scope.
551.161
Definitions.
551.162
Smoking generally prohibited.
551.163
Possession of smoking apparatus and tobacco prohibited.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 1512, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4005, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; Pub. L. 99-500 (sec. 209); Attorney General's May 1, 1995 Guidelines for Victim and Witness Assistance.

# Source:
44 FR 38252, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Grooming
§ 551.1
Policy.
The Bureau of Prisons permits an inmate to select the hair style of personal choice, and expects personal cleanliness and dress in keeping with standards of good grooming and the security, good order, and discipline of the institution.
§ 551.2
Mustaches and beards.
An inmate may wear a mustache or beard or both. The Warden shall require an inmate with a beard to wear a beard covering when working in food service or where a beard could result in increased likelihood of work injury.
[46 FR 59509, Dec. 4, 1981]
§ 551.3
Hairpieces.
Inmates may not wear wigs or artificial hairpieces, unless medical authorization to do so is approved by the Warden.
[55 FR 40354, Oct. 2, 1990]
§ 551.4
Hair length.
(a) The Warden may not restrict hair length if the inmate keeps it neat and clean.
(b) The Warden shall require an inmate with long hair to wear a cap or hair net when working in food service or where long hair could result in increased likelihood of work injury.
(c) The Warden shall make available to an inmate hair care services which comply with applicable health and sanitation requirements.
[44 FR 38252, June 29, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 59509, Dec. 4, 1981]
§ 551.5
Restrictions and exceptions.
The Warden may impose restrictions or exceptions for documented medical reasons.
§ 551.6
Personal hygiene.
The Warden shall make available to an inmate those articles necessary for maintaining personal hygiene.
[46 FR 59509, Dec. 4, 1981]
§ 551.7
Bathing and clothing.
Each inmate must observe the standards concerning bathing and clothing that exist in the institution as required by standards of § 551.1.
[46 FR 59509, Dec. 4, 1981]

# Subpart B—Marriages of Inmates

# Source:
49 FR 18385, Apr. 30, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.10
Purpose and scope.
The Warden shall approve an inmate's request to marry except where a legal restriction to the marriage exists, or where the proposed marriage presents a threat to the security or good order of the institution, or to the protection of the public. The Warden may approve the use of institution facilities for an inmate's marriage ceremony. If a marriage ceremony poses a threat to the security or good order of the institution, the Warden may disapprove a marriage ceremony in the institution.
[49 FR 18385, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 63 FR 5218, Jan. 30, 1998]
§ 551.11
Authority to approve a marriage.
(a) The Warden may approve the marriage of a federal inmate confined in a federal institution. This authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
(b) The appropriate Community Corrections Manager may approve the request to marry of a federal inmate who is not confined in a federal institution (for example, a federal inmate who is in a community corrections center, in home confinement, in state custody, or in a local detention facility).
[49 FR 18385, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 58248, Oct. 29, 1993]
§ 551.12
Eligibility to marry.
An inmate's request to marry shall be approved provided:
(a) The inmate is legally eligible to marry;
(b) The inmate is mentally competent;
(c) The intended spouse has verified, ordinarily in writing, an intention to marry the inmate; and
(d) The marriage poses no threat to institution security or good order, or to the protection of the public.
§ 551.13
Application to marry.
(a) A federal inmate confined in a Bureau institution who wants to get married shall submit a request to marry to the inmate's unit team. The unit team shall evaluate the request based on the criteria identified in § 551.12. A written report of the unit team's findings, and its recommendation, shall be forwarded to the Warden for a final decision.
(b) The Warden shall notify the inmate in writing whether the inmate's request to marry is approved or disapproved. A copy of this notification shall be placed in the inmate's central file. When the Warden's decision is to disapprove the inmate's request, the notification to the inmate shall include a statement of reason(s) for that action. The Warden shall advise the inmate that the decision may be appealed through the Administrative Remedy Procedure.
(c) All expenses of the marriage (for example, a marriage license) shall be paid by the inmate, the inmate's intended spouse, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden. The Warden may not permit appropriated funds to be used for an inmate marriage.
§ 551.14
Special circumstances.
(a)
Detainers and pending charges.
Staff review of a marriage request from an inmate who has a detainer(s) and/or a pending charge(s) shall include an assessment of the legal effects of the marriage on these actions. For example, an inmate could request to marry a potential witness in litigation pending against that inmate. Approving this marriage could affect the status of this litigation.
(b)
Pretrial inmates.
A pretrial inmate may request permission to marry in accordance with the provisions of this rule. Staff shall contact the court, U.S. Attorney, and in the case of an alien, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to advise of the marriage request of the pretrial inmate and to request their comments.
(c)
Federal inmates not in Federal institutions.
A federal inmate who is not confined in a federal institution who wants to get married shall submit a request to the appropriate Community Corrections Manager. Prior to making a decision on the inmate's request, the Community Corrections Manager shall advise the confining authority of the inmate's request and ask that information on the criteria identified in § 551.12 be furnished.
[49 FR 18385, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 58248, Oct. 29, 1993]
§ 551.15
Furloughs.
An inmate whose request to marry is approved, and who also meets the Bureau's criteria for furlough (see part 570, subpart C), may be considered for a furlough for the purpose of getting married.
§ 551.16
Marriage ceremony in the institution.
(a) The Warden may approve the use of institution facilities for an inmate's marriage ceremony. If a marriage ceremony poses a threat to the security or good order of the institution, the Warden may disapprove a marriage ceremony in the institution. The Warden may not delegate the authority to approve or to disapprove a marriage ceremony in the institution below the level of Acting Warden.
(b) Expenses for a marriage ceremony in the institution shall be paid by the inmate, the inmate's intended spouse, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden. The Warden may not permit appropriated funds to be used for the marriage ceremony, except for those inherent in providing the place and supervision for the event. Upon request of the inmate, Bureau of Prisons or community clergy, or a justice of the peace may be authorized to assist in a marriage ceremony at the institution.
(1) The marriage ceremony may be performed by Bureau of Prisons or community clergy, or by a justice of the peace.
(2) Because of ecclesiastical constraints, Bureau of Prisons chaplains may decline to perform the marriage ceremony. Upon request of the inmate, a Bureau chaplain will assist that inmate in preparing for an approved marriage; for example, by providing, or arranging for an inmate to receive, pre-nuptial marriage counseling.
(c) The Warden shall require that a marriage ceremony at the institution be a private ceremony conducted without media publicity.

# Subpart C—Birth Control, Pregnancy, Child Placement, and Abortion
§ 551.20
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides an inmate with medical and social services related to birth control, pregnancy, child placement, and abortion. The Warden shall ensure compliance with the applicable law regarding these matters.
§ 551.21
Birth control.
Medical staff shall provide an inmate with advice and consultation about methods for birth control and, where medically appropriate, prescribe and provide methods for birth control.
§ 551.22
Pregnancy.
(a) The Warden shall ensure that each pregnant inmate is provided medical, case management, and counseling services.
(b) In order to ensure proper medical and social services, the inmate shall inform the institution medical staff as soon as she suspects she is pregnant.
(c) Medical staff shall arrange for the childbirth to take place at a hospital outside the institution.
[44 FR 38252, June 29, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 62968, Dec. 6, 1994]
§ 551.23
Abortion.
(a) The inmate has the responsibility to decide either to have an abortion or to bear the child.
(b) The Warden shall offer to provide each pregnant inmate with medical, religious, and social counseling to aid her in making the decision whether to carry the pregnancy to full term or to have an elective abortion. If an inmate chooses to have an abortion, she shall sign a statement to that effect. The inmate shall sign a written statement acknowledging that she has been provided the opportunity for the counseling and information called for in this policy.
(c) Upon receipt of the inmate's written statements required by paragraph (b) of this section, ordinarily submitted through the unit manager, the Clinical Director shall arrange for an abortion to take place.
[51 FR 47178, Dec. 30, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 62968, Dec. 6, 1994]
§ 551.24
Child placement.
(a) The Warden may not permit the inmate's new born child to return to the institution except in accordance with the Bureau of Prisons policy governing visiting.
(b) Child placement is the inmate's responsibility. The Warden shall provide opportunities for counseling by institution staff and community social agencies to aid the inmate with placement.
(c) The institution staff shall work closely with community agencies and persons to ensure the child is appropriately placed. The staff shall give notice to the responsible community agency of the inmate's plan for her child. Child welfare workers may come to the institution in appropriate cases to interview and counsel an inmate.
[44 FR 38252, June 29, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 47179, Dec. 30, 1986; 59 FR 62968, Dec. 6, 1994]

# Subpart D—Inmate Organizations

# Source:
61 FR 11275, Mar. 19, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons permits inmates and persons in the community to participate in approved inmate organizations for recreational, social, civic, and benevolent purposes.
§ 551.31
Approval of an organization.
(a) An inmate must submit a request for recognition of a proposed inmate organization to the Warden. The organization may not become active without the Warden's approval.
(b) The Warden may approve an inmate organization upon determining that:
(1) The organization has a constitution and bylaws duly approved by its members; the constitution and bylaws must include the organization's purpose and objectives, the duties and responsibilities of its officer(s), and the requirements for activities reporting and operational review; and
(2) The organization does not operate in opposition to the security, good order, or discipline of the institution.
§ 551.32
Staff supervision.
(a) The Warden shall appoint a staff member as the institution's Inmate Organization Manager (IOM). The IOM shall be responsible for monitoring the activities of the institution's inmate organizations and staff sponsors.
(b) The Warden or designee shall assign to a staff sponsor responsibility for supervising the activities of an individual inmate organization. The staff sponsor's duties are performed while in official duty status.
§ 551.33
Dues.
Dues may be collected if they are required by the national organization, are collected by that same national organization, and the rate and method of
institution collection have been approved by the Warden. No portion of the dues may be kept by the inmate organization for use at the institution. The organization may not make payment of dues a requirement of membership for an inmate who lacks funds.
§ 551.34
Organization activities.
(a) An officer of the inmate organization must submit a written request for approval of an activity to the Warden or designee. Activities include, but are not limited to, meetings, guest speakers, sports competitions, banquets, or community programs. Activities may not include fund-raising projects. The request must specifically include:
(1) Name of the organization;
(2) Nature or purpose of the activity;
(3) Date, time, and estimated duration of the activity;
(4) Estimated cost;
(5) Information concerning guest participation; and
(6) Other pertinent information requested by the Warden.
(b) The Warden may approve the request if the activity:
(1) Does not conflict with scheduled inmate work or program activities;
(2) Has confirmation of staff supervision;
(3) Can be appropriately funded when applicable (see § 551.36); and
(4) Does not conflict with the security, good order, or discipline of the institution.
(c) When an activity requires the expenditure of government funds, the Warden ordinarily shall require reimbursement from non-inmate participants (guests or members).
(d) Each inmate organization shall be responsible for maintaining accurate records of its activities.
(e) The activities of an inmate organization may be suspended temporarily due to noncompliance with Bureau policy. The IOM is responsible for recommending the specific suspension sanction for the Warden's approval. The inmate organization is to receive written notice of the proposed suspension sanction and shall have the opportunity to respond to the Warden. Continued noncompliance with Bureau policy shall result in an increase in the severity of the suspension sanction, and may include withdrawal of approval of the organization.
§ 551.35
Withdrawal of approval of an organization.
The Warden may withdraw approval of an inmate organization for reasons of the security, good order, and discipline of the institution, or in accordance with § 551.34(e).
§ 551.36
Funding.
The Bureau of Prisons may fund approved activities of inmate organizations or organization requests for purchase of equipment or services for all inmates subject to the availability of designated funds.

# Subpart E—Inmate Contributions
§ 551.50
Policy.
(a) An inmate may contribute to a candidate for election to a federal, state or local office, in a primary, general, or special election.
(b) An inmate may contribute to any international, national or local organization, including political parties, so long as the contribution does not violate any law or regulation.

# Subpart F—Volunteer Community Service Projects
§ 551.60
Volunteer community service projects.
(a) A volunteer community service project is a project sponsored and developed by local government or by a nonprofit charitable organization, submitted to the institution, and recommended by the Warden for approval of the Regional Director. Volunteer community service projects are designed to provide for the public good in keeping with the overall goals of the community, such as community-wide beautification or public safety. The sponsoring organization is responsible for certifying to the Bureau that the community service project does not displace regular employees, supplant employment opportunities ordinarily available within the sponsoring organization, or impair contracts for services.
These projects are not work assignments. Any inmate who chooses to participate does so voluntarily, and may not receive performance pay or any other salaried compensation for participation in the project, nor be eligible to submit a claim under the provisions of the Inmate Accident Compensation Program.
(b) An inmate may volunteer to participate in a community service project by submitting a written request for the Warden's approval. The inmate must have custody classification appropriate for the project and be otherwise eligible for the conditions of the project. The decision of the Warden to approve or disapprove an inmate's request shall be documented in writing.
(c) An inmate may appeal the Warden's decision through the Administrative Remedy Procedure (see 28 CFR part 542).
[58 FR 5210, Jan. 19, 1993]

# Subpart G—Administering of Polygraph Test
§ 551.70
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons cooperates with law enforcement officials and other authorized individuals in the performance of their duties by permitting them to administer polygraph tests to an inmate if the inmate consents to the testing.
§ 551.71
Procedures.
(a) The Warden may permit polygraph tests in connection with a State or Federal criminal felony investigation.
(b) The Warden may permit polygraph tests in connection with misdemeanor offenses, civil proceedings, or any other matters. This type of request, however, is generally disapproved, absent a federal court order for the test.
(c) The Warden may permit a polygraph test at the request of a defense counsel or other representative of the inmate. These requests are subject to the same standards and procedures applicable to testing by law enforcement officials.
(d) The Warden may deny any request for testing which may disrupt the security or good order of the institution.
(e) Upon written request to conduct a polygraph examination of an inmate, the Warden may approve the request if:
(1) The validity of the request and of the examining agency can be confirmed;
(2) The request complies with this section; and
(3) The inmate gives written consent to the testing.
(f) If the request is approved, the Warden shall notify the requestor that he is responsible for meeting all state and local requirements in administering the test.
(g) The Bureau of Prisons maintains a record in the inmate's central file of the polygraph test indicating the inmate's consent and the time and place of and the personnel involved in the testing.

# Subpart H—Inmate Manuscripts
§ 551.80
Definition.
As used in this rule,
manuscript
means fiction, nonfiction, poetry, music and lyrics, drawings and cartoons, and other writings of a similar nature.
§ 551.81
Manuscript preparation.
An inmate may prepare a manuscript for private use or for publication while in custody without staff approval. The inmate may use only non-work time to prepare a manuscript.
§ 551.82
Mailing inmate manuscripts.
An inmate may mail a manuscript as general correspondence, in accordance with part 540, subpart B of this chapter. An inmate may not circulate his manuscript within the institution.
§ 551.83
Limitations on an inmate's accumulation of manuscript material.
The Warden may limit, for housekeeping, fire-prevention, or security reasons, the amount of accumulated inmate manuscript material.

# Subpart I—Non-Discrimination Toward Inmates
§ 551.90
Policy.
Bureau staff shall not discriminate against inmates on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or political belief. This includes the making of administrative decisions and providing access to work, housing and programs.
[63 FR 55774, Oct. 16, 1998]

# Subpart J—Pretrial Inmates

# Source:
59 FR 60285, Nov. 22, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.100
Purpose and scope.
In addition to convicted inmates, the Bureau of Prisons houses persons who have not been convicted. Procedures and practices required for the care, custody, and control of such inmates may differ from those established for convicted inmates. Pretrial inmates will be separated, to the extent practicable, from convicted inmates. Except as specified by this rule, policies and standards applicable to persons committed to the custody of the Attorney General or the Bureau of Prisons apply also to pretrial inmates as defined in § 551.101.
§ 551.101
Definitions.
(a)
Pretrial inmate.
For purpose of this rule, “pretrial inmate” means a person who is legally detained but for whom the Bureau of Prisons has not received notification of conviction. Thus, “pretrial inmate” ordinarily includes a person awaiting trial, being tried, or awaiting a verdict.
(1)
Civil contempt, deportable aliens, or material witnesses.
For purpose of this rule, an inmate committed for civil contempt, or as a deportable alien, or as a material witness is considered a pretrial inmate.
(2)
Mental evaluation or treatment.
An inmate committed under Title 18 U.S.C. Sections 4241 (b) and (d), 4242(a), or 4243(b) is considered to be a pretrial inmate, whereas commitments under Sections 4243(e), 4244, 4245 or 4246 are treated as convicted inmates.
(3)
Concurrent federal and state sentences.
For purpose of this rule, an inmate in a status described in paragraph (a) introductory text, (a)(1), or (a)(2) of this section and who is at the same time serving a state or federal sentence is not considered a pretrial inmate.
(b)
Convicted inmate.
For purposes of this rule, an individual a court has found guilty of an offense punishable by law.
§ 551.102
Commitment prior to arraignment.
On receipt of a U.S. Marshal remand, the Bureau of Prisons shall accept an individual who has not been arraigned for commitment as a pretrial inmate, provided that the institution has appropriate detention facilities available for that individual.
§ 551.103
Procedure for admission.
Staff in administrative institutions or institutions with administrative components housing U.S. Marshals' prisoners shall establish procedures for admitting a pretrial inmate which include, but are not limited to:
(a) Verification of commitment papers;
(b) Search of the inmate;
(c) Photographing and fingerprinting;
(d) Disposition of clothing and personal possessions;
(e) Intake screening (including Notice of Separation);
(f) Providing institution guidelines governing telephone calls (including procedures for making unmonitored calls to an attorney);
(g) Provisions for personal hygiene, to include:
(1) Issue of personal hygiene items;
(2) Issue of clean clothing; and
(3) Opportunity for shower and hair care;
(h) Orientation;
(i) Opportunity for waiver of right not to work;
(j) Assignment to an appropriate housing unit.
§ 551.104
Housing.
To the extent practicable, pretrial inmates will be housed separately from convicted inmates.
§ 551.105
Custody.
(a) Staff ordinarily will supervise a pretrial inmate as if classified “In” custody.
(b) Where circumstances warrant, staff may supervise a pretrial inmate according to procedures for other custody levels.
§ 551.106
Institutional employment.
Unless a pretrial inmate signs a waiver of his or her right not to work, the Warden may not require the inmate to work in any assignment other than housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area.
§ 551.107
Pretrial inmate reviews.
Staff shall conduct regular reviews of a pretrial inmate's status.
(a) Each pretrial inmate shall be scheduled for an initial review by the unit team within 21 calendar days of the inmate's first arrival at the institution, and subsequent reviews shall be conducted at least every 90 days.
(b) The inmate shall be notified at least 48 hours prior to the inmate's scheduled review.
(c) A pretrial inmate is expected to attend these reviews. If the inmate refuses to appear, staff shall document in the record of the meeting the inmate's refusal and, if known, the reason for refusal.
(d) Inmate reviews are to be documented on the Pretrial Inmate Review Report.
§ 551.108
Performance pay.
The Warden may approve a pretrial inmate for performance pay and special awards.
§ 551.109
Community activities.
(a) The Warden may not grant a furlough to a pretrial inmate (18 U.S.C. § 3622).
(b) In an emergency, staff shall facilitate contact with the pretrial inmate's attorney of record, who may seek from the court a decision concerning release from custody or an escorted trip.
(c) Except by order of the court, a pretrial inmate may not be considered for participation in community programs.
§ 551.110
Religious programs.
(a) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to participate in religious programs with convicted inmates.
(b) Staff shall ensure that pretrial inmates who do not participate in religious programs with convicted inmates have access to other religious programs.
§ 551.111
Marriage.
A pretrial inmate may request permission to marry in accordance with current Bureau of Prisons policy for convicted inmates. Staff shall contact the court, U.S. Attorney, U.S. Marshals Service, and in the case of an alien, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to advise of the marriage request of the pretrial inmate and to request their comments.
§ 551.112
Education.
(a) A pretrial inmate may participate in correspondence and self-study educational courses. Institutional staff may also arrange for educational assistance to the pretrial inmate through the use of contract personnel or community volunteers.
(b) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to have access to the institution's educational program.
§ 551.113
Counseling.
(a) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to receive counseling services with convicted inmates.
(b) Staff shall ensure that pretrial inmates who do not receive counseling services with convicted inmates have access to other counseling services.
§ 551.114
Medical, psychiatric and psychological.
(a) Staff shall provide the pretrial inmate with the same level of basic medical (including dental), psychiatric, and psychological care provided to convicted inmates.
(b) Staff shall advise the court, through the U.S. Marshal, of medication the pretrial inmate receives which may alter the inmate's courtroom behavior.
(c) In event of serious illness or death of a pretrial inmate, staff shall notify the committing court, U.S. Marshal, U.S. Attorney's Office, the inmate's attorney of record, and the designated family member or next of kin.
§ 551.115
Recreation.
(a) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to participate with convicted inmates in recreational activities. Staff shall ensure that inmates who do not participate in recreational activities with convicted inmates have access to other recreational activities.
(b) At a minimum, and except as noted in paragraph (d) of this section, staff shall provide the pretrial inmate with the following recreational opportunities:
(1) One hour daily of outside recreation, weather permitting; or
(2) Two hours daily of indoor recreation.
(c) Staff shall make recreation equipment available to the pretrial inmate including, but not limited to, physical exercise equipment, books, table games, and television.
(d) Staff shall provide the pretrial inmate housed in Administrative Detention or Disciplinary Segregation with exercise as provided by the Bureau of Prisons rules on Inmate Discipline. (See 28 CFR part 541, subpart B.)
(e) Provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section must be carried out unless compelling security or safety reasons dictate otherwise. Institution staff shall document these reasons.
§ 551.116
Discipline.
(a) Staff shall require the pretrial inmate to abide by Bureau of Prisons rules on Inmate Discipline (see 28 CFR part 541, subpart B), subject to the limitations of § 551.106 of this part.
(b) Staff shall advise the court, through the U.S. Marshal, of repeated or serious disruptive behavior by a pretrial inmate.
§ 551.117
Access to legal resources.
(a) The Warden shall provide the opportunity for pretrial inmate-attorney visits on a seven-days-a-week basis.
(b) Staff shall provide pretrial inmates with access to legal materials in the institution.
(c) Staff shall allow the pretrial inmate, upon the inmate's request, to telephone the inmate's attorney as often as resources of the institution allow.
§ 551.118
Property.
(a) A pretrial inmate may retain personal property as authorized for convicted inmates housed in administrative detention units. (See 28 CFR part 541, subpart B.)
(b) Staff may store the pretrial inmate's unauthorized personal property until the individual is released, transferred to another facility, or sentenced and committed to a federal institution.
(c) Staff may supply the pretrial inmate with clothing for court appearances, or the inmate may supply his or her own.
§ 551.119
Release of funds and property of pretrial inmates.
(a) Staff shall establish procedures which allow for the release of funds and personal property to pretrial inmates released during other than normal business hours.
(b) Staff shall ensure that pretrial inmates are informed of existing policy relative to the commissary account and the deposit/release of funds.
§ 551.120
Visiting.
Staff shall allow pretrial inmates to receive visits in accordance with the Bureau's rule and local institution guidelines on visiting. Staff may allow a pretrial inmate special visits to protect the inmate's business interests or to help prepare for trial.
Subparts K-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Victim and/or Witness Notification

# Source:
49 FR 18386, Apr. 30, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.150
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides a requesting victim and/or witness of a serious crime with information on the release from a Bureau institution of the inmate convicted of that serious crime.
[64 FR 68265, Dec. 6, 1999]
§ 551.151
Definitions.
(a) For purpose of this rule,
victim
is generally defined as someone who suffers direct or threatened physical, emotional, or financial harm as the result of the commission of a crime. The term “victim” also includes the immediate family of a minor or a homicide victim.
(b) For purpose of this rule,
witness
is defined as someone who has information or evidence concerning a crime, and provides information regarding this knowledge to a law enforcement agency. Where the witness is a minor, the term “witness” includes an appropriate family member. The term “witness” does not include defense witnesses or those individuals involved in the crime as a perpetrator or accomplice.
(c) For purpose of this rule,
serious crime
is defined as a criminal offense that involves personal violence, attempted or threatened personal violence or significant property loss.
(d) For purpose of this rule, the phrase
release from a Bureau institution
refers to an inmate's furlough, parole (including appearance before the Parole Commission), transfer to a State or local detention facility, transfer to a community corrections center, mandatory release, expiration of sentence, escape (including apprehension), death, and other such release-related information.
[49 FR 18386, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 55 FR 6178, Feb. 21, 1990; 64 FR 68265, Dec. 6, 1999]
§ 551.152
Procedures.
(a) A victim and/or witness of a serious crime who wants to be notified of a specific inmate's release must make this request to the United States Attorney in the district where the prosecution occurred. Requests for notification received by the Bureau of Prisons directly from a victim and/or witness will be referred to the U.S. Attorney in the district of prosecution for approval.
(b) Institution staff shall promptly notify the victim and/or witness when his or her request for notification has been received. Staff shall advise each approved victim and/or witness of that person's responsibility for notifying the Bureau of Prisons of any address and/or telephone number changes.
[49 FR 18386, Apr. 30, 1984, as amended at 55 FR 6178, Feb. 21, 1990]
§ 551.153
Cancelling the notification request.
(a) A victim and/or witness may request cancellation of the notification by contacting either the Bureau of Prisons or the U.S. Attorney from the prosecuting district. The Bureau of Prisons shall notify the victim and/or witness that his or her request for notification has been cancelled.
(b) Bureau of Prisons staff may cancel a notification request when the victim and/or witness has not responded within 60 calendar days to a Bureau of Prisons inquiry concerning whether the victim and/or witness wishes to continue receiving notification of the inmate's release(s).
(c) A notification request by a victim and/or witness ordinarily terminates when the inmate has completed service of the sentence for the serious crime which resulted in the request for notification.

# Subpart N—Smoking/No Smoking Areas

# Source:
79 FR 72548, Dec. 8, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 551.160
Purpose and scope.
To advance towards becoming a clean air environment and to protect the health and safety of staff and inmates, the Bureau of Prisons will restrict areas and circumstances where smoking is permitted within its institutions and offices.
§ 551.161
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart,
smoking
is defined as inhaling the smoke of any substance through the use of smoking apparatus including,
but not limited to, cigars, cigarettes, or pipes.
§ 551.162
Smoking generally prohibited.
Smoking is generally prohibited in and on the grounds of Bureau institutions and offices, with the following two exceptions:
(a) Smoking is permitted as part of an authorized inmate religious activity; and
(b) For Bureau staff and official visitors, smoking is permitted only in smoking areas designated by the Warden.
§ 551.163
Possession of smoking apparatus and tobacco prohibited.
Possession of smoking apparatus and tobacco in any form is prohibited for inmates, unless as part of an authorized inmate religious activity.
Pt. 552

# PART 552—CUSTODY
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Searches of Housing Units, Inmates, and Inmate Work Areas
Sec.
552.10
Purpose and scope.
552.11
Searches of inmates.
552.12
Close observation.
552.13
Medical x-ray device, major instrument, or surgical intrusion.
552.14
Search of inmate housing and work areas.

# Subpart C—Use of Force and Application of Restraints on Inmates
552.20
Purpose and scope.
552.21
Types of force.
552.22
Principles governing the use of force and application of restraints.
552.23
Confrontation avoidance procedures.
552.24
Use of four-point restraints.
552.25
Use of less-than-lethal weapons, including chemical agents.
552.26
Medical attention in use of force and application of restraints incidents.
552.27
Documentation of use of force and application of restraints incidents.

# Subpart D—Hostage Situation Management
552.30
Purpose and scope.
552.31
Negotiations.
552.32
Hostages.
552.33
Media.

# Subpart E—Suicide Prevention Program
552.40
Purpose and scope.
552.41
Program procedures.
552.42
Suicide watch conditions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
45 FR 33941, May 20, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Searches of Housing Units, Inmates, and Inmate Work Areas

# Source:
45 FR 75134, Nov. 13, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 552.10
Purpose and scope.
In order to further the safe, secure, and orderly running of its institutions, the Bureau of Prisons conducts searches of inmates and of inmate housing and work areas to locate contraband and to deter its introduction and movement. Staff shall employ the least intrusive method of search practicable, as indicated by the type of contraband and the method of suspected introduction.
§ 552.11
Searches of inmates.
(a)
Electronic devices.
Inspection of an inmate's person using electronic devices (for example, metal detector, ion spectrometry device, or body imaging search device) does not require the inmate to remove clothing. The inspection may also include a search of the inmate's clothing and personal effects. Staff may conduct an electronic device search of an inmate on a routine or random basis to control contraband.
(b)
Pat Search.
Inspection of an inmate using the hands does not require the inmate to remove clothing. The inspection includes a search of the inmate's clothing and personal effects. Staff may conduct a pat search of an inmate on a routine or random basis to control contraband.
(c)
Visual search
—a visual inspection of all body surfaces and body cavities.
(1) Staff may conduct a visual search where there is reasonable belief that contraband may be concealed on the person, or a good opportunity for concealment has occured. For example, placement in a special housing unit (see 28 CFR part 541, subpart B), leaving the institution, or re-entry into an institution after contact with the public (after a community trip, court transfer, or after a “contact” visit in a visiting room) is sufficient to justify a visual search. The visual search shall be made in a manner designed to assure as much privacy to the inmate as practicable.
(2) Staff of the same sex as the inmate shall make the search, except where circumstances are such that delay would mean the likely loss of contraband. Where staff of the opposite sex makes a visual search, staff shall document the reasons for the opposite sex search in the inmate's central file.
(d)
Digital or simple instrument search
—inspection for contraband or any other foreign item in a body cavity of an inmate by use of fingers or simple instruments, such as an otoscope, tongue blade, short nasal speculum, and simple forceps. A digital or simple instrument search may be conducted only by designated qualified health personnel (for example, physicians, physician assistants, and nurses) upon approval of the Warden or Acting Warden and only if the Warden or Acting Warden has reasonable belief that an inmate is concealing contraband in or on his person. If located, the contraband or foreign item may be removed immediately by medical staff if such removal can easily be effected by use of fingers or the simple instruments referred to above. Staff shall document all digital and simple instrument searches and the reasons for the searches in the inmate's central file.
(1) Staff shall solicit the inmate's written consent prior to conducting a digital or simple instrument search. However, the inmate's consent is not required.
(2) Staff may not conduct a digital or simple instrument search if it is likely to result in physical injury to the inmate.
[45 FR 75134, Nov. 13, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 48970, Oct. 21, 1983; 56 FR 21036, May 6, 1991; 72 FR 37631, July 11, 2007; 80 FR 32001, June 5, 2015]
§ 552.12
Close observation.
When there is reasonable belief that an inmate has ingested contraband or concealed contraband in a body cavity and the methods of search specified in § 552.11 are inappropriate or likely to result in physical injury to the inmate, the Warden or designee may authorize the placement of an inmate in a room or cell for the purpose of staff's closely observing that inmate until the inmate has voided the contraband or until sufficient time has elapsed to preclude the possibility that the inmate is concealing contraband.
(a) The length of close observation status will be determined on an individual basis. Ordinarily, the Captain, in consultation with qualified health personnel, shall determine when termination is appropriate. The status of an inmate under close observation for as long as three days must be reviewed by the Segregation Review Official according to the provisions in § 541.22(c) of this chapter, and the initial SRO review conducted within three work days shall be a formal hearing. Maintaining an inmate under close observation beyond seven days requires approval of the Warden, who makes this decision in consultation with the Captain and qualified health personnel.
(b) The supervising staff member shall be the same sex as the inmate and shall maintain complete and constant visual supervision of the inmate.
(c) The supervisor responsible for initiating the close observation watch shall advise the inmate of the conditions and of what is expected.
(1) The inmate shall be required to provide a urine sample within two hours of placement under close observation in accordance with the provisions of § 550.30 of this chapter on urine surveillance. A second urine sample is required prior to releasing the inmate from close observation.
(2) The light will be kept on at all times.
(3) No inmate under close observation status may be allowed to come into contact with another inmate.
(4) The inmate ordinarily may not be allowed personal property while under close observation status, except legal and personal mail and a reasonable amount of legal materials when requested. Personal hygiene items will be controlled by staff.
(5) When the inmate is lying on a bed, the inmate shall be required to lie on top of the mattress in full view, weather and room temperature permitting. When necessary for the inmate to use cover, hands must remain visible at all times so that staff can observe any attempt to move contraband.
(6) Due to security concerns, the inmate ordinarily may not be permitted recreation outside of the cell.
(7) The inmate is to be served the same meals as those served to the general population, unless medically contraindicated.
(8) No medications may be given to the inmate except for those prescribed and given by hospital personnel. No laxatives may be given except natural laxatives, i.e., coffee, prune juice, etc.
(9) When the inmate needs to urinate and/or defecate, the inmate will be furnished an empty hospital bed pan.
(10) When the inmate requests to shave, to brush teeth, or other such request, a wash pan and container of water is to be provided for use in the cell.
(11) Institution staff shall be available to the inmate upon request, within reason and within the bounds of security concerns.
[56 FR 21036, May 6, 1991]
§ 552.13
Medical x-ray device, major instrument, or surgical intrusion.
(a) The institution physician may authorize use of a major instrument (including anoscope or vaginal speculum) or surgical intrusion for medical reasons only, with the inmate's consent.
(b) The institution physician may authorize use of a medical x-ray device for medical reasons and only with the consent of the inmate. When there exists no reasonable alternative, and an examination using a medical x-ray device is determined necessary for the security, good order, or discipline of the institution, the Warden, upon approval of the Regional Director, may authorize the institution physician to order a non-repetitive examination using a medical x-ray device for the purpose of determining if contraband is concealed in or on the inmate (for example: In a cast or body cavity). The examination using a medical x-ray device may not be performed if it is determined by the institution physician that it is likely to result in serious or lasting medical injury or harm to the inmate. Staff shall place documentation of the examination and the reasons for the examination in the inmate's central file and medical file.
(1) The Warden and Regional Director or persons officially acting in that capacity may not redelegate the authority to approve an examination using medical x-ray device for the purpose of determining if contraband is present. An Acting Warden or Acting Regional Director may, however, perform this function.
(2) Staff shall solicit the inmate's consent prior to an examination using a medical x-ray device. However, the inmate's consent is not required.
(c) The Warden may direct searches of inanimate objects using a medical x-ray device where the inmate is not exposed.
[80 FR 32002, June 5, 2015]
§ 552.14
Search of inmate housing and work areas.
(a) Staff may search an inmate's housing and work area, and personal items contained within those areas, without notice to or prior approval from the inmate and without the inmate's presence.
(b) Staff conducting the search shall leave the housing or work area as nearly as practicable in its original order.
[45 FR 75134, Nov. 13, 1980. Redesignated at 56 FR 21036, May 6, 1991]

# Subpart C—Use of Force and Application of Restraints on Inmates

# Source:
54 FR 21394, May 17, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 552.20
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons authorizes staff to use force only as a last alternative after all other reasonable efforts to resolve a situation have failed. When authorized, staff must use only that amount of force necessary to gain control of the inmate, to protect and ensure the safety of inmates, staff, and others, to prevent serious property damage and to ensure institution security and good order. Staff are authorized to apply physical restraints necessary to gain control of an inmate who appears to be dangerous because the inmate:
(a) Assaults another individual;
(b) Destroys government property;
(c) Attempts suicide;
(d) Inflicts injury upon self; or
(e) Becomes violent or displays signs of imminent violence.
This rule on application of restraints does not restrict the use of restraints in situations requiring precautionary restraints, particularly in the movement or transfer of inmates (e.g., the use of handcuffs in moving inmates to and from a cell in detention, escorting an inmate to a Special Housing Unit pending investigation, etc.).
[59 FR 30469, June 13, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 39800, July 30, 1996]
§ 552.21
Types of force.
(a)
Immediate use of force.
Staff may immediately use force and/or apply restraints when the behavior described in § 552.20 constitutes an immediate, serious threat to the inmate, staff, others, property, or to institution security and good order.
(b)
Calculated use of force and/or application of restraints.
This occurs in situations where an inmate is in an area that can be isolated (e.g., a locked cell, a range) and where there is no immediate, direct threat to the inmate or others. When there is time for the calculated use of force or application of restraints, staff must first determine if the situation can be resolved without resorting to force (see § 552.23).
(c)
Use of Force Team Technique.
If use of force is determined to be necessary, and other means of gaining control of an inmate are deemed inappropriate or ineffective, then the Use of Force Team Technique shall be used to control the inmate and to apply soft restraints, to include ambulatory leg restraints. The Use of Force Team Technique ordinarily involves trained staff, clothed in protective gear, who enter the inmate's area in tandem, each with a coordinated responsibility for helping achieve immediate control of the inmate.
(d)
Exceptions.
Any exception to this rule is prohibited, except where the facts and circumstances known to the staff member would warrant a person using sound correctional judgment to reasonably believe other action is necessary (as a last resort) to prevent serious physical injury, or serious property damage which would immediately endanger the safety of staff, inmates, or others.
[59 FR 30469, June 13, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 39800, July 30, 1996]
§ 552.22
Principles governing the use of force and application of restraints.
(a) Staff ordinarily shall first attempt to gain the inmate's voluntary cooperation before using force.
(b) Force may not be used to punish an inmate.
(c) Staff shall use only that amount of force necessary to gain control of the inmate. Situations when an appropriate amount of force may be warranted include, but are not limited to:
(1) Defense or protection of self or others;
(2) Enforcement of institutional regulations; and
(3) The prevention of a crime or apprehension of one who has committed a crime.
(d) Where immediate use of restraints is indicated, staff may temporarily apply such restraints to an inmate to prevent that inmate from hurting self, staff, or others, and/or to prevent serious property damage. When the temporary application of restraints is determined necessary, and after staff have gained control of the inmate, the Warden or designee is to be notified immediately for a decision on whether the use of restraints should continue.
(e) Staff may apply restraints (for example, handcuffs) to the inmate who continues to resist after staff achieve
physical control of that inmate, and may apply restraints to any inmate who is placed under control by the Use of Force Team Technique. If an inmate in a forcible restraint situation refuses to move to another area on his own, staff may physically move that inmate by lifting and carrying the inmate to the appropriate destination.
(f) Restraints should remain on the inmate until self-control is regained.
(g) Except when the immediate use of restraints is required for control of the inmate, staff may apply restraints to, or continue the use of progressive restraints on, an inmate while in a cell in administrative detention or disciplinary segregation only with approval of the Warden or designee.
(h) Restraint equipment or devices (e.g., handcuffs) may not be used in any of the following ways:
(1) As a method of punishing an inmate.
(2) About an inmate's neck or face, or in any manner which restricts blood circulation or obstructs the inmate's airways.
(3) In a manner that causes unnecessary physical pain or extreme discomfort.
(4) To secure an inmate to a fixed object, such as a cell door or cell grill, except as provided in § 552.24.
(i) Medication may not be used as a restraint solely for security purposes.
(j) All incidents involving the use of force and the application of restraints (as specified in § 552.27) must be carefully documented.
[54 FR 21394, May 17, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 59 FR 30469, 30470, June 13, 1994; 61 FR 39800, July 30, 1996]
§ 552.23
Confrontation avoidance procedures.
Prior to any calculated use of force, the ranking custodial official (ordinarily the Captain or shift Lieutenant), a designated mental health professional, and others shall confer and gather pertinent information about the inmate and the immediate situation. Based on their assessment of that information, they shall identify a staff member(s) to attempt to obtain the inmate's voluntary cooperation and, using the knowledge they have gained about the inmate and the incident, determine if use of force is necessary.
[59 FR 30470, June 13, 1994]
§ 552.24
Use of four-point restraints.
When the Warden determines that four-point restraints are the only means available to obtain and maintain control over an inmate, the following procedures must be followed:
(a) Soft restraints (e.g., vinyl) must be used to restrain an inmate, unless:
(1) Such restraints previously have proven ineffective with respect to that inmate, or
(2) Such restraints are proven ineffective during the initial application procedure.
(b) Inmates will be dressed in clothing appropriate to the temperature.
(c) Beds will be covered with a mattress, and a blanket/sheet will be provided to the inmate.
(d) Staff shall check the inmate at least every 15 minutes, both to ensure that the restraints are not hampering circulation and for the general welfare of the inmate. When an inmate is restrained to a bed, staff shall periodically rotate the inmate's position to avoid soreness or stiffness.
(e) A review of the inmate's placement in four-point restraints shall be made by a Lieutenant every two hours to determine if the use of restraints has had the required calming effect and so that the inmate may be released from these restraints (completely or to lesser restraints) as soon as possible. At every two-hour review, the inmate will be afforded the opportunity to use the toilet, unless the inmate is continuing to actively resist or becomes violent while being released from the restraints for this purpose.
(f) When the inmate is placed in four-point restraints, qualified health personnel shall initially assess the inmate to ensure appropriate breathing and response (physical or verbal). Staff shall also ensure that the restraints have not restricted or impaired the inmate's circulation. When inmates are so restrained, qualified health personnel ordinarily are to visit the inmate at least twice during each eight hour shift. Use of four-point restraints beyond eight hours requires the supervision of qualified health personnel. Mental health
and qualified health personnel may be asked for advice regarding the appropriate time for removal of the restraints.
(g) When it is necessary to restrain an inmate for longer than eight hours, the Warden (or designee) or institution administrative duty officer shall notify the Regional Director or Regional Duty Officer by telephone.
[54 FR 21394, May 17, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 59 FR 30469, 30470, June 13, 1994; 61 FR 39800, July 30, 1996]
§ 552.25
Use of less-than-lethal weapons, including chemical agents.
(a) The Warden may authorize the use of less-than-lethal weapons, including those containing chemical agents, only when the situation is such that the inmate:
(1) Is armed and/or barricaded; or
(2) Cannot be approached without danger to self or others; and
(3) It is determined that a delay in bringing the situation under control would constitute a serious hazard to the inmate or others, or would result in a major disturbance or serious property damage.
(b) The Warden may delegate the authority under this regulation to one or more supervisors on duty and physically present, but not below the position of Lieutenant.
[76 FR 6056, Feb. 3, 2011]
§ 552.26
Medical attention in use of force and application of restraints incidents.
(a) In immediate use of force situations, staff shall seek the assistance of mental health or qualified health personnel upon gaining physical control of the inmate. When possible, staff shall seek such assistance at the onset of the violent behavior. In calculated use of force situations, the use of force team leader shall seek the guidance of qualified health personnel (based upon a review of the inmate's medical record) to identify physical or mental problems. When mental health staff or qualified health personnel determine that an inmate requires continuing care, and particularly when the inmate to be restrained is pregnant, the deciding staff shall assume responsibility for the inmate's care, to include possible admission to the institution hospital, or, in the case of a pregnant inmate, restraining her in other than face down four-point restraints.
(b) After any use of force or forcible application of restraints, the inmate shall be examined by qualified health personnel, and any injuries noted, immediately treated.
[61 FR 39801, July 30, 1996]
§ 552.27
Documentation of use of force and application of restraints incidents.
Staff shall appropriately document all incidents involving the use of force, chemical agents, or less-than-lethal weapons. Staff shall also document, in writing, the use of restraints on an inmate who becomes violent or displays signs of imminent violence. A copy of the report shall be placed in the inmate's central file.
[59 FR 30470, June 13, 1994, as amended at 76 FR 6056, Feb. 3, 2011]

# Subpart D—Hostage Situation Management

# Source:
61 FR 38042, July 22, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 552.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons primary objectives in all hostage situations are to safely free the hostage(s) and to regain control of the institution.
§ 552.31
Negotiations.
The Warden is not ordinarily involved directly in the negotiation process. Instead, this responsibility is ordinarily assigned to a team of individuals specifically trained in hostage negotiation techniques.
(a) Negotiators have no decision-making authority in hostage situations, but rather serve as intermediaries between hostage takers and command center staff.
(b) During the negotiation process, the following items are non-negotiable: release of captors from custody, providing of weapons, exchange of hostages, and immunity from prosecution.
§ 552.32
Hostages.
Captive staff have no authority and their directives shall be disregarded.
§ 552.33
Media.
The Warden shall assign staff to handle all news releases and news media inquiries in accordance with the rule on Contact with News Media (see 28 CFR 540.65).

# Subpart E—Suicide Prevention Program

# Source:
72 FR 12086, Mar. 15, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 552.40
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) operates a suicide prevention program to assist staff in identifying and managing potentially suicidal inmates. When staff identify an inmate as being at risk for suicide, staff will place the inmate on suicide watch. Based upon clinical findings, staff will either terminate the suicide watch when the inmate is no longer at imminent risk for suicide or arrange for the inmate's transfer to a medical referral center or contract health care facility.
§ 552.41
Program procedures.
(a)
Program Coordinator.
Each institution must have a Program Coordinator for the institution's suicide prevention program.
(b)
Training.
The Program Coordinator is responsible for ensuring that appropriate training is available to staff and to inmates selected as inmate observers.
(c)
Identification of at risk inmates.
(1) Medical staff are to screen a newly admitted inmate for signs that the inmate is at risk for suicide. Ordinarily, this screening is to take place within twenty-four hours of the inmate's admission to the institution.
(2) Staff (whether medical or non-medical) may make an identification at any time based upon the inmate's observed behavior.
(d)
Referral.
Staff who identify an inmate to be at risk for suicide will have the inmate placed on suicide watch.
(e)
Assessment.
A psychologist will clinically assess each inmate placed on suicide watch.
(f)
Intervention.
Upon completion of the clinical assessment, the Program Coordinator or designee will determine the appropriate intervention that best meets the needs of the inmate.
§ 552.42
Suicide watch conditions.
(a)
Housing.
Each institution must have one or more rooms designated specifically for housing an inmate on suicide watch. The designated room must allow staff to maintain adequate control of the inmate without compromising the ability to observe and protect the inmate.
(b)
Observation.
(1) Staff or trained inmate observers operating in scheduled shifts are responsible for keeping the inmate under constant observation.
(2) Only the Warden may authorize the use of inmate observers.
(3) Inmate observers are considered to be on an institution work assignment when they are on their scheduled shift.
(c)
Suicide watch log.
Observers are to document significant observed behavior in a log book.
(d)
Termination.
Based upon clinical findings, the Program Coordinator or designee will:
(1) Remove the inmate from suicide watch when the inmate is no longer at imminent risk for suicide, or
(2) Arrange for the inmate's transfer to a medical referral center or health care facility.
Pt. 553

# PART 553—INMATE PROPERTY
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Personal Property
Sec.
553.10
Purpose and scope.
553.11
Limitations on inmate personal property.
553.12
Contraband.
553.13
Procedures for handling contraband.
553.14
Inmate transfer between institutions and inmate release.
553.15
Limitations on personal property—medical transfers.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4126, 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12,
1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.

# Source:
48 FR 19573, Apr. 29, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Inmate Personal Property
§ 553.10
Purpose and scope.
It is the policy of the Bureau of Prisons that an inmate may possess ordinarily only that property which the inmate is authorized to retain upon admission to the institution, which is issued while the inmate is in custody, which the inmate purchases in the institution commissary, or which is approved by staff to be mailed to, or otherwise received by an inmate, that does not threaten the safety, security, or good order of the facility or protection of the public. These rules contribute to the management of inmate personal property in the institution, and contribute to a safe environment for staff and inmates by reducing fire hazards, security risks, and sanitation problems which relate to inmate personal property. Consistent with the mission of the institution, each Warden shall identify in writing that personal property which may be retained by an inmate in addition to that personal property which has been approved by the Director for retention at all institutions.
[48 FR 19573, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 36753, July 7, 1999; 80 FR 45885, Aug. 3, 2015]
§ 553.11
Limitations on inmate personal property.
(a)
Numerical limitations.
Authorized personal property may be subject to numerical limitations. The institution's Admission and Orientation program shall include notification to the inmate of any numerical limitations in effect at the institution and a current list of any numerical limitations shall be posted on inmate unit bulletin boards.
(b)
Storage space.
Staff shall set aside space within each housing area for use by an inmate. The designated area shall include a locker or other securable area in which the inmate is to store authorized personal property. The inmate shall be allowed to purchase an approved locking device for personal property storage in regular living units. Staff may not allow an inmate to accumulate materials to the point where the materials become a fire, sanitation, security, or housekeeping hazard.
(c)
Clothing.
Civilian clothing (i.e., clothing not issued to the inmate by the Bureau or purchased by the inmate from the commissary) ordinarily is not authorized for retention by the inmate. Civilian clothing which previously had been approved for retention may not be retained after August 6, 1999. Prerelease civilian clothing for an inmate may be retained by staff in the Receiving and Discharge area during the last 30 days of the inmate's confinement.
(d)
Legal materials.
Staff may allow an inmate to possess legal materials in accordance with the provisions on inmate legal activities (see § 543.11 of this chapter).
(e)
Hobbycraft materials.
Staff shall limit an inmate's hobby shop projects within the cell or living area to those projects which the inmate may store in designated personal property containers. Staff may make an exception for an item (for example, a painting) where size would prohibit placing the item in a locker. This exception is made with the understanding that the placement of the item is at the inmate's own risk. Staff shall require that hobby shop items be removed from the living area when completed, and be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of part 544, subpart D, of this chapter.
(f)
Radios and Watches.
An inmate may possess only one approved radio and one approved watch at a time. The inmate must be able to demonstrate proof of ownership. An inmate who purchases a radio or watch through a Bureau of Prisons commissary is ordinarily permitted the use of that radio or watch at any Bureau institution if the inmate is later transferred. If the inmate is not allowed to use the radio or watch at the new institution, the inmate shall be permitted to mail, at the receiving institution's expense, the
radio or watch to a destination of the inmate's choice. Where the inmate refuses to provide a mailing address, the radio and/or watch may be disposed of through approved methods, including destruction of the property.
(g)
Education Program Materials.
Education program materials or current correspondence courses may be retained even if not stored as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(h)
Personal Photos.
An inmate may possess photographs, subject to the limitations of paragraph (b) of this section, so long as they are not detrimental to personal safety or security, or to the good order of the institution.
[64 FR 36753, July 7, 1999]
§ 553.12
Contraband.
(a) Contraband is defined in § 500.1(h) of this chapter. Items possessed by an inmate ordinarily are not considered to be contraband if the inmate was authorized to retain the item upon admission to the institution, the item was issued by authorized staff, purchased by the inmate from the commissary, or purchased or received through approved channels (to include approved for receipt by an authorized staff member or authorized by institution guidelines).
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, there are two types of contraband.
(1) Staff shall consider as hard contraband any item which threatens the safety, security, or good order of the facility or protection of the public and which ordinarily is not approved for possession by an inmate or for admission into the institution. Examples of hard contraband include weapons, intoxicants, and currency (where prohibited).
(2) Staff shall consider as nuisance contraband any item other than hard contraband, which has never been authorized, or which may be, or which previously has been authorized for possession by an inmate, but whose possession is prohibited when it presents a threat to safety, security, or good order of the facility or protection of the public, or its condition or excessive quantities of it present a health, fire, or housekeeping hazard. Examples of nuisance contraband include: personal property no longer permitted for admission to the institution or permitted for sale in the commissary; altered personal property; excessive accumulation of commissary, newspapers, letters, or magazines which cannot be stored neatly and safely in the designated area; food items which are spoiled or retained beyond the point of safe consumption; government-issued items which have been altered, or other items made from government property without staff authorization.
[64 FR 36754, July 7, 1999, as amended at 80 FR 45885, Aug. 3, 2015]
§ 553.13
Procedures for handling contraband.
(a) Staff shall seize any item in the institution which has been identified as contraband whether the item is found in the physical possession of an inmate, in an inmate's living quarters, or in common areas of the institution.
(b) Staff shall dispose of items seized as contraband in accordance with the following procedures.
(1) Staff shall return to the institution's issuing authority any item of government property seized as contraband, except where the item is needed as evidence for disciplinary action or criminal prosecution. In such cases, staff may retain the seized property as evidence.
(2) Items of personal property confiscated by staff as contraband are to be inventoried and stored pending identification of the true owner (if in question) and possible disciplinary action. Following an inventory of the confiscated items, staff shall employ the following procedures.
(i) Staff shall provide the inmate with a copy of the inventory as soon as practicable. A copy of this inventory shall also be placed in the inmate's central file.
(ii) The inmate shall have seven days following receipt of the inventory to provide staff with evidence of ownership of the listed items. A claim of ownership may not be accepted for an item made from the unauthorized use of government property. Items obtained from another inmate (for example, through purchase, or as a gift) without staff authorization may be considered nuisance contraband for
which a claim of ownership is ordinarily not accepted.
(iii) If the inmate establishes ownership, but the item is identified as contraband, staff shall mail such items (other than hard contraband), at the inmate's expense, to a destination of the inmate's choice. The Warden or designee may authorize the institution to pay the cost of such mailings when the item had not been altered and originally had been permitted for admission to the institution or had been purchased from the commissary, or where the inmate has insufficient funds and no likelihood of new funds being received. Where the inmate has established ownership of a contraband item, but is unwilling, although financially able to pay postage as required, or refuses to provide a mailing address for return of the property, the property is to be disposed of through approved methods, including destruction of the property.
(iv) If the inmate is unable to establish ownership, staff shall make reasonable efforts to identify the owner of the property before any decision to destroy the property is made.
(v) Staff shall prepare and retain written documentation describing any items destroyed and the reasons for such action.
(vi) Where disciplinary action is appropriate, staff shall delay disposition of property until completion of such action (including appeals).
(c) Staff shall retain items of hard contraband for disciplinary action or prosecution or both. The contraband items may be delivered to law enforcement personnel for official use. When it is determined that the item is not needed for criminal prosecution, the hard contraband shall be destroyed as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section. Written documentation of the destruction shall be maintained for at least two years.
(d) Staff may not allow an inmate to possess funds in excess of established institutional limits. Staff shall deliver to the cashier any cash or negotiable instruments found in an inmate's possession which exceed the institution's allowable limits. Funds determined to be contraband shall be confiscated for crediting to the U.S. Treasury.
(1) Where disciplinary action against the inmate is appropriate, staff shall delay final disposition of the funds until such action (including appeals) is completed.
(2) Prior to a decision on the disposition of funds, staff shall allow the inmate a reasonable amount of time to prove ownership.
[48 FR 19573, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 36754, July 7, 1999]
§ 553.14
Inmate transfer between institutions and inmate release.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, authorized personal property shall be shipped by staff to the receiving institution.
(1) The Warden ordinarily shall allow an inmate transferring to another institution to transport personal items determined necessary or appropriate by staff and, if applicable, legal materials for active court cases.
(2) The Warden may require or allow an inmate who is transferring to another institution under furlough conditions to transport all the inmate's authorized personal property with him or her.
(3) An inmate who is being released or who is transferring to a Community Corrections Center may arrange to ship personal property at the inmate's expense. The inmate is responsible for transporting any personal property not so shipped.
(b) If the inmate's personal property is not authorized for retention by the receiving institution, staff at the receiving institution shall arrange for the inmate's excess personal property to be mailed to a non-Bureau destination of the inmate's choice. The inmate shall bear the expense for this mailing.
(c) Whenever the inmate refuses to provide a mailing address for return of the property or, when required, refuses to bear the expense of mailing the property, the property is to be disposed of through approved methods, including destruction of the property.
[64 FR 36754, July 7, 1999]
§ 553.15
Limitations on personal property—medical transfers.
The Warden shall set a limit on the amount of personal property that may accompany an inmate transferring to a medical facility. For purpose of this rule, a medical facility is one which provides observation and/or treatment of a medical, surgical, or psychiatric nature, or any combination of these. Such medical transfers are ordinarily of a short-term duration (30-120 days).
(a) The Wardens of the sending and receiving institutions shall allow the inmate to retain those legal materials specifically needed in respect to on-going litigation. Questions as to the need for such material may be referred to Regional Counsel.
(b) The Warden of the sending institution shall designate a secure location for storage of all inmate personal property not accompanying the inmate.
(c) Personal property permitted in the sending institution, but not in the receiving institution, shall either be retained at the sending institution or be mailed to a destination of the inmate's choice.
(1) If the inmate is expected to return to the sending institution within 120 days of transfer, staff shall advise the inmate that property not allowed in the medical facility may be held at the sending institution or sent to a destination of the inmate's choice (other than the medical facility), at the inmate's expense. Where lack of space prevents retention of the inmate's property at the sending institution, that institution shall pay postage costs connected with mailing the inmate's property to a destination of the inmate's choice. Where lack of space prevents the retention of the inmate's property at the sending institution, and the inmate refuses to provide a mailing address for return of the property, the property is to be disposed of through approved methods, including destruction of the property.
(2) The inmate's property may be sent with the inmate to the medical facility when the inmate is not expected to return to the sending institution, will be at the medical facility over 120 days, or for any other justified reason. The Warden at the sending institution shall prepare and place in the inmate's central file written documentation for forwarding the inmate's personal property.
(d) The Warden of the medical facility shall return an inmate's personal property ordinarily in the same or equivalent size container as originally used by the sending institution. Property accumulated over that amount, at the option of the inmate, will either be sent to a destination selected by the inmate, at the inmate's expense, donated, or destroyed. If the inmate is financially able but refuses to pay for the mailing, or if the inmate refuses to provide a mailing address for forwarding of the property, the property is to be disposed of through approved methods, including destruction of the property.

# SUBCHAPTER D—COMMUNITY PROGRAMS AND RELEASE
Pt. 570

# PART 570—COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Pre-Release Community Confinement
Sec.
570.20
Purpose.
570.21
Time-frames.
570.22
Designation.

# Subpart C—Furloughs
570.30
Purpose.
570.31
Inmate eligibility for furloughs.
570.32
Types of furloughs.
570.33
Justification for furlough.
570.34
Expenses of furlough.
570.35
Transfer furlough eligibility requirements.
570.36
Non-transfer furlough eligibility requirements.
570.37
Procedures to apply for a furlough.
570.38
Conditions of Furlough.

# Subpart D—Escorted Trips
570.40
Purpose and scope.
570.41
Medical escorted trips.
570.42
Non-medical escorted trips.
570.43
Inmates requiring a high degree of control and supervision.
570.44
Supervision and restraint requirements.
570.45
Violation of escorted trip.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 751, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166, 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Pre-Release Community Confinement

# Source:
73 FR 62443, Oct. 21, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.20
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide the procedures of the Bureau of Prisons (Bureau) for designating inmates to pre-release community confinement or home detention.
(a)
Community confinement
is defined as residence in a community treatment center, halfway house, restitution center, mental health facility, alcohol or drug rehabilitation center, or other community correctional facility (including residential re-entry centers); and participation in gainful employment, employment search efforts, community service, vocational training, treatment, educational programs, or similar facility-approved programs during non-residential hours.
(b)
Home detention
is defined as a program of confinement and supervision that restricts the defendant to his place of residence continuously, except for authorized absences, enforced by appropriate means of surveillance by the probation office or other monitoring authority.
§ 570.21
Time-frames.
(a)
Community confinement.
Inmates may be designated to community confinement as a condition of pre-release custody and programming during the final months of the inmate's term of imprisonment, not to exceed twelve months.
(b)
Home detention.
Inmates may be designated to home detention as a condition of pre-release custody and programming during the final months of the inmate's term of imprisonment, not to exceed the shorter of ten percent of the inmate's term of imprisonment or six months.
(c)
Exceeding time-frames.
These time-frames may be exceeded when separate statutory authority allows greater periods of community confinement as a condition of pre-release custody.
§ 570.22
Designation.
Inmates will be considered for pre-release community confinement in a manner consistent with 18 U.S.C. section 3621(b), determined on an individual basis, and of sufficient duration to provide the greatest likelihood of successful reintegration into the community, within the time-frames set forth in this part.

# Subpart C—Furloughs

# Source:
76 FR 1517, Jan. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.30
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to describe the procedures governing the furlough program of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (Bureau), which is authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3622. Under the furlough program, the Bureau allows inmates who meet certain requirements to be temporarily released from custody under carefully prescribed conditions.
§ 570.31
Inmate eligibility for furloughs.
(a)
Eligible inmates.
The following types of inmates may be eligible for furloughs:
(1) Sentenced inmates housed in Bureau facilities.
(2) Pretrial inmates housed in Bureau facilities (provided that they comply with the requirements of 28 CFR part 551, Subpart J).
(3) Sentenced inmates housed in Bureau facilities and classified as central inmate monitoring cases (provided that they comply with the requirements of 28 CFR part 524, Subpart F).
(b)
Ineligible inmates.
The following types of inmates are not eligible for furloughs:
(1) Sentenced inmates housed in contract facilities are not eligible to participate in the Bureau's furlough program under these rules, but may apply for furloughs as specified in that facility's written agreement with the Bureau.
(2) Inmates who are U.S. Marshals prisoners housed in contract facilities are not eligible to participate, but must direct any furlough requests to the U.S. Marshals.
§ 570.32
Types of furloughs.
A furlough is an authorized absence from an institution by an inmate who is not under escort of a staff member, U.S. Marshal, or state or federal agents. The two types of furloughs are:
(a)
Transfer furlough
—A furlough for the purpose of transferring an inmate from one Bureau facility to another, a non-federal facility, or community confinement (including home confinement) as noted below at § 570.33(a).
(b)
Non-transfer furlough
—A furlough for any purpose other than a transfer furlough, and which may be defined based on its nature, as either emergency or routine, as follows:
(1)
Emergency furlough
—A furlough allowing an inmate to address a family crisis or other urgent situation as noted below at § 570.33(b).
(2)
Routine furlough
—A furlough for any of the reasons noted below at § 570.33 (a) and (c) through (j).
(c)
Duration and distance of non-transfer furlough
—
(1)
Day furlough
—A furlough within the geographic limits of the commuting area of the institution, which lasts 16 hours or less and ends before midnight.
(2)
Overnight furlough
—A furlough which falls outside the criteria of a day furlough.
§ 570.33
Justification for furlough.
The Warden or designee may authorize a furlough, for 30 calendar days or less, for an inmate to:
(a) Transfer directly to another Bureau institution, a non-federal facility, or community confinement;
(b) Be present during a crisis in the immediate family, or in other urgent situations;
(c) Participate in the development of release plans;
(d) Establish or reestablish family and community ties;
(e) Participate in selected educational, social, civic, and religious activities which will facilitate release transition;
(f) Appear in court in connection with a civil action;
(g) Comply with an official request to appear before a grand jury, or to comply with a request from a legislative body, or regulatory or licensing agency;
(h) Appear in or prepare for a criminal court proceeding, but only when the use of a furlough is requested or recommended by the applicable court or prosecuting attorney;
(i) Participate in special training courses or in institution work assignments, including Federal Prison Industries (FPI) work assignments, when
daily commuting from the institution is not feasible; or
(j) Receive necessary medical, surgical, psychiatric, or dental treatment not otherwise available.
§ 570.34
Expenses of furlough.
All expenses of a furlough, including transportation, food, lodging, and incidentals, are the responsibility of the inmate, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden, except that the government may bear the expense of a furlough if it is for the government's primary benefit.
§ 570.35
Transfer furlough eligibility requirements.
(a) Inmates transferring to administrative, low, medium, or high security facilities are generally not eligible for participation in the Bureau's transfer furlough program.
(b) For a transfer furlough, inmates other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section must:
(1) Be physically and mentally capable of completing the furlough; and
(2) Demonstrate sufficient responsibility to provide reasonable assurance that furlough requirements will be met.
(c) Inmates transferring to minimum security facilities must meet the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section, and must also be:
(1) Transferring from a low or minimum security facility; and
(2) Appropriate for placement in a minimum security facility based on the inmate's security designation and custody classification at the time of transfer.
(d) Inmates transferring to community confinement must meet the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section, and must also be appropriate for placement in community confinement based on the inmate's security designation and custody classification at the time of transfer.
§ 570.36
Non-transfer furlough eligibility requirements.
(a) An inmate may be eligible for a non-transfer furlough if the inmate meets the criteria described in 570.35(b) and the following additional criteria:
If an inmate has . . .
Then the inmate may only be considered
for . . .
been confined at the initially designated institution for less than 90 days
an emergency furlough.
more than two years remaining until the projected release date
an emergency furlough.
2 years or less remaining until the projected release date
an emergency furlough or a routine day furlough.
18 months or less remaining until the projected release date
an emergency furlough, a routine day furlough, or a routine overnight furlough within the institution's commuting area.
1 year or less remaining until the projected release date
an emergency furlough, a routine day furlough, or a routine overnight furlough either within or outside the institution's commuting area.
(b) Ordinarily, Wardens will not grant a furlough to an inmate if:
(1) The inmate is convicted of a serious crime against a person;
(2) The inmate's presence in the community could attract undue public attention, create unusual concern, or diminish the seriousness of the offense; or
(3) The inmate has been granted a furlough in the past 90 days.
§ 570.37
Procedures to apply for a furlough.
(a)
Application.
Inmates may submit a furlough application to staff, who will review it for compliance with these regulations and Bureau policy.
(b)
Notification of decision.
An inmate will be notified of the Warden's decision on the furlough application. Where a furlough application is denied, the inmate will be notified of the reasons for the denial.
(c)
Appeal.
An inmate may appeal any aspect of the furlough program through the Administrative Remedy Program, 28 CFR Part 542, Subpart B.
§ 570.38
Conditions of Furlough.
(a) An inmate who violates the conditions of a furlough may be considered an escapee under 18 U.S.C. 4082 or 18 U.S.C. 751, and may be subject to criminal prosecution and institution disciplinary action.
(b) A furlough will only be approved if an inmate agrees to the following
conditions and understands that, while on furlough, he/she:
(1) Remains in the legal custody of the U.S. Attorney General, in service of a term of imprisonment;
(2) Is subject to prosecution for escape if he/she fails to return to the institution at the designated time;
(3) Is subject to institution disciplinary action, arrest, and criminal prosecution for violating any condition(s) of the furlough;
(4) May be thoroughly searched and given a urinalysis, breathalyzer, and other comparable test, during the furlough or upon return to the institution, and must pre-authorize the cost of such test(s) if the inmate or family members are paying the other costs of the furlough. The inmate must pre-authorize all testing fee(s) to be withdrawn directly from his/her inmate deposit fund account;
(5) Must contact the institution (or United States Probation Officer) in the event of arrest, or any other serious difficulty or illness; and
(6) Must comply with any other special instructions given by the institution.
(c) While on furlough, the inmate must not:
(1) Violate the laws of any jurisdiction (federal, state, or local);
(2) Leave the area of his/her furlough without permission, except for traveling to the furlough destination, and returning to the institution;
(3) Purchase, sell, possess, use, consume, or administer any narcotic drugs, marijuana, alcohol, or intoxicants in any form, or frequent any place where such articles are unlawfully sold, dispensed, used, or given away;
(4) Use medication that is not prescribed and given to the inmate by the institution medical department or a licensed physician;
(5) Have any medical/dental/surgical/psychiatric treatment without staff's written permission, unless there is an emergency. Upon return to the institution, the inmate must notify institution staff if he/she received any prescribed medication or treatment in the community for an emergency;
(6) Possess any firearm or other dangerous weapon;
(7) Get married, sign any legal papers, contracts, loan applications, or conduct any business without staff's written permission;
(8) Associate with persons having a criminal record or with persons who the inmate knows to be engaged in illegal activities without staff's written permission;
(9) Drive a motor vehicle without staff's written permission, which can only be obtained if the inmate has proof of a currently valid driver's license and proof of appropriate insurance; or
(10) Return from furlough with anything the inmate did not take out with him/her (for example, clothing, jewelry, or books).

# Subpart D—Escorted Trips

# Source:
50 FR 48366, Nov. 22, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.40
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides approved inmates with staff-escorted trips into the community for such purposes as receiving medical treatment not otherwise available, for visiting a critically-ill member of the inmate's immediate family, or for participating in program or work-related functions.
§ 570.41
Medical escorted trips.
(a) Medical escorted trips are intended to provide an inmate with medical treatment not available within the institution. There are two types of medical escorted trips.
(1)
Emergency medical escorted trip.
An escorted trip occurring as the result of an unexpected life-threatening medical situation requiring immediate medical treatment not available at the institution. The required treatment may be on either an in-patient or out-patient basis.
(2)
Non-emergency medical escorted trip.
A pre-planned escorted trip for the purpose of providing an inmate with medical treatment ordinarily not available at the institution. The required treatment may be on either an in-patient or out-patient basis.
(b) The Clinical Director or designee is responsible for determining whether a medical escorted trip is appropriate.
(c)
Escorted trip procedures—out-patient medical treatment.
A recommendation for an inmate to receive a medical escorted trip is prepared by medical staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden for review. The Warden may approve an inmate for an out-patient medical escorted trip.
(d)
Escorted trip procedures—in-patient medical treatment.
A recommendation for an inmate to receive a medical escorted trip is prepared by medical staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. The Warden may approve an inmate for an in-patient medical escorted trip.
[50 FR 48366, Nov. 22, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 21158, May 18, 1992]
§ 570.42
Non-medical escorted trips.
(a) Non-medical escorted trips allow an inmate to leave the institution under staff escort for approved, non-medical reasons. There are two types of non-medical escorted trips.
(1)
Emergency non-medical escorted trip.
An escorted trip for such purposes as allowing an inmate to attend the funeral of, or to make a bedside visit to, a member of an inmate's immediate family. For purposes of this rule, immediate family refers to mother, father, brother, sister, spouse, children, step-parents, and foster parents.
(2)
Non-emergency, non-medical escorted trip.
An escorted trip for such purposes as allowing inmates to participate in program-related functions, such an educational or religious activities, or in work-related functions.
(b)
Escorted trip procedures—emergency non-medical reasons.
Unit staff are to investigate, and determine, the merits of an escorted trip following a review of the available information. This includes contacting those persons (e.g., attending physician, hospital staff, funeral home staff, family members, U.S. Probation Officer) who can contribute to a determination on whether an escorted trip should be approved.
(1) The government assumes the salary expenses of escort staff for the first eight hours of each day. All other expenses, including transportation costs, are assumed by the inmate, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden. The necessary funds must be deposited to the inmate's trust fund account prior to the trip. Funds paid by the inmate for purposes of the escorted trip are then drawn, payable to the Treasury of the United States. Unexpended funds are returned to the inmate's trust fund account following the completion of the trip.
(2) A request for an inmate to receive an emergency non-medical escorted trip is prepared by unit staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. Except as specified in § 570.43, the Warden may approve an inmate for an emergency non-medical escorted trip.
(c)
Escorted trip procedures—non-emergency, non-medical reasons.
This type of escorted trip is considered for an inmate who has been at the institution for at least 90 days, and who is considered eligible for less secure housing and for work details, under minimal supervision, outside the institution's perimeter. A recommendation for an inmate to receive an escorted trip for non-emergency, non-medical reasons is prepared by the recommending staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. Except as specified in § 570.43, the Warden may approve an inmate for a non-emergency, non-medical escorted trip.
§ 570.43
Inmates requiring a high degree of control and supervision.
Only the Regional Director may approve a non-medical escorted trip (either emergency or non-emergency) for an inmate determined to require a high degree of control and supervision.
§ 570.44
Supervision and restraint requirements.
Inmates under escort will be within the constant and immediate visual supervision of escorting staff at all times. Restraints may be applied to an inmate going on an escorted trip, after considering the purpose of the escorted trip and the degree of supervision required by the inmate. Except for escorted
trips for a medical emergency, an inmate going on an escorted trip must agree in writing to the conditions of the escorted trip (for example, agrees not to consume alcohol).
§ 570.45
Violation of escorted trip.
(a) Staff shall process as an escapee an inmate who absconds from an escorted trip.
(b) Staff may take disciplinary action against an inmate who fails to comply with any of the conditions of the escorted trip.
Pt. 571

# PART 571—RELEASE FROM CUSTODY
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Release Preparation Program
Sec.
571.10
Purpose and scope.
571.11
Program responsibility.
571.12
General characteristics.
571.13
Institution release preparation program.

# Subpart C—Release Gratuities, Transportation, and Clothing
571.20
Purpose and scope.
571.21
Procedures.
571.22
Release clothing and transportation.

# Subpart D—Release of Inmates Prior to a Weekend or Legal Holiday
571.30
Purpose and scope.

# Subpart E—Petition for Commutation of Sentence
571.40
Purpose and scope.
571.41
Procedures.

# Subpart F—Fines and Costs
571.50
Purpose and scope.
571.51
Definitions.
571.52
Procedures—committed fines.
571.53
Determination of indigency by U.S. Magistrate—inmates in federal institutions.
571.54
Determination of indigency by U.S. Magistrate Judge—inmates in contract community-based facilities or state institutions.

# Subpart G—Compassionate Release (Procedures for the Implementation of 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A) and 4205(g))
571.60
Purpose and scope.
571.61
Initiation of request—extraordinary or compelling circumstances.
571.62
Approval of request.
571.63
Denial of request.
571.64
Ineligible offenders.
Subpart H—Designation of Offenses for Purposes of 18 U.S.C. 4042(c) [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3565; 3568 and 3569 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 3582, 3621, 3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4161-4166 and 4201-4218 (Repealed as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 5006-5024 (Repealed October 12, 1984, as to offenses committed after that date), 5031-5042; 28 U.S.C. 509 and 510; U.S. Const., Art. II, Sec. 2; 28 CFR 1.1-1.10; D.C. Official Code sections 24-101, 24-461, 24-465, 24-467, and 24-468.

# Source:
44 FR 38254, June 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Release Preparation Program

# Source:
59 FR 35456, July 11, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 571.10
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons recognizes that an inmate's preparation for release begins at initial commitment and continues throughout incarceration and until final release to the community. This subpart establishes a standardized release preparation program for all sentenced inmates reintegrating into the community from Bureau facilities. Exception to this subpart may be made by the Warden of a Bureau facility which has been designated as an administrative maximum security institution.
[61 FR 38043, July 22, 1996]
§ 571.11
Program responsibility.
The Warden shall designate to a staff member the responsibility to:
(a) Determine the general release needs of the inmate population;
(b) Coordinate the institution release preparation program;
(c) Chair the Release Preparation Program Committee;
(d) Contact and schedule volunteers from the local community to participate in the release preparation program.
§ 571.12
General characteristics.
(a) Staff shall structure the release preparation program to make extensive use of staff, inmate, and community resources.
(b) Staff shall strongly encourage and support an inmate's participation in the institution release preparation program. Staff shall document the inmate's participation in the program in the inmate's central file.
§ 571.13
Institution release preparation program.
(a) The institution release preparation program shall be administered by the Release Preparation Program Committee.
(b) The institution release preparation program will be based on a core curriculum of topics/courses organized into six broad categories. The six categories are:
(1) Health and nutrition.
(2) Employment.
(3) Personal finance/consumer skills.
(4) Information/community resources.
(5) Release requirements and procedures.
(6) Personal growth and development.
(c) To assist in the release process, the Warden may, in accordance with the Bureau of Prisons' rule on furloughs, grant an inmate a furlough for release preparation purposes.
(d) Staff shall help an inmate obtain proper identification (social security card, driver's license, birth certificate, and/or any other documents needed by the inmate) prior to release.
(e) An inmate who is not being released through a Community Corrections Center (CCC) may ask staff to request the assistance of a United States Probation Officer in establishing a release plan. Bureau staff are to encourage the inmate to give at least one employment lead or contact. Where the inmate or the inmate's family has already identified employment, the case manager shall notify the United States Probation Officer so that the usual verification of release plans may be made. Where employment has not been identified, the case manager shall notify the United States Probation Officer of the employment need. This notification should ordinarily occur at least six weeks prior to the inmate's release.

# Subpart C—Release Gratuities, Transportation, and Clothing

# Source:
56 FR 23480, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 571.20
Purpose and scope.
It is the policy of the Bureau of Prisons that an inmate being released to the community will have suitable clothing, transportation to the inmate's release destination, and some funds to use until he or she begins to receive income. Based on the inmate's need and financial resources, a discretionary gratuity up to the amount permitted by statute may be granted.
[61 FR 47795, Sept. 10, 1996]
§ 571.21
Procedures.
(a) An inmate is eligible for a gratuity as determined by the availability of personal and community resources. Greater consideration may be given to an inmate without funds or community resources.
(b) A federal prisoner boarded in a non-federal facility is eligible for a release gratuity. The director of the non-federal facility housing federal inmates or the community corrections manager shall determine the amount of release gratuity in accordance with the purpose and scope of this regulation for federal inmates housed in non-federal facilities.
(c) An inmate who is without personal funds may receive a gratuity when transferred to a community corrections center. The amount shall enable the inmate to care for needs in transit and allow for the purchase of necessary personal items upon arrival.
(d) Staff shall provide the inmate released to a detainer with information on how to apply for a gratuity if released prior to expiration of the federal sentence.
(e) Staff will ensure that each alien released to immigration authorities for
the purpose of release or transfer to a community corrections center has $10 cash. This provision does not apply to aliens being released for the purpose of deportation, exclusion, or removal, or to aliens detained or serving 60 days or less in contract facilities.
[56 FR 23480, May 21, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 34300, June 9, 2003]
§ 571.22
Release clothing and transportation.
(a) Staff shall provide release clothing appropriate for the time of year and the inmate's geographical destination. Upon request, work clothing will be provided. Nonavailability of work clothing may limit this practice.
(b) Inmates transferring to a community corrections center will be provided adequate clothing to complete a job search and perform work. Additionally, an outer garment, seasonably suited for the geographical destination will be provided.
(c) Transportation will be provided to an inmate's place of conviction or to his/her legal residence within the United States or its territories.
[56 FR 23480, May 21, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 34302, June 9, 2003]

# Subpart D—Release of Inmates Prior to a Weekend or Legal Holiday
§ 571.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons may release an inmate whose release date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, on the last preceding weekday unless it is necessary to detain the inmate for another jurisdiction seeking custody under a detainer, or for any other reason which might indicate that the inmate should not be released until the inmate's scheduled release date.
(a) The release authority for inmates convicted of offenses occurring prior to November 1, 1987 is pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4163. The number of days used under 18 U.S.C. 4163 may not be added to the number of days remaining to be served to release an inmate “as if * * * on parole” (18 U.S.C. 4164) who would otherwise have been released by expiration of sentence.
(b) The release authority for inmates sentenced under the provisions of the Sentencing Reform Act of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 for offenses committed on/or after November 1, 1987 is pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3624(a).
[54 FR 49070, Nov. 28, 1989]

# Subpart E—Petition for Commutation of Sentence
§ 571.40
Purpose and scope.
An inmate may file a petition for commutation of sentence in accordance with the provisions of 28 CFR part 1.
(a) An inmate may request from the inmate's case manager the appropriate forms (and instructions) for filing a petition for commutation of sentence.
(b) When specifically requested by the U.S. Pardon Attorney, the Director, Bureau of Prisons will forward a recommendation on the inmate's petition for commutation of sentence.
[47 FR 9756, Mar. 5, 1982]
§ 571.41
Procedures.
(a) Staff shall suggest that an inmate who wishes to submit a petition for commutation of sentence do so through the Warden to the U.S. Pardon Attorney. This procedure allows institution staff to forward with the application the necessary supplemental information (for example, sentencing information, presentence report, progress report, pertinent medical records if the petition involves the inmate's health, etc.). Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no Bureau of Prisons recommendation is to be forwarded with the package of material submitted to the U.S. Pardon Attorney.
(b) When specifically requested by the U.S. Pardon Attorney, the Director, Bureau of Prisons shall submit a recommendation on the petition. Prior to making a recommendation, the Director may request comments from the Warden at the institution where the inmate is confined. Upon review of those comments, the Director will forward a recommendation on the petition to the U.S. Pardon Attorney.
(c) When a petition for commutation of sentence is granted by the President
of the United States, the U.S. Pardon Attorney will forward the original of the signed and sealed warrant of clemency evidencing the President's action to the Warden at the detaining institution, with a copy to the Director, Bureau of Prisons. The Warden shall deliver the original warrant to the affected inmate, and obtain a signed receipt for return to the U.S. Pardon Attorney. The Warden shall take such action as is indicated in the warrant of clemency.
(1) If a petition for commutation of sentence is granted, Bureau of Prisons staff shall recalculate the inmate's sentence in accordance with the terms of the commutation order.
(2) If the commutation grants parole eligibility, the inmate is to be placed on the appropriate parole docket.
(d) When a petition for commutation of sentence is denied, the U.S. Pardon Attorney ordinarily notifies the Warden, requesting that the Warden notify the inmate of the denial.
[47 FR 9756, Mar. 5, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 34663, Aug. 5, 1992; 75 FR 13681, Mar. 23, 2010]

# Subpart F—Fines and Costs

# Source:
48 FR 48971, Oct. 21, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 571.50
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes procedures for processing a fine, or fine and costs ordered by the court with respect to an inmate convicted of an offense committed before November 1, 1987. When the court orders a prisoner's confinement until payment of a fine, or fine and costs under 18 U.S.C. 3565, the Bureau of Prisons shall confine that inmate until the fine, or fine and costs are paid, unless the inmate qualifies for release under 18 U.S.C. 3569.
(a) An inmate held on the sole basis of his/her inability to pay such fine, or fine and costs, and whose non-exempt property does not exceed $20.00 may request discharge from imprisonment on the basis of indigency (see 18 U.S.C. 3569).
(b) Under 18 U.S.C. 3569, the determination of indigency may be made by a U.S. Magistrate Judge. Where the U.S. Magistrate Judge makes a finding of non-indigency based on the inmate's application for a determination of his ability to pay the committed fine, or fine and costs, staff shall refer the application to the appropriate United States Attorney for the purpose of making a final decision on the inmate's discharge under 18 U.S.C. 3569. It is to be noted that 18 U.S.C. 3569 provides for confining an inmate for nonpayment of a committed fine, or fine and costs.
[63 FR 4357, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 571.51
Definitions.
(a)
Fine
—a monetary penalty associated with an offense imposed as part of a judgment and commitment. There are two types of fines.
(1)
Committed fine
—a monetary penalty imposed with a condition of imprisonment until the fine is paid.
(2)
Non-committed fine
—a monetary penalty which has no condition of confinement imposed.
(b)
Costs
—Monetary costs of the legal proceeding which the court may levy. Imposition of costs is similar in legal effect to imposition of a fine. The court may also impose costs with a condition of imprisonment.
[48 FR 48971, Oct. 21, 1983, as amended at 63 FR 4357, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 571.52
Procedures—committed fines.
(a)(1) Promptly after the inmate's commitment, staff shall inform the inmate that there is a committed fine, or fine and costs on file, as part of the sentence. Staff shall then impound the inmate's trust fund account until the fine, or fine and costs is paid, except—
(i) The inmate may spend money from his/her trust fund account for the purchase of commissary items not exceeding the maximum monthly allowance authorized for such purchases.
(ii) Staff may authorize the inmate to make withdrawals from his/her trust fund account for emergency family, emergency personal needs or furlough purposes.
(2) This rule of impounding an inmate's trust fund account applies only when the inmate is confined in a federal institution. It does not apply to a
federal inmate confined in a state institution or a contract community-based facility.
(b) If the inmate pays the committed fine, or fine and costs, or staff have verified payment, staff shall document payment in the appropriate file and release the inmate's trust fund account from impoundment.
(c) Staff shall interview the inmate with an unpaid committed fine at least 75 days prior to the inmate's release date. Staff shall explain to the inmate that to secure release without paying the committed fine, or fine and costs in full, the inmate must make an application, on the appropriate form, to the U.S. Magistrate Judge for determination as to whether the inmate can be declared indigent under 18 U.S.C. 3569.
[63 FR 4357, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 571.53
Determination of indigency by U.S. Magistrate—inmates in federal institutions.
(a) An inmate with a committed fine, or fine and costs who is imprisoned in a federal institution may make application for a determination of indigency directly to the U.S. Magistrate Judge in the district where the inmate is imprisoned under 18 U.S.C. 3569.
(b) After completion of the application, staff shall offer to forward the completed forms and any other applicable information the inmate chooses to the U.S. Magistrate Judge.
(c) If the U.S. Magistrate Judge finds that the inmate is indigent, the U.S. Magistrate Judge will administer the oath to the inmate. The inmate shall be released no earlier than the regularly established release date.
(d) If the U.S. Magistrate Judge finds that the inmate is not indigent, Bureau staff shall forward a referral package to the appropriate United States Attorney for a final determination as to the inmate's ability to pay the committed fine, or fine and costs.
[63 FR 4357, Jan. 28, 1998]
§ 571.54
Determination of indigency by U.S. Magistrate Judge—inmates in contract community-based facilities or state institutions.
(a) Inmates with a committed fine, or fine and costs may be transferred to contract community-based facilities, state institutions as boarders, or state institutions for service of federal sentences running concurrently with state sentences.
(b) Inmates with a committed fine, or fine and costs may be committed directly to contract community-based facilities or state institutions as boarders or may be designated to state institutions for service of federal sentences running concurrently with state sentences.
(c) An inmate with a committed fine, or fine and costs who is imprisoned in a contract community-based facility or state institution and desires to make application for a determination of ability to pay the committed fine, or fine and costs under 18 U.S.C. 3569 may make application directly to the U.S. Magistrate Judge.
(d) Upon receipt of a finding by the U.S. Magistrate Judge that the inmate is not indigent, Bureau staff shall forward a referral package to the appropriate United States Attorney for a final determination as to the inmate's ability to pay the committed fine, or fine and costs.
[63 FR 4357, Jan. 28, 1998]

# Subpart G—Compassionate Release (Procedures for the Implementation of 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A) and 4205(g))

# Source:
59 FR 1238, Jan. 7, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 571.60
Purpose and scope.
Under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g), a sentencing court, on motion of the Bureau of Prisons, may make an inmate with a minimum term sentence immediately eligible for parole by reducing the minimum term of the sentence to time served. Under 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A), a sentencing court, on motion of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, may reduce the term of imprisonment of an inmate sentenced under the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984. The Bureau uses 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) and 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A) in particularly extraordinary or compelling circumstances which could not reasonably have been foreseen by the court at the time of sentencing.
§ 571.61
Initiation of request—extraordinary or compelling circumstances.
(a) A request for a motion under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A) shall be submitted to the Warden. Ordinarily, the request shall be in writing, and submitted by the inmate. An inmate may initiate a request for consideration under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A) only when there are particularly extraordinary or compelling circumstances which could not reasonably have been foreseen by the court at the time of sentencing. The inmate's request shall at a minimum contain the following information:
(1) The extraordinary or compelling circumstances that the inmate believes warrant consideration.
(2) Proposed release plans, including where the inmate will reside, how the inmate will support himself/herself, and, if the basis for the request involves the inmate's health, information on where the inmate will receive medical treatment, and how the inmate will pay for such treatment.
(b) The Bureau of Prisons processes a request made by another person on behalf of an inmate in the same manner as an inmate's request. Staff shall refer a request received at the Central Office to the Warden of the institution where the inmate is confined.
[59 FR 1238, Jan. 7, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 13479, Feb. 28, 2013]
§ 571.62
Approval of request.
(a) The Bureau of Prisons makes a motion under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A) only after review of the request by the Warden, the General Counsel, and either the Medical Director for medical referrals or the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division for non-medical referrals, and with the approval of the Director, Bureau of Prisons.
(1) The Warden shall promptly review a request for consideration under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A). If the Warden, upon an investigation of the request determines that the request warrants approval, the Warden shall refer the matter in writing with recommendation to the Office of General Counsel.
(2) If the General Counsel determines that the request warrants approval, the General Counsel shall solicit the opinion of either the Medical Director or the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division depending upon the nature of the basis of the request. The General Counsel will solicit the opinion of the United States Attorney in the district in which the inmate was sentenced. With these opinions, the General Counsel shall forward the entire matter to the Director, Bureau of Prisons, for final decision, subject to the general supervision and direction of the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General.
(3) If the Director, Bureau of Prisons, grants a request under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g), the Director will contact the U.S. Attorney in the district in which the inmate was sentenced regarding moving the sentencing court on behalf of the Bureau of Prisons to reduce the minimum term of the inmate's sentence to time served. If the Director, Bureau of Prisons, grants a request under 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A), the Director will contact the U.S. Attorney in the district in which the inmate was sentenced regarding moving the sentencing court on behalf of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to reduce the inmate's term of imprisonment to time served.
(b) Upon receipt of notice that the sentencing court has entered an order granting the motion under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g), the Warden of the institution where the inmate is confined shall schedule the inmate for hearing on the earliest Parole Commission docket. Upon receipt of notice that the sentencing court has entered an order granting the motion under 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A), the Warden of the institution where the inmate is confined shall release the inmate forthwith.
(c) In the event the basis of the request is the medical condition of the inmate, staff shall expedite the request at all levels.
[59 FR 1238, Jan. 7, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 13479, Feb. 28, 2013; 78 FR 73084, Dec. 5, 2013]
§ 571.63
Denial of request.
(a) When an inmate's request is denied by the Warden, the inmate will receive written notice and a statement of
reasons for the denial. The inmate may appeal the denial through the Administrative Remedy Procedure (28 CFR part 542, subpart B).
(b) When an inmate's request for consideration under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A) is denied by the General Counsel, the General Counsel shall provide the inmate with a written notice and statement of reasons for the denial. This denial constitutes a final administrative decision.
(c) When the Director, Bureau of Prisons, denies an inmate's request, the Director shall provide the inmate with a written notice and statement of reasons for the denial within 20 workdays after receipt of the referral from the Office of General Counsel. A denial by the Director constitutes a final administrative decision.
(d) Because a denial by the General Counsel or Director, Bureau of Prisons, constitutes a final administrative decision, an inmate may not appeal the denial through the Administrative Remedy Procedure.
[59 FR 1238, Jan. 7, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 13479, Feb. 28, 2013]
§ 571.64
Ineligible offenders.
The Bureau of Prisons has no authority to initiate a request under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g) or 3582(c)(1)(A) on behalf of state prisoners housed in Bureau of Prisons facilities or D.C. Code offenders confined in federal institutions. The Bureau of Prisons cannot initiate such a motion on behalf of federal offenders who committed their offenses prior to November 1, 1987, and received non-parolable sentences.
Subpart H—Designation of Offenses for Purposes of 18 U.S.C. 4042(c) [Reserved]
Pt. 572

# PART 572—PAROLE
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Parole and Mandatory Release Violator Reports
Sec.
572.30
Purpose and scope.
572.31
Procedures.

# Subpart E—Compassionate Release (Procedures for the Implementation of 18 U.S.C. 4205(g))
572.40
Compassionate release under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g).

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed in part as to offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987), 4205, 5015 (Repealed October 12, 1984 as to offenses committed after that date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 28 CFR 0.95-0.99.
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Parole and Mandatory Release Violator Reports
§ 572.30
Purpose and scope.
The Bureau of Prisons provides the U.S. Parole Commission with a Violator Report for use at the revocation hearing of a parole or mandatory release violator, when that hearing is conducted in an institution of the Bureau of Prisons.
[45 FR 33941, May 20, 1980]
§ 572.31
Procedures.
Staff shall prepare the Violator Report to include the following information:
(a) The inmate's original offense, sentence imposed, date and district;
(b) Description of release procedure;
(c) Alleged violation(s) of parole or mandatory release;
(d) Inmate's comments concerning the alleged violation(s);
(e) An outline of the inmate's activities while under supervision on parole or mandatory release; and
(f) At the option of the inmate, statement of current release plans and available community resources.
[45 FR 33941, May 20, 1980]

# Subpart E—Compassionate Release (Procedures for the Implementation of 18 U.S.C. 4205(g))
§ 572.40
Compassionate release under 18 U.S.C. 4205(g).
18 U.S.C. 4205(g) was repealed effective November 1, 1987, but remains the
controlling law for inmates whose offenses occurred prior to that date. For inmates whose offenses occurred on or after November 1, 1987, the applicable statute is 18 U.S.C. 3582(c)(1)(A). Procedures for compassionate release of an inmate under either provision are contained in 28 CFR part 571, subpart G.
[59 FR 1239, Jan. 7, 1994]
PARTS 573-599 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. VI (7-1-25 Edition)
Offices of Independent Counsel, Justice

# CHAPTER VI—OFFICES OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Part
Page
600
General powers of Special Counsel
837
601
Jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel: Iran/Contra
840
602
Jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel: In re Franklyn C. Nofziger
840
603
Jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel: In re Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association
842
604-699
[Reserved]
Pt. 600

# PART 600—GENERAL POWERS OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
Sec.
600.1
Grounds for appointing a Special Counsel.
600.2
Alternatives available to the Attorney General.
600.3
Qualifications of the Special Counsel.
600.4
Jurisdiction.
600.5
Staff.
600.6
Powers and authority.
600.7
Conduct and accountability.
600.8
Notification and reports by the Special Counsel.
600.9
Notification and reports by the Attorney General.
600.10
No creation of rights.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 515-519.

# Source:
64 FR 37042, July 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 600.1
Grounds for appointing a Special Counsel.
The Attorney General, or in cases in which the Attorney General is recused, the Acting Attorney General, will appoint a Special Counsel when he or she determines that criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted and—
(a) That investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney's Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances; and
(b) That under the circumstances, it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter.
§ 600.2
Alternatives available to the Attorney General.
When matters are brought to the attention of the Attorney General that might warrant consideration of appointment of a Special Counsel, the Attorney General may:
(a) Appoint a Special Counsel;
(b) Direct that an initial investigation, consisting of such factual inquiry or legal research as the Attorney General deems appropriate, be conducted in order to better inform the decision; or
(c) Conclude that under the circumstances of the matter, the public interest would not be served by removing the investigation from the normal processes of the Department, and that the appropriate component of the Department should handle the matter. If the Attorney General reaches this conclusion, he or she may direct that appropriate steps be taken to mitigate any conflicts of interest, such as recusal of particular officials.
§ 600.3
Qualifications of the Special Counsel.
(a) An individual named as Special Counsel shall be a lawyer with a reputation for integrity and impartial decisionmaking, and with appropriate experience to ensure both that the investigation will be conducted ably, expeditiously and thoroughly, and that investigative and prosecutorial decisions will be supported by an informed understanding of the criminal law and Department of Justice policies. The Special Counsel shall be selected from outside the United States Government. Special Counsels shall agree that their responsibilities as Special Counsel shall take first precedence in their professional lives, and that it may be necessary to devote their full time to the investigation, depending on its complexity and the stage of the investigation.
(b) The Attorney General shall consult with the Assistant Attorney General for Administration to ensure an appropriate method of appointment, and to ensure that a Special Counsel undergoes an appropriate background investigation and a detailed review of ethics and conflicts of interest issues. A Special Counsel shall be appointed as a “confidential employee” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7511(b)(2)(C).
§ 600.4
Jurisdiction.
(a)
Original jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of a Special Counsel shall be established by the Attorney General. The Special Counsel will be provided with a specific factual statement of the matter to be investigated. The jurisdiction of a Special Counsel shall also include the authority to investigate and prosecute federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel's investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of
justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses; and to conduct appeals arising out of the matter being investigated and/or prosecuted.
(b)
Additional jurisdiction.
If in the course of his or her investigation the Special Counsel concludes that additional jurisdiction beyond that specified in his or her original jurisdiction is necessary in order to fully investigate and resolve the matters assigned, or to investigate new matters that come to light in the course of his or her investigation, he or she shall consult with the Attorney General, who will determine whether to include the additional matters within the Special Counsel's jurisdiction or assign them elsewhere.
(c)
Civil and administrative jurisdiction.
If in the course of his or her investigation the Special Counsel determines that administrative remedies, civil sanctions or other governmental action outside the criminal justice system might be appropriate, he or she shall consult with the Attorney General with respect to the appropriate component to take any necessary action. A Special Counsel shall not have civil or administrative authority unless specifically granted such jurisdiction by the Attorney General.
§ 600.5
Staff.
A Special Counsel may request the assignment of appropriate Department employees to assist the Special Counsel. The Department shall gather and provide the Special Counsel with the names and resumes of appropriate personnel available for detail. The Special Counsel may also request the detail of specific employees, and the office for which the designated employee works shall make reasonable efforts to accommodate the request. The Special Counsel shall assign the duties and supervise the work of such employees while they are assigned to the Special Counsel. If necessary, the Special Counsel may request that additional personnel be hired or assigned from outside the Department. All personnel in the Department shall cooperate to the fullest extent possible with the Special Counsel.
§ 600.6
Powers and authority.
Subject to the limitations in the following paragraphs, the Special Counsel shall exercise, within the scope of his or her jurisdiction, the full power and independent authority to exercise all investigative and prosecutorial functions of any United States Attorney. Except as provided in this part, the Special Counsel shall determine whether and to what extent to inform or consult with the Attorney General or others within the Department about the conduct of his or her duties and responsibilities.
§ 600.7
Conduct and accountability.
(a) A Special Counsel shall comply with the rules, regulations, procedures, practices and policies of the Department of Justice. He or she shall consult with appropriate offices within the Department for guidance with respect to established practices, policies and procedures of the Department, including ethics and security regulations and procedures. Should the Special Counsel conclude that the extraordinary circumstances of any particular decision would render compliance with required review and approval procedures by the designated Departmental component inappropriate, he or she may consult directly with the Attorney General.
(b) The Special Counsel shall not be subject to the day-to-day supervision of any official of the Department. However, the Attorney General may request that the Special Counsel provide an explanation for any investigative or prosecutorial step, and may after review conclude that the action is so inappropriate or unwarranted under established Departmental practices that it should not be pursued. In conducting that review, the Attorney General will give great weight to the views of the Special Counsel. If the Attorney General concludes that a proposed action by a Special Counsel should not be pursued, the Attorney General shall notify Congress as specified in § 600.9(a)(3).
(c) The Special Counsel and staff shall be subject to disciplinary action for misconduct and breach of ethical duties under the same standards and to the same extent as are other employees of the Department of Justice. Inquiries into such matters shall be handled
through the appropriate office of the Department upon the approval of the Attorney General.
(d) The Special Counsel may be disciplined or removed from office only by the personal action of the Attorney General. The Attorney General may remove a Special Counsel for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause, including violation of Departmental policies. The Attorney General shall inform the Special Counsel in writing of the specific reason for his or her removal.
§ 600.8
Notification and reports by the Special Counsel.
(a)
Budget.
(1) A Special Counsel shall be provided all appropriate resources by the Department of Justice. Within the first 60 days of his or her appointment, the Special Counsel shall develop a proposed budget for the current fiscal year with the assistance of the Justice Management Division for the Attorney General's review and approval. Based on the proposal, the Attorney General shall establish a budget for the operations of the Special Counsel. The budget shall include a request for assignment of personnel, with a description of the qualifications needed.
(2) Thereafter, 90 days before the beginning of each fiscal year, the Special Counsel shall report to the Attorney General the status of the investigation, and provide a budget request for the following year. The Attorney General shall determine whether the investigation should continue and, if so, establish the budget for the next year.
(b)
Notification of significant events.
The Special Counsel shall notify the Attorney General of events in the course of his or her investigation in conformity with the Departmental guidelines with respect to Urgent Reports.
(c)
Closing documentation.
At the conclusion of the Special Counsel's work, he or she shall provide the Attorney General with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the Special Counsel.
§ 600.9
Notification and reports by the Attorney General.
(a) The Attorney General will notify the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the Judiciary Committees of each House of Congress, with an explanation for each action—
(1) Upon appointing a Special Counsel;
(2) Upon removing any Special Counsel; and
(3) Upon conclusion of the Special Counsels investigation, including, to the extent consistent with applicable law, a description and explanation of instances (if any) in which the Attorney General concluded that a proposed action by a Special Counsel was so inappropriate or unwarranted under established Departmental practices that it should not be pursued.
(b) The notification requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be tolled by the Attorney General upon a finding that legitimate investigative or privacy concerns require confidentiality. At such time as confidentiality is no longer needed, the notification will be provided.
(c) The Attorney General may determine that public release of these reports would be in the public interest, to the extent that release would comply with applicable legal restrictions. All other releases of information by any Department of Justice employee, including the Special Counsel and staff, concerning matters handled by Special Counsels shall be governed by the generally applicable Departmental guidelines concerning public comment with respect to any criminal investigation, and relevant law.
§ 600.10
No creation of rights.
The regulations in this part are not intended to, do not, and may not be relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity, by any person or entity, in any matter, civil, criminal, or administrative.
Pt. 601

# PART 601—JURISDICTION OF THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL: IRAN/CONTRA

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 515; 5 U.S.C. 301; Article II of the U.S. Constitution.
§ 601.1
Jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel: Iran/Contra.
(a)
The Independent Counsel.
Iran/Contra has jurisdiction to investigate to the maximum extent authorized by part 600 of this chapter whether any person or group of persons currently described in section 591 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, including Lieutenant Colonel Oliver L. North, other United States Government officials, or other individuals or organizations acting in concert with Lt. Col. North, or with other U.S. Government officials, has committed a violation of any federal criminal law, as referred to in section 591 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, relating in any way to:
(1) The direct or indirect sale, shipment, or transfer since in or about 1984 down to the present, of military arms, materiel, or funds to the Government of Iran, officials of that government, or persons, organizations or entities connected with or purporting to represent that government, or persons located in Iran;
(2) The direct or indirect sale, shipment, or transfer of military arms, materiel or funds to any government, entity, or persons acting, or purporting to act as an intermediary in any transaction above referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) The financing or funding of any direct or indirect sale, shipment or transfer referred to in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section;
(4) The diversion of the proceeds from any transaction described in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section to or for any person, organization, foreign government, or any faction or body of insurgents in any foreign country, including, but not limited to Nicaragua;
(5) The provision or coordination of support for persons or entities engaged as military insurgents in armed conflict with the Government of Nicaragua since 1984.
(b)
The Independent Counsel.
Iran/Contra shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate other allegations or evidence of violation of any federal criminal law by Oliver L. North, and any person or entity heretofore referred to, developed during the Independent Counsel's investigation referred to above, and connected with or arising out of that investigation, and to seek indictments and to prosecute any persons or entities involved in any of the foregoing events or transactions who are reasonably believed to have committed a violation of any federal criminal law (other than a violation constituting a Class B or C misdemeanor, or an infraction, or a petty offense) arising out of such events, including persons or entities who have engaged in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any criminal offense.
(c)
The Independent Counsel.
Iran/Contra shall have prosecutorial jurisdiction to initiate and conduct prosecutions in any court of competent jurisdiction for any violation of section 1826 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, or any obstruction of the due administration of justice, or any material false testimony or statement in violation of the federal criminal laws, in connection with the investigation authorized by part 600 of this chapter.
[52 FR 7272, Mar. 10, 1987; 52 FR 9241, Mar. 23, 1987]
Pt. 602

# PART 602—JURISDICTION OF THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL: IN RE FRANKLYN C. NOFZIGER

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 515; 5 U.S.C. 301.
§ 602.1
Independent Counsel: In re Franklyn C. Nofziger.
(a) The Independent Counsel: In re Franklyn C. Nofziger shall have jurisdiction to investigate to the maximum extent authorized by part 600 of this chapter whether Franklyn C. Nofziger committed a violation of any Federal criminal law, as referred to in 28 U.S.C. 591, and more specifically whether the aforesaid Franklyn C. Nofziger, who served as Assistant to the President from January 21, 1981 through January
22, 1982, and who was therefore prohibited by the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 207 from thereafter knowingly making certain types of oral or written communications, did violate any subsection of 18 U.S.C. 207 because of certain oral or written communications with departments or agencies of the U.S. Government (including but not limited to the White House or the Executive Office of the President) on behalf of Welbilt Electronic Die Corporation, Comet Rice, Inc., or any other person or entity, at any time during 1982 or 1983.
(b) The lndependent Counsel shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate other allegations and evidence of violation of any Federal criminal law by Franklyn C. Nofziger, and/or any of his business associates who may have acted in concert with or aided or abetted Franklyn C. Nofziger, developed. during the Independent Counsel's investigation referred to in paragraph (a) of this section or connected with or arising out of that investigation, and to seek indictments and to prosecute any such persons or entities involved in any of the foregoing events or transactions that Independent Counsel believes constitute a Federal offense and that there is reasonable cause to believe that the admissible evidence probably will be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction (28 U.S.C. 594(f)) of any Federal criminal law (other than a violation constituting a Class B or C misdemeanor, or an infraction, or a petty offense) arising out of such events, including such persons or entities who have engaged in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any criminal offense related to the prosecutorial jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel as herein established.
(c) The Independent Counsel: In re Franklyn C. Nofziger shall have jurisdiction to investigate to the maximum extent authorized by title 28 U.S.C. 594, whether the conduct of Edwin Meese III specified in this section constituted a violation of any federal criminal law, as referred to in 28 U.S.C. 591, and more specifically whether the federal conflict of interest laws, 18 U.S.C. 201-211, or any other provision of the federal criminal law, was violated by Mr. Meese's relationship or dealings at any time from 1981 to the present with any of the following: Welbilt Electronic Die Corporation/Wedtech Corporation (including any of its contracts with the U.S. Government, or efforts to obtain same); Franklyn C. Nofziger; E. Robert Wallach; W. Franklyn Chinn; and/or Financial Management International, Inc.
(d) The Independent Counsel: In re Franklyn C. Nofziger shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate other allegations and evidence of violation of any federal criminal law by Edwin Meese III developed during the Independent Counsel's investigation referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, and connected with or arising out of that investigation, and to seek indictments and to prosecute any persons or entities involved in any of the foregoing events or transactions that Independent Counsel believes constitute a federal offense and that there is reasonable cause to believe that the admissible evidence probably will be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction (28 U.S.C. 594(f)) of any federal criminal law (other than a violation constituting a Class B or C misdemeanor, or an infraction, or a petty offense) arising out of such events, including persons or entities who have engaged in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any criminal offense related to the prosecutorial jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel as herein established.
(e) The Independent Counsel shall have prosecutorial jurisdiction to initiate and conduct prosecutions in any court of competent jurisdiction for any violation of 28 U.S.C. 1826, or any obstruction of the due administration of justice, or any material false testimony or statement in violation of the Federal criminal laws, in connection with the investigation authorized by this regulation, and shall have all the powers and authority provided by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended, and specifically by 28 U.S.C. 594.
[52 FR 22439, June 12, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 22439, June 12, 1987; 52 FR 35544, Sept. 22, 1987]
Pt. 603

# PART 603—JURISDICTION OF THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL: IN RE MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS

# LOAN ASSOCIATION

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 543, unless otherwise noted.
§ 603.1
Jurisdiction of the Independent Counsel
(a) The Independent Counsel: In re Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate to the maximum extent authorized by part 600 of this chapter whether any individuals or entities have committed a violation of any federal criminal or civil law relating in any way to President William Jefferson Clinton's or Mrs. Hillary Rodham Clinton's relationships with:
(1) Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association;
(2) Whitewater Development Corporation; or
(3) Capital Management Services.
(b) The Independent Counsel: In re Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate other allegations or evidence of violation of any federal criminal or civil law by any person or entity developed during the Independent Counsel's investigation referred to above, and connected with or arising out of that investigation.
(c) The Independent Counsel: In re Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association shall have jurisdiction and authority to investigate any violation of section 1826 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, or any obstruction of the due administration of justice, or any material false testimony or statement in violation of federal law, in connection with any investigation of the matters described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) The Independent Counsel: In re Madison Guaranty Savings
Loan Association shall have jurisdiction and authority to seek indictments and to prosecute, or to bring civil actions against, any persons or entities involved in any of the matters referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section who are reasonably believed to have committed a violation of any federal criminal or civil law arising out of such matters, including persons or entities who have engaged in an unlawful conspiracy or who have aided or abetted any federal offense.
[59 FR 5322, Feb. 4, 1994]
PARTS 604-699 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. VII (7-1-25 Edition)
Office of Independent Counsel

# CHAPTER VII—OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL
Part
Page
700
Production or disclosure of material or information of the Office of Independent Counsel
845
701
Procedures for disclosure of records under the Freedom of Information Act
855
702-799
[Reserved]
Pt. 700

# PART 700—PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION OF THE OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL

# Subpart A—Protection of Privacy and Access to Individual Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
Sec.
700.10
General provisions.
700.11
Request for access to records.
700.12
Responses to requests for access to records.
700.13
Form and content of Office responses.
700.14
Classified information.
700.15
Records in exempt systems of records.
700.16
Access to records.
700.17
Fees for access to records.
700.18
Appeals from denials of access.
700.19
Preservation of records.
700.20
Requests for correction of records.
700.21
Records not subject to correction.
700.22
Request for accounting of record disclosures.
700.23
Notice of subpoenas and emergency disclosures.
700.24
Security of systems of records.
700.25
Use and collection of social security numbers.
700.26
Employee standards of conduct.
700.27
Other rights and services.

# Subpart B—Exemption of the Office of Independent Counsel's Systems of Records Under the Privacy Act
700.31
Exemption of the Office of Independent Counsel's systems of records—limited access.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
52 FR 48097, Dec. 18, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Protection of Privacy and Access to Individual Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
§ 700.10
General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
The subpart contains the regulations of the Office of Independent Counsel implementing the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. The regulations apply to all records that are contained in systems of records maintained by the Office of Independent Counsel and that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. These regulations set forth the procedures by which an individual may seek access under the Privacy Act to records pertaining to him, may request correction of such records, or may seek an accounting of disclosures of such records by the office.
(b)
Transfer of law-enforcement records.
The head of the Office, or his designee, is authorized to make written requests under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7) for transfer of records maintained by other agencies that are necessary to carry out an authorized law-enforcement activity of the Office.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Agency
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(1).
(2)
Record
has the same meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).
(3)
Request for access
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).
(4)
Request for correction
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).
(5)
Request for an accounting
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).
(6)
Requester
means an individual who makes either a request for access, a request for correction, or a request for an accounting.
(7)
System of records
means a group of any group of any records under the control of the Office from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to that individual.
§ 700.11
Request for access to records.
(a)
Procedure for making requests for access to records.
An individual may request access to a record about him by appearing in person or by writing the Office. A requester in need of guidance in defining his request may write to the FOIA/PA Officer, Office of Independent Counsel, suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20004. Both the envelope and the request itself should be marked: “Privacy Act Request.”
(b)
Description of records sought.
A request for access to records must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Office personnel to locate the system of records containing
the record with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, a request for access should describe the nature of the records sought, the date of the record or the period in which the record was compiled, and the name or identifying number of the system of records in which the requester believes the record is kept.
(c)
Agreement to pay fees.
The filing of a request for access to a record under this subpart shall be deemed to constitute an agreement to pay all applicable fees charged under § 700.17 up to $25.00. The Office shall confirm this agreement in its letter of acknowledgment to the requesters. When filing a request, a requester may specify a willingness to pay a greater amount, if applicable.
(d)
Verification of identity.
Any individual who submits a request for access to records must verify his identity in one of the following ways, unless the notice published in the
Federal Register
describing the relevant system of records provides otherwise.
(1) Any requester making a request in writing must state in his request his full name, current address, and date and place of birth. In addition, a requester must provide with his request an example of his signature, which shall be notarized. In order to facilitate the identification and location of the requested records, a requester may also, at his option, include in his request his Social Security number.
(2) Any requester submitting a request in person may provide to the Office a form of Official photographic identification, such as a passport or an identification badge. If a requester is unable to produce a form of photographic identification, he may provide to the Office two or more acceptable forms of identification (such as a driver's license or credit card) bearing his name and address.
(e)
Verification of guardianship.
The parent or guardian of a minor (or the guardian of a person judicially determined to be incompetent) who submits a request for access to the records of the minor or incompetent must establish:
(1) His own identity and the identity of the subject of the record, as required in paragraph (d) of this section,
(2) That he is the parent or guardian of the subject of the record, which may be proved by providing a copy of the subject's birth certificate showing parentage or by providing a court order establishing the guardianship, and
(3) That he seeks to act on behalf of the subject of the record.
§ 700.12
Responses to requests for access to records.
(a)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The head of the Office, or his designee, is authorized to grant or deny any request for access to a record.
(b)
Initial action by the Office.
When the Office receives a request for access to a record in its possession, the Office shall promptly determine whether another Government agency is better able to determine whether the record is exempt, to any extent, from access. If the Office determines that it is the agency best able to determine whether the record is exempt, to any extent, from access, then the Office shall respond to the request. If the Office determines that it is not the agency best able to determine whether the record is exempt from access, the Office shall respond to the request, after consulting with the agency best able to determine whether the record is exempt from access. Under ordinary circumstances, the agency that generated or originated a requested record shall be presumed to be the agency best able to determine whether the record is exempt from access. However, nothing in this section shall prohibit the agency that generated or originated a requested record from consulting with the Office, if the agency that generated or originated the requested record determines that the Office has an interest in the requested record or the information contained therein.
(c)
Law-enforcement information.
Whenever a request for access is made for a record containing information that relates to an investigation of a possible violation of criminal law or to a criminal law-enforcement proceeding and that was generated or originated by another agency, the Office shall consult with that other agency, as appropriate.
(d)
Classified information.
Whenever a request for access is made for a record
containing information that has been classified, or that may be eligible for classification, by another agency under the provision of Executive Order 12356 or any other Executive order concerning the classification of records, the Office shall refer the responsibilities for responding to the request to the agency that classified the information or should consider the information for classification. Whenever a record contains information that has been derivatively classified by the Office because it contains information classified by another agency, the Office shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the agency that classified the underlying information; however, such referral shall extend only to the information classified by the other agency.
(e)
Agreements regarding consultations.
No provision of this section shall preclude formal or informal agreements between the Office and another agency, to eliminate the need for consultations concerning requests or classes of requests.
(f)
Date for determining responsive records.
In determining records responsive to a request for access, the Office ordinarily will include only those records within the Office's possession and control as of the date of its receipt of the request.
§ 700.13
Form and content of Office responses.
(a)
Form of notice granting request for access.
After the Office has made a determination to grant a request for access in whole or in part, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice shall describe the manner in which access to the record will be granted and shall inform the requester of any fees to be charged in accordance with § 700.17.
(b)
Form of notice denying request for access.
When the Office denies a request for access in whole or in part it shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice shall be signed by the head of the Office, or his designee, and shall include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reason or reasons for the denial, including the Privacy Act exemption or exemptions that the Office has relied upon in denying the request and a brief explanation of the manner in which the exemption or exemptions apply to each record withheld; and
(3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 700.18(a) and a description of the requirements of that subsection.
(c)
Record cannot be located or has been destroyed.
If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, or is known or believed to have been destroyed or otherwise disposed of, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing.
(d)
Medical records.
When an individual requests medical records pertaining to himself that are not otherwise exempt from individual access, the Office may advise the individual that the records will be provided only to a physician, designated by the individual, who requests the records and establishes his identity in writing. The designated physician shall determine which records should be provided to the individual and which records should not be disclosed to the individual because of possible harm to the individual or another person.
§ 700.14
Classified information.
In processing a request for access to a record containing information that is classified or classifiable under Executive Order 12356 or any other Executive order concerning the classification of records, the Office shall review the information to determine whether it warrants classification. Information that does not warrant classification shall not be withheld from a requester on the basis of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). The Office shall, upon receipt of any appeal involving classified or classifiable information, take appropriate action to ensure compliance with the provisions of Executive Order 12356.
§ 700.15
Records in exempt systems of records.
(a)
Law-enforcement records exempted under subsections (j)(2) and (k)(2).
Before denying a request by an individual for access to a law-enforcement record that has been exempted from access
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the Office must review the requested record to determine whether information in the record has been used or is being used to deny the individual any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be eligible or to which he would otherwise be entitled under federal law. If so, the Office shall notify the requester of the existence of the record and disclose such information to the requester, except to the extent that the information would identify a confidential source. In cases when disclosure of information in a law-enforcement record could reasonably be expected to identify a confidential source, the record shall not be disclosed to the requester unless the Office is able to delete from such information all material that would identify the confidential source.
(b)
Employee background investigations.
When a requester requests access to a record pertaining to a background investigation and the record has been exempted from access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the record shall not be disclosed to the requester unless the Office is able to delete from such record all information that would identify a confidential source.
§ 700.16
Access to records.
(a)
Manner of access.
The Office, once it has made a determination to grant a request for access, shall grant the requester access to the requested record by—
(1) Providing the requester with a copy of the record or
(2) Making the record available for inspection by the requester at a reasonable time and place.
The Office shall in either case charge the requester applicable fees in accordance with the provisions of § 700.17. If the Office provides access to a record by making the record available for inspection by the requester, the manner of such inspection shall not unreasonably disrupt the operations of the Office.
(b)
Accompanying person.
A requester appearing in person to review his records may be accompanied by another individual of his own choosing. Both the requester and the accompanying person shall be required to sign a form stating that the Office of Independent Counsel is authorized to disclose the record in the presence of both individuals.
§ 700.17
Fees for access to records.
(a)
When charged.
The Office shall charge fees pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(5) for the copying of records to afford access to individuals unless the Office, in its discretion, waives or reduces the fees for good cause shown. The Office shall charge fees only at the rate of $0.10 per page. For materials other than paper copies, the Office may charge the direct costs of reproduction, but only if the requester has been notified of such costs before they are incurred. Fees shall not be charged when they would amount, in the aggregate, for one request or for a series of related requests, to less than $3.00. However, the Office may, in its discretion, increase the amount of this minimum fee.
(b)
Notice of estimated fees in excess of $25.
When the Office determines or estimates that the fees to be charged under this section may amount to more than $25, the Office shall notify the requester as soon as practicable of the actual or estimated amount of the fee, unless the requester has indicated in advance his willingness to pay a fee as high as that anticipated. (If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the Office shall advise the requester that the estimated fee may be only a portion of the total fee.) When the estimated fee exceeds $25 and the Office has so notified the requester, the Office will be deemed not to have received the request for access to records until the requester has agreed to pay the anticipated fee. A notice to a requester pursuant to this paragraph shall offer him the opportunity to confer with Office personnel with the object of reformulating his request to meet his needs at a lower cost.
(c)
Form of payment.
Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(d)
Advance deposits.
(1) When the estimated fee chargeable under this section exceeds $25, the Office may require a requester to make an advance deposit of 25 percent of the estimated fee or an
advance payment of $25, whichever is greater.
(2) When a requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged under this part, the requester must pay the Office the full amount owed and make an advance deposit of the full amount of any estimated fee before the Office shall be required to process a new or pending request for access from that requester.
§ 700.18
Appeals from denials of access.
(a)
Appeals to Independent Counsel.
When the Office denies in whole or part a request for access to records, the requester may appeal the denial to Independent Counsel within 30 days of his receipt of the notice denying his request. An appeal to Independent Counsel shall be made in writing, addressed to the Office of Independent Counsel, suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20004. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself must be clearly marked: “Privacy Act Appeal.”
(b)
Action on appeals.
Unless Independent Counsel otherwise directs, he or his designee shall act on all appeals under this section, except that: A denial of a request for access by Independent Counsel, or his designee, shall constitute the final action of the Office on that request.
(c)
Form of action on appeal.
The disposition of an appeal shall be in writing. A decision affirming in whole or in part the denial of a request for access shall include a brief statement of the reason or reasons for the affirmance, including each Privacy Act exemption relied upon and its relation to each record withheld, and a statement that judicial review of the denial is available in the United States District Court for the judicial district in which the requester resides or has his principal place of business, the judicial district in which the requested records are located, or the District of Columbia. If the denial of a request for access is reversed on appeal, the requester shall be so notified and the request shall be processed promptly in accordance with the decision on appeal.
§ 700.19
Preservation of records.
The Office shall preserve all correspondence relating to the requests it receives under this subpart, and all records processed pursuant to such requests, until such time as the destruction of such correspondence and records is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the U.S. Code. Under no circumstances shall records be destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request for access, appeal, or lawsuit under the Act.
§ 700.20
Requests for correction of records.
(a)
How made.
Unless a record is exempted from correction and amendment, an individual may submit a request for correction of a record pertaining to him. A request for correction must be made in writing. The request must identify the particular record in question, state the correction sought, and set forth the justification for the correction. Both the envelope and the request for correction itself must be clearly marked: “Privacy Act Correction Request.”
(b)
Initial determination.
Within 10 working days of receiving a request for correction, the Office shall notify the requester whether his request will be granted or denied, in whole or in part. If the Office grants the request for correction in whole or in part, it shall advise the requester of his right to obtain a copy of the corrected record, in releasable form, upon request. If the Office denies the request for correction in whole or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing of the denial. The notice of denial shall state the reason or reasons for the denial and advise the requester of his right to appeal.
(c)
Appeals.
When a request for correction is denied in whole or in part, the requester may appeal the denial to Independent Counsel within 30 days of his receipt of the notice denying his request. An appeal to Independent Counsel shall be made in writing, shall set forth the specific item of information sought to be corrected, and shall include any documentation said to justify the correction. An appeal shall be addressed to the Office of Independent Counsel, suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20004.
Both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself must be clearly marked: “Privacy Act Correction Appeal.”
(d)
Determination on appeal.
Independent Counsel, or his designee, shall decide all appeals from denials or requests to correct records. All such appeals shall be decided within 30 working days of receipt of the appeal, unless there is good cause to extend this period. If the denial of a request is affirmed on appeal, the requester shall be so notified in writing and advised of—
(1) The reason or reasons the denial has been affirmed,
(2) The requester's right to file a Statement of Disagreement, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, and
(3) The requester's right to obtain judicial review of the denial in the United States District Court for the judicial district in which the requester resides or has his principal place of business, the judicial district in which the record is located, or the District of Columbia.
If the denial is reversed on appeal, the requester shall be so notified and the request for correction shall be remanded to the Office for processing in accordance with the decision on appeal.
(e)
Statements of disagreement.
A requester whose appeal under this section is denied shall have the right to file a Statement of Disagreement with the Office of Independent Counsel, Suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20004, within 30 days of receiving notice of denial of his appeal. Statements of disagreement may not exceed one typed page per fact disputed. Statements exceeding this limit shall be returned to the requester for condensation. Upon receipt of a statement of disagreement under this section, Independent Counsel, or his designee, shall have the statement included in the system of records in which the disputed record is maintained and shall have the disputed record marked so as to indicate—
(1) That a statement of disagreement has been filed, and
(2) Where in the system of records the statement of disagreement may be found.
(f)
Notices of correction or disagreement.
Within 30 working days of the correction of a record, the Office shall advise all agencies to which it previously disclosed the record that the record has been corrected. Whenever an individual has filed a statement of disagreement, the Office shall append a copy of the statement to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed. The Office may also append to the disputed record any written statement it has made giving the Office's reasons for denying the request to correct the record.
§ 700.21
Records not subject to correction.
The following records are not subject to correction or amendment as provided in § 700.20:
(a) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath;
(b) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings that constitute the official record of such proceedings;
(c) Presentence records that are the property of the courts, but may be maintained by the Office in a system of records; and
(d) Records duly exempted from correction pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or 552a(k) by notice published in the
Federal Register.
§ 700.22
Request for accounting of record disclosures.
(a) An individual may request the Office to provide him with an accounting of those other agencies to which the Office has disclosed the record, and the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure. A request for an accounting must be made in writing and must identify the particular record for which the accounting is requested. The request also must be addressed to the Office and both the envelope and the request itself must clearly be marked: “Privacy Act Accounting Request.”
(b) The Office shall not be required to provide an accounting to an individual to the extent that the accounting relates to—
(1) Records for which no accounting must be kept pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(1),
(2) Disclosures of records to law-enforcement agencies for lawful law-enforcement activities, pursuant to written requests from such law-enforcement agencies specifying records sought and the law-enforcement activities for which the records are sought, under 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (b)(7), or
(3) Records for which an accounting need not be disclosed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) or (k).
(c) A denial of a request for an accounting may be appealed to Independent Counsel in the same manner as a denial of a request for access, with both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself clearly marked: “Privacy Act Accounting Appeal.”
§ 700.23
Notice of subpoenas and emergency disclosures.
(a)
Subpoenas.
When records pertaining to an individual are subpoenaed by a grand jury, court, or quasi-judicial authority, the official served with the subpoena shall be responsible for ensuring that written notice of its service is forwarded to the individual. Notice shall be provided within 10 working days of the service of the subpoena or, in the case of a grand jury subpoena, within 10 working days of its becoming a matter of public record. Notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the individual and shall contain the following information: The date the subpoena is returnable, the court or quasi-judicial authority to which it is returnable, the name and number of the case of proceeding, and the nature of the records sought. Notice of the service of a subpoena is not required if the system of records has been exempted from the notice requirement of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8), pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j), by a Notice of Exemption published in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Emergency disclosures.
If the record of an individual has been disclosed to any person under compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any person, as described in 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(8), the individual to whom the record pertains shall be notified of the disclosure at his last known address within 10 working days. The notice of such disclosure shall be in writing and shall state the nature of the information disclosed, the person or agency to whom it was disclosed, the date of disclosure, and the compelling circumstances justifying the disclosure. The officer who made or authorized the disclosure shall be responsible for providing such notification.
§ 700.24
Security of systems of records.
(a) The Office Administrator or Security Officer shall be responsible for issuing regulations governing the security of systems of records. To the extent that such regulations govern the security of automated systems of records, the regulations shall be consistent with the guidelines developed by the National Bureau of Standards.
(b) The Office shall establish administrative and physical controls to prevent unauthorized access to its systems of records, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of records, and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of records, and to prevent the physical damage or destruction of records. The stringency of such controls shall reflect the sensitivity of the records the controls protect. At a minimum, however, the Office's administrative and physical controls shall ensure that—
(1) Records are protected from public view,
(2) The area in which records are kept is supervised during business hours to prevent unauthorized persons from having access to the records, and
(3) Records are inaccessible to unauthorized persons outside of business hours.
(c) The Office shall establish rules restricting access to records to only those individuals within the Office who must have access to such records in order to perform their duties. The Office also shall adopt procedures to prevent the accidental disclosure of records or the accidental granting of access to records.
§ 700.25
Use and collection of social security numbers.
(a) Each system manager of a system of records that utilizes Social Security numbers as a method of identification without statutory authorization, or authorization by regulation adopted prior to January 1, 1975, shall take steps to
revise the system to avoid future collection and use of the Social Security numbers.
(b) The Office shall take such measures as are necessary to ensure that employees authorized to collect information from individuals are advised that individuals may not be required to furnish Social Security numbers without statutory or regulatory authorization and that individuals who are requested to provide Social Security numbers voluntarily must be advised that furnishing the number is not required and that no penalty or denial of benefits will flow from the refusal to provide it.
§ 700.26
Employee standards of conduct.
(a) The Office shall inform its employees of the provisions of the Privacy Act, including the Act's civil liability and criminal penalty provisions. The Office also shall notify its employees that they have a duty to—
(1) Protect the security of records,
(2) Assure the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness of records,
(3) Avoid the unauthorized disclosure, either verbal or written, of records, and
(4) Ensure that the Office maintains no system of records without public notice.
(b) Except to the extent that the Privacy Act permits such activities, an employee of the Office of Independent Counsel shall:
(1) Not collect information of a personal nature from individuals unless the employee is authorized to collect such information to perform a function or discharge a responsibility of the Office;
(2) Collect from individuals only that information that is necessary to the performance of the functions or to the discharge of the responsibilities of the Office;
(3) Collect information about an individual directly from that individual, whenever practicable;
(4) Inform each individual from whom information is collected of—
(i) The legal authority that authorizes the Office to collect such information,
(ii) The principal purposes for which the Office intends to use the information,
(iii) The routine uses the Office may make of the information, and
(iv) The effects upon the individual of not furnishing the information;
(5) Maintain all records that are used by the agency in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as to assure fairness to the individual in the determination;
(6) Except as to disclosures to an agency or pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(2), make reasonable efforts, prior to disseminating any record about an individual, to assure that such records are accurate, relevant, timely, and complete;
(7) Maintain no record concerning an individual's religious or political beliefs or activities, or his membership in associations or organizations, unless—
(i) The individual has volunteered such information for his own benefit,
(ii) A statute expressly authorizes the Office to collect, maintain, use or disseminate the information, or
(iii) The individual's beliefs, activities, or membership are pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law-enforcement or correctional activity;
(8) Notify the head of the Office of the existence or development of any system of records that has not been disclosed to the public;
(9) When required by the Act, maintain an accounting in the prescribed form of all disclosures of records by the Office to agencies or individuals whether verbally or in writing;
(10) Disclose no record to anyone, except within the Office, for any use, unless authorized by the Act;
(11) Maintain and use records with care to prevent the inadvertent disclosure of a record to anyone; and
(12) Notify the head of the Office of any record that contains information that the Act or the foregoing provisions of this paragraph do not permit the Office to maintain.
(c) Not less than once a year, the head of each Office shall review the systems of records maintained by that Office to ensure that the Office is in
compliance with the provisions of the Privacy Act.
§ 700.27
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Subpart B—Exemption of the Office of Independent Counsel's Systems of Records Under the Privacy Act
§ 700.31
Exemption of the Office of Independent Counsel's systems of records—limited access.
(a) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2) and (3); (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I); (e) (5) and (8); (f); and (g):
(1) General Files System of the Office of Independent Counsel (OIC/001).
These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in the system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(b) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosures from records concerning him/her would reveal investigative interest on the part of the Office of Independent Counsel as well as the recipient agency. This would permit record subjects to impede the investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid inquiries or apprehension by law-enforcement personnel. Moreover, the release of the accounting of disclosures made under subsection (b) of the Act, including those disclosures permitted under the routine uses published for these systems would permit the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil or regulatory violation to determine whether he is the subject of an investigation or to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of the investigation, material compiled during the investigation, and the identity of witnesses and informants. Disclosure of the accounting would, therefore, present a serious impediment to law enforcement. In addition, disclosure of the accounting would amount to notice to the individual of the existence of a record; such notice requirement under subsection (f)(1) of the Act is specifically exempted for this system of records.
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed under subsection (d) of the Act. This system is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy Act. Subsection (c)(4), therefore, is inapplicable to this system of records.
(3) From subsection (d) because the records contained in this system relate to official federal investigations. Individual access to these records contained in this system would inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation, of the existence of that investigation, of the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to his activities, of the identities of witnesses and informants, or would provide information that could enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. These factors would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement because they could prevent the successful completion of the investigation, reveal confidential informants, endanger the physical safety of witnesses or informants, and lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony. Individual access also could constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of third parties who are involved in an investigation. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing criminal-law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden.
(4) From subsections (e) (1) and (5) because, in the course of criminal or other law-enforcement investigation, cases and matters, the Office of Independent Counsel may occasionally obtain information concerning actual or potential violations of law that are not strictly within its authority or jurisdiction, or may compile information, the accuracy of which is unclear or
which is not strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is appropriate and necessary to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity. Moreover, it would impede the specific investigative process if it were necessary to ensure the relevance, accuracy, timeliness and completeness of all information obtained. In particular, this would restrict the ability of trained investigators, intelligence analysts, and government attorneys to exercise their judgment in reporting on information and investigations.
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because, in a criminal or other law-enforcement investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement. In such circumstances, the subject of the investigation or prosecution would be informed of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection, apprehension, or legal obligations or duties, as well as to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony.
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because compliance with the requirements of this subsection during the course of an investigation could impede the information-gathering process, thus hampering the investigation. Furthermore, such requirements could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation or reveal the identity of witnesses or confidential informants.
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and (H) because this system is exempt from the individual-access provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy Act.
(8) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the categories of sources of records in this system have been published in the
Federal Register
in broad generic terms in the belief that this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act requires. In the event, however, that this subsection should be interpreted to require more detail as to the identity of sources of the records in these systems, exemption from this provision is necessary in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law-enforcement information. Such exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual-notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement through interference with the Office of Independent Counsel's ability to issue subpoenas and the disclosure of its investigative techniques and procedures.
(10) From subsection (f) because this system is exempt from the individual-access provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy Act. Furthermore, such notice to an individual would be detrimental to the successful conduct and/or completion of an investigation or prosecution pending or future.
(11) From subsection (g) because this system is exempt from the individual-access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) and the provisions of subsection (f) pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy Act.
(c) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4), (G), (H) and (I); (e) (5) and (8); (f) and (g):
(1) Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Files (OIC/002). These exemptions apply to the extent that information in this system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2,) and (k)(5).
(d) Because this system contains Office of Independent Counsel criminal law-enforcement investigatory records, exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject(s) of criminal investigations under investigation or in litigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation, matter or case and present a serious impediment to law-enforcement activities.
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d) of the Act, rendering this subsection inapplicable to the extent that this system of records is exempted from subsection (d).
(3) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of criminal investigation or case of the existence of such, and provide the subject with information that might enable him to avoid detection, apprehension or legal obligations, and present a serious impediment to law enforcement and other civil remedies. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing criminal law-enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden.
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in the courses of criminal investigations, matters or cases, the Office of Independent Counsel often obtains information concerning the violation of laws other than those relating to an active case, matter, or investigation. In the interests of effective law enforcement and criminal litigation, it is necessary that the Office of Independent Counsel retain this information since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for future cases that may be brought within the Office of Independent Counsel.
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual of a criminal investigation or prosecution would present a serious impediment to law enforcement. In such circumstances, the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection, apprehension, or legal obligations and duties.
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because providing individuals supplying information with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement. In those circumstances, it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information, and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(7) From subsection (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) because this system of records is exempt from the individual-access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) and the rules provisions of subsection (f).
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because, in the collection of information for law-enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would inhibit the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual-notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement, i.e., this could interfere with the Office of Independent Counsel's ability to issue subpoenas and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(10) From subsection (f) because this system has been exempted from the individual-access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(11) From subsection (g) because the records in this system are generally compiled for law-enforcement purposes and are exempt from the individual-access and amendment provisions of subsections (d) and (f), this rendering subsection (g) inapplicable.
Pt. 701

# PART 701—PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
Sec.
701.10
General provisions.
701.11
Requirements pertaining to requests.
701.12
Responses by the Office to requests.
701.13
Form and content of Office responses.
701.14
Classified information.
701.15
Business information.
701.16
Appeals.
701.17
Preservation of records.
701.18
Fees.
701.19
Other rights and services.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
53 FR 8895, Mar. 18, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 701.10
General provisions.
(a) This part contains the regulations of the Office of Independent Counsel implementing the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”), 5 U.S.C. 552. Information customarily furnished to the public in the regular course of the performance of official duties may continue to be furnished to the public without complying with this part, provided that the furnishing of such information would not violate the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and would not be inconsistent with regulations issued pursuant to the Privacy Act. To the extent permitted by other laws, the Office will also consider making available records that it is permitted to withhold under the FOIA if it determines that such disclosure would be in the public interest and would not interfere with the functioning of the Office.
(b) As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Appeal
means the appeal by a requester of an adverse determination of his request, as described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(ii).
(2)
Agency
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
(3)
Request
means any request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3).
(4)
Requester
means any person who makes a request to the Office.
(5)
Business information
means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information.
(6)
Business submitter
means any commercial entity that provides business information to the Office and that has a proprietary interest in the information.
(c) The FOIA/PA Officer of the Office of Independent Counsel shall be responsible to Independent Counsel for all matters pertaining to the administration of this part.
(d) The Office of Independent Counsel shall comply with the time limits set forth in the FOIA for responding to and processing requests and appeals, unless there are exceptional circumstances within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(C). The Office shall notify a requester whenever it is unable to respond to or process the request or appeal within the time limits established by the FOIA. The Office shall respond to and process requests and appeals in their approximate order of receipt, to the extent consistent with sound administrative practice.
§ 701.11
Requirements pertaining to requests.
(a)
How made and addressed.
A requester may make a request under this part for a record of the Office of Independent Counsel by writing to the Office at: FOIA/PA Officer, Office of Independent counsel, Suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street NW., Washington, DC 20004. A request should be sent to the Office at its proper address and both the envelope and the request itself should be clearly marked: “Freedom of Information Act Request.”
(b)
Request must reasonably describe the records sought.
A request must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Office personnel to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. A request for a specific category of records shall be regarded as fulfilling this requirement if it enables responsive records to be identified by a technique or process that is not unreasonably burdensome or disruptive of Office operations. Wherever possible, a request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. In addition, if the request seeks records pertaining to pending litigation, the request should indicate the title of the case, the court in which the case was filed, and the nature of the case. If the Office determines that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Office shall either advise the requester what additional information is needed or otherwise state why the request is insufficient. The Office also shall extend to the requester an opportunity to confer with Office personnel with the objective of reformulating the request in a manner that will meet the requirements of this section.
(c)
Agreement to pay fees.
(1) The filing of a request under this part shall be deemed to constitute an agreement by the requester to pay all applicable fees charged under § 701.18 of this part, up to $25, unless a waiver of fees is sought.
The Office shall confirm this agreement in its letter of acknowledgement to the requester. When filing a request, a requester may specify a willingness to pay a greater amount, if applicable.
(2) If a waiver of fees up to $25 is sought in the requester's request to the Office, the Office will make its determination on the fee waiver (and notify the requester as soon as possible) after receipt of the request. The submission of a request for fee waiver will not delay the Office's responsibility to search for responsive records.
(3) If the fee waiver is denied by the Office, and the fees involved total $25 or less, the Office will send the responsive documents to the requester, along with a bill for fees. The collection of the unpaid bill shall follow the procedures found herein at § 701.18 (g)(2) and (h).
§ 701.12
Responses by the Office to requests.
(a)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The head of the Office, or his designee, is authorized to grant or deny and request for a record of the Office.
(b)
Initial action by the Office.
When the Office receives a request for a record in its possession, the Office shall promptly determine whether another agency of the Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt, to any extent, from mandatory disclosure under the FOIA; and whether the record, if exempt to any extent from mandatory disclosure under the FOIA, should nonetheless be released to the requester as a matter of discretion. If the Office determines that it is the agency best able to determine whether to disclose the record in response to the request, then the Office shall respond to the request. If the Office determines that it is not the agency best able to determine whether to disclose the record in response to the request, the Office shall either:
(1) Respond to the request, after consulting with the other agency best able to determine whether to disclose the record and with any other agency having a substantial interest in the requested record or the information contained therein; or
(2) Refer the responsibility for responding to the request to another agency that generated or originated the record, but only if that other agency is subject to the provisions of the FOIA.
Under ordinary circumstances, the agency that generated or originated a requested record shall be presumed to be the agency best able to determine whether to disclose the record in response to the request.
(c)
Law-enforcement information.
Whenever a request is made for a record containing information that relates to an investigation of a possible violation of criminal law or to a criminal law-enforcement proceeding and that was generated or originated by another agency, the Office shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request to that other agency; however, such referral shall extend only to the information generated or originated by that other agency.
(d)
Classified information.
Whenever a request is made for a record containing information that has been classified, or that may be eligible for classification, by another agency under the provisions of Executive Order 12356 or any other Executive Order concerning the classification of records, the Office shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the agency that classified the information or should consider the information for classification. Whenever a record contains information that has been derivatively classified by the Office because it contains information classified by another agency, the Office shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the agency that classified the underlying information; however, such referral shall extend only to the information classified by the other agency.
(e)
Notice of referral.
Whenever the Office refers all or any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, the Office will consult with the other agency to obtain specific approval to notify the requester of the referral and inform the requester of the name and address of the agency to which the request has been referred and the portions of the request so referred.
(f)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
No provision of this section shall preclude formal or informal
agreements between the Office and another agency to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals of requests or classes of requests.
(g)
Separate referrals of portions of a request.
Portions of a request may be referred separately to one or more other agencies whenever necessary to process the request in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(h)
Date for determining responsive records.
In determining records responsive to a request, the Office ordinarily will include only those records within the Office's possession and control as of the date of its receipt of the request.
§ 701.13
Form and content of Office responses.
(a)
Form of notice granting a request.
After the Office has made a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice shall describe the manner in which the record will be disclosed, whether by providing a copy of the record to the requester or by making a copy of the record available to the requester for inspection at a reasonable time and place. The procedure for such an inspection shall not unreasonably disrupt the operations of the Office. The Office shall inform the requester in the notice of any fees to be charged in accordance with the provisions of § 701.18 of this part.
(b)
Form of notice denying a request.
The Office, when denying a request in whole or in part, shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice must be signed by the FOIA/PA Officer, or her designee, and shall include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reason or reasons for the denial, including the FOIA exemption or exemptions that the Office has relied upon in denying the request and a brief explanation of the manner in which the exemption or exemptions apply to each record withheld; and
(3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 701.16(a) and a description of the requirements of that subsection.
(c)
Record cannot be located or has been destroyed.
If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, or is known or believed to have been destroyed or otherwise disposed of, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing.
§ 701.14
Classified information.
In processing a request for information that is classified or classifiable under Executive Order 12356 or any other Executive Order concerning the classification of records, the Office shall review the information to determine whether it warrants classification. Information that does not warrant classification shall not be withheld from a requester on the basis of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1). The Office shall, upon receipt of any appeal involving classified or classifiable information, take appropriate action to ensure compliance with Executive Order 12356 or any other Executive Order concerning the classification of records.
§ 701.15
Business information.
(a)
In general.
Business information provided to the Office by a business submitter shall not be disclosed pursuant to a FOIA request except in accordance with this section.
(b)
Notice to business submitters.
The Office shall provide a business submitter with prompt written notice of a request encompassing its business information whenever required under paragraph (c) of this section, except as is provided in paragraph (g) of this section, and only to the extent permitted by law. Such written notice shall either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records or portions thereof containing the business information.
(c)
When notice is required.
For business information submitted to the Office it shall provide a business submitter with notice of a request whenever the business submitter has in good faith designated the information as commercially or financially sensitive, or the Office has reason to believe that disclosure of the information may result in commercial or financial injury to the business submitter. Notice of a request for business information falling within the former category shall be required for a period of not more than ten years after the date of submission
unless the business submitter requests, and provides acceptable justification for, a specific notice period of greater duration. Whenever possible, the submitter's claim of confidentiality should be supported by a statement or certification by an officer or authorized representative of the company that the information in question is in fact confidential commercial or financial information and has not been disclosed to the public.
(d)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
Through the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Office shall afford a business submitter a reasonable period within which to provide the Office with a detailed statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information under any exemption of the FOIA and, in the case of Exemption 4, shall demonstrate why the information is contended to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by a business submitter pursuant to this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(e)
Notice of intent to disclose.
(1) The Office shall consider carefully a business submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information. Whenever the Office decides to disclose business information over the objection of a business submitter, the Office shall forward to the business submitter a written notice which shall include:
(i) A statement of the reasons for which the business submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;
(ii) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(iii) A specified disclosure date.
(2) Such notice of intent to disclose shall be forwarded a reasonable number of days, as circumstances permit, prior to the specified date upon which disclosure is intended. A copy of such disclosure notice shall be forwarded to the requester at the same time.
(f)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of business information covered by paragraph (c) of this section, the Office shall promptly notify the business submitter.
(g)
Exceptions to notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Office determines that the information should not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or otherwise made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552); or
(4) The Office is a criminal law-enforcement agency that acquired information in the course of a lawful investigation of a possible violation of criminal law.
§ 701.16
Appeals.
(a)
Appeals to Independent Counsel.
When a request for access to records or for a waiver of fees has been denied in whole or in part, or when the Office fails to respond to a request within the time limits set forth in the FOIA, the requester may appeal the denial of the request to Independent Counsel within 30 days of his receipt of a notice denying his request. An appeal to Independent Counsel shall be made in writing and addressed to the Office of Independent Counsel, Suite 701 West, 555 Thirteenth Street NW., Washington, DC 20004. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself must be clearly marked: “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Action on appeals by the Office of Independent Counsel.
Unless Independent Counsel otherwise directs, his designee shall act on behalf of the Independent Counsel on all appeals under this section, except that a denial of a request by Independent Counsel shall constitute the final action of the Office on that request.
(c)
Form of action on appeal.
The disposition of an appeal shall be in writing. A decision affirming in whole or in part the denial of a request shall include a brief statement of the reason or reasons for the affirmance, including each FOIA exemption relied upon and its relation to each record withheld, and a statement that judicial review of the denial is available in the United States District Court for the judicial district in which the requester resides
or has his principal place of business, the judicial district in which the requested records are located, or the District of Columbia. If the denial of a request is reversed on appeal, the requester shall be so notified and the request shall be processed promptly in accordance with the decision on appeal.
§ 701.17
Preservation of records.
The Office shall preserve all correspondence relating to the requests it receives under this part, and all records processed pursuant to such requests, until such time as the destruction of such correspondence and records is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code. Under no circumstances shall records be destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
§ 701.18
Fees.
(a)
In general.
Fees pursuant to the FOIA shall be assessed according to the schedule contained in paragraph (b) of this section for services rendered by the Office in responding to and processing requests for records under this part. All fees so assessed shall be charged to the requester, except when the charging of fees is limited under paragraph (c) of this section or when a waiver or reduction of fees is granted under paragraph (d) of this section. The Office shall collect all applicable fees before making copies of requested records available to a requester. Requesters shall pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Charges.
In responding to requests under this part, the following fees shall be assessed, unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section:
(1)
Search.
(i) No search fee shall be assessed with respect to requests by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, and representatives of the news media (as defined in paragraphs (j)(6), (j)(7), and (j)(8) of this section, respectively). Search fees shall be assessed with respect to all other requests, subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of this section. The Office may assess fees for time spent searching even if it fails to locate any respective record or when records located are subsequently determined to be entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in searching for and retrieving a requested record, the fee shall be $2.25. When the search and retrieval cannot be performed entirely by clerical personnel—for example, when the identification of records within the scope of the request requires the use of professional personnel—the fee shall be $4.50 for each quarter hour of search time spent by such professional personnel. When the time of managerial personnel is required, the fee shall be $7.50 for each quarter hour of time spent by such managerial personnel.
(iii) For computer searches of records, which may be undertaken through the use of existing programming, requesters shall be charged the actual direct costs of conducting the search, although certain requesters (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) shall be entitled to the cost equivalent of two hours of manual search time without charge. These direct costs shall include the cost of operating a central processing unit for that portion of operating time that is directly attributable to searching for records responsive to a request, as well as the costs of operator/programmer salary apportionable to the search (at no more than $4.50 per quarter hour of time so spent). The Office is not required to alter or develop programming to conduct a search.
(2)
Duplication.
Duplication fees shall be assessed with respect to all requesters, subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of this section. For a paper photocopy of a record (no more than one copy of which need be supplied), the fee shall be $0.10 per page. For other methods of duplication, the Office shall charge the actual direct costs of duplicating a record.
(3)
Review.
Review fees shall be assessed with respect to only those requesters who seek records for a commercial use, as defined in paragraph (j)(5) of this section. For each quarter hour spent by agency personnel in reviewing a requested record for possible disclosure, the fee shall be $4.50, except
that when the time of professional personnel is required, the fee shall be $7.50 for each quarter hour of time spent by such managerial personnel. Review fees shall be assessed only for the initial record review,
i.e.,
all of the review undertaken when the Office analyzes the applicability of a particular exemption to a particular record or record portion at the initial request level. No charge shall be assessed for review at the administrative appeal level of an exemption already applied. However, records or record portions withheld pursuant to an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered. The costs of such a subsequent review are properly assessable, particularly when that review is made necessary by a change of circumstances.
(c)
Limitations on charging fees.
(1) No search or review fee shall be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(2) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use (as defined in paragraph (j)(5) of this section), the Office shall provide without charge
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or its cost equivalent), and
(ii) The first two hours of search (or its cost equivalent).
(3) Whenever a total fee calculated under this section is $8.00 or less, no fee shall be charged.
(4) The provisions of paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section work together. For requesters other than those seeking records for a commercial use, no fee shall be charged unless the cost of search in excess of two hours plus the cost of duplication in excess of 100 pages exceeds $8.00.
(d)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Records responsive to a request under the FOIA shall be furnished without charge or at a charge reduced below that established under paragraph (b) of this section when the Officer determines, based upon information provided by a requester in support of a fee waiver request or otherwise made known to the Office, that disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(2) In order to determine whether the first fee waiver requirement is met—
i.e.,
that disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of government—the Office shall consider the following four factors in sequence:
(i)
The subject of the request: Whether the subject of the requested records concerns “the operations or activities of the government.”
The subject matter of the requested records, in the context of the request, must specifically concern the identifiable operations of the federal government—with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated. Furthermore, the records must be sought for their informative value with respect to those government operations or activities; a request for access to records for their intrinsic informational content alone would not satisfy this threshold consideration.
(ii)
The informative value of the information to be disclosed: Whether the disclosure is “likely to contribute” to an understanding or government operations or activities.
The disclosable portions of requested records must be meaningfully informative or specific governmental operations or activities in order to hold potential for contributing to increased public understanding of those operations and activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either a duplicative or a substantially identical form, would not be likely to contribute to such understanding, as nothing new would be added to the public record.
(iii)
The contribution to an understanding of the subject by the public likely to result from disclosure: Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to “public understanding.”
The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of the public at large, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester or a narrow
segment of identified persons. A requester's identity and qualifications—
e.g.,
expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to convey effectively information to the general public—should be considered. It reasonably may be presumed that a representative of the news media (as defined in paragraph (j)(8) of this section) who has access to the means of public dissemination readily will be able to satisfy this consideration. Requests from libraries or other record repositories (or requesters who intend merely to disseminate information to such institutions) shall be analyzed, like those of other requesters, to identify a particular person who represents that he actually will use the requested information in scholarly or other analytic work and then disseminate it to the general public.
(iv)
The significance of the contribution to public understanding: Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute “significantly” to public understanding of government operations or activities.
The public's understanding of the subject matter in question, as compared to the level of public understanding existing prior to the disclosure, must be likely to be enhanced by the disclosure to a significant extent. The Office shall not make separate value judgments as to whether information, even though it in fact would contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government, is “important” enough to be made public.
(3) In order to determine whether the second fee waiver requirement is met—
i.e.,
that disclosure of the requested information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester—the Office shall consider the following two factors in sequence:
(i)
The existence and magnitude of a commercial interest: Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure.
The Office shall consider all commercial interests of the requester (with reference to the definition of “commercial use” in paragraph (j)(5) of this section), or any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, but shall consider only those interests that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. In assessing the magnitude of identified commercial interests, consideration shall be given the role that such FOIA-disclosed information plays with respect to those commercial interests, as well as to the extent to which FOIA disclosures serve those interests overall. Requesters shall be given a reasonable opportunity in the administrative process to provide information bearing upon this consideration.
(ii)
The primary interest in disclosure: Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is “primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.”
A fee waiver or reduction is warranted only when, once the “public interest” standard set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is satisfied, that public interest can fairly be regarded as greater in magnitude than that of the requester's commercial interest in disclosure. The Office shall ordinarily presume that, where a news media requester has satisfied the “public interest” standard, that will be the interest primarily served by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who compile and market governmental information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to serve primarily the “public interest.”
(4) When only a portion of the requested records satisfies both of the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees under this paragraph, a waiver or reduction shall be granted only as to that portion.
(5) Requests for the waiver or reduction of fees shall address each of the factors listed in paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section, as they apply to each record request.
(e)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
When the Office determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed under this section may amount to more than $25.00, the Office shall notify the requester as soon as practicable of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, unless the requester has indicated in advance his willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. (If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the Office shall advise the requester that the estimated fee may be
only a portion of the total fee.) In cases when a requester has been notified that actual or estimated fees may amount to more than $25.00, the request will be deemed not to have been received until the requester has agreed to pay the anticipated total fee. A notice to the requester pursuant to this paragraph shall offer him the opportunity to confer with Office personnel in order to reformulate his request to meet his needs at a lower cost.
(f)
Aggregating requests.
When the Office reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Office may aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. The Office may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to evade fees. When requests are separated by a longer period, the Office shall aggregate them only when there exists a solid basis for determining that such aggregation is warranted,
e.g.,
when the requests involve clearly related matters. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters shall not be aggregated.
(g)
Advance payments.
(1) When the Office estimates that a total fee to be assessed under this section is likely to exceed $250.00, it may require the requester to make an advance payment of an amount up to the entire estimated fee before beginning to process the request, except when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment or where a fee waiver, or reduction of fees, has been requested. In the case where a fee waiver or reduction of fees has been requested, the requester shall submit the advance payment, if required by the agency. This prepayment will not affect the Office's responsibility for speedy determination of the fee waiver, or reduction of fees, nor be deemed in derogation of the request for the fee waiver or reduction of fees. If the agency approves the fee waiver, or reduction of fees, the appropriate sum will be reimbursed to the requester, with no accumulated interest, if any.
(2) When a requester has previously failed to pay a records access fee within 30 days of the date of billing, the Office may require the requester to pay the full amount owned, plus any applicable interest (as provided for in paragraph (h) of this section), and to make an advance payment of the full amount of may estimated fee before the Office begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request from that requester.
(3) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, the Office shall not require the requester to make an advance payment,
i.e.,
a payment made before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed is not an advance payment.
(4) When a component acts under paragraphs (g) (1) or (2) of this section, the administrative time limits prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA for the processing of an initial request or an appeal, plus permissible extensions of these time limits, shall be deemed not to begin to run until the Office has received payment of the assessed fee.
(h)
Charging interest.
The Office may assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the day on which the bill was sent to the requester. Once a fee payment has been received by the Office, even if not processed, the accrual of interest shall be stayed. Interest charges shall be assessed at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of title 31 U.S.C. and shall accrue from the date of the billing. The Office shall follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, Public Law 97-265 (Oct. 25, 1982), 96 Stat. 1749, and its implementing procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(i)
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
(1) The fee schedule of this section does not apply with respect to the charging of fees under a statute specifically providing for setting the level of fees for particular types of records—
i.e.,
any statute that specifically requires a government printing entity such as the Government Printing Office or the National Technical Information Service to set and collect fees for
particular types of records—in order to:
(i) Serve both the general public and private sector organizations by conveniently making available government information;
(ii) Ensure that groups and individuals pay the cost of publications and other services that are for their special use so that these costs are not borne by the general taxpaying public;
(iii) Operate an information-dissemination activity on a self-sustaining basis to the extent possible; or
(iv) Return revenue to the Treasury for defraying, wholly or in part, appropriated funds used to pay the cost of disseminating government information.
(2) When records responsive to requests are maintained for distribution by agencies operating statutorily based fee schedule programs, the Office shall inform requesters of the steps necessary to obtain records from those sources.
(j)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
direct costs
means those expenditures that the Office actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requesters, reviewing) records to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, the salary of the employee performing the work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplicating machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space and heating or lighting of the facility in which the records are stored.
(2) The term
search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. The Office shall ensure, however, that searches are undertaken in the most efficient and least expensive manner reasonably possible; thus, for example, the Office shall not engage in line-by-line search when merely duplicating an entire document would be quicker and less expensive.
(3) The term
duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a record necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microfilm, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation (
e.g.,
magnetic tape or disk), among others. The copy provided shall be in a form that is reasonably usable by requesters.
(4) The term
review
refers to the process of examining a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any record for disclosure,
e.g.,
doing all that is necessary to excise it and otherwise prepare it for release, although review costs shall be recoverable even where there ultimately is no disclosure of a record. Review time does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(5) The term
commercial use
in the context of a request refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. The Office shall determine, as well as reasonably possible, the use to which a requester will put the records requested. When the circumstances of a request suggest that the requester will put the records sought to a commercial use, either because of the nature of the request itself or because the Office otherwise has reasonable cause to doubt a requester's stated use, the Office shall provide the requester a reasonable opportunity to submit further clarification.
(6) The term
educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, and institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must show that the request is being made as authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are
sought in furtherance of scholarly research.
(7) The term
noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis as that term is referenced in paragraph (j)(5) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must show that the request is being made as authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scientific research.
(8) The term
representative of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term
news
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. For “freelance” journalists to be regarded as working for a news organization, they must demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization; a publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Office shall also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester also must not be seeking the requested records for a commercial use. In this regard, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use.
(k)
Charges for other services and materials.
Apart from the other provisions of this section, when the Office elects, as a matter of administrative discretion, to comply with a request for a special service or materials, such as certifying that records are true copies or sending them other than by ordinary mail, the actual direct costs of providing the service or materials shall be charged.
§ 701.19
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under 5 U.S.C. 552.
PARTS 702-799 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. VIII (7-1-25 Edition)
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency

# CHAPTER VIII—COURT SERVICES AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Part
Page
800
Organization and functions
869
801
Federal Tort Claims Act procedure
870
802
Disclosure of records
872
803
Agency seal
892
804
Acceptance of gifts
894
810
Community supervision: administrative sanctions
895
811
Sex offender registration
896
812
Collection and use of DNA information
903
813
Guidance development procedures
907
814
Salary offset procedures
911
815-899
[Reserved]
Pt. 800

# PART 800—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
800.1
Statutory authorization.
800.2
Mission.
800.3
Functions and responsibilities.
800.4
Director.
800.5
Agency components.
Appendix A to Part 800—Agency Addresses

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712 (D.C. Code 24-1232, 24-1233).

# Source:
66 FR 1261, Jan. 8, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 800.1
Statutory authorization.
The National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (“Revitalization Act”) established the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA”) within the federal government as an independent executive branch agency and placed the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency as an independent entity within CSOSA. In addition, the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, an independent District of Columbia agency, receives its appropriated federal funds through a transfer from CSOSA.
§ 800.2
Mission.
CSOSA's mission is to increase public safety, prevent crime, reduce recidivism, and support the fair administration of justice in close collaboration with the community.
§ 800.3
Functions and responsibilities.
(a)
Community Supervision Services.
(1) The Revitalization Act requires CSOSA to provide supervision, through qualified supervision officers, to offenders on probation, parole, and supervised release for violation of District of Columbia Code offenses. The Agency carries out its responsibilities on behalf of the court or agency having jurisdiction over the person being supervised. Accordingly, CSOSA supervises all offenders placed on probation by the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and all individuals on parole pursuant to the District of Columbia Code. CSOSA supervises offenders from other jurisdictions in accordance with the provisions of the Interstate Parole and Probation Compact.
(2) CSOSA is also required to determine uniform supervision and reporting practices, develop and operate intermediate sanctions programs for sentenced offenders, and arrange for the supervision of District of Columbia Code offenders in jurisdictions outside the District of Columbia.
(3) In accordance with its supervisory functions and as authorized by the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (D.C. Law 13-137, D.C. Code 24-1101
et seq.
), CSOSA operates and maintains the sex offender registry for the District of Columbia.
(b)
Pretrial Services.
(1) The District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency (“PSA”) assists the trial and appellate levels of both the federal and local courts in determining eligibility for pretrial release by providing verified background information and criminal histories on all arrestees and recommendations about available release options.
(2) PSA is further responsible for supervising defendants released from custody during the pretrial period by monitoring compliance with conditions of release and by ensuring that they appear for scheduled court hearings.
(3) PSA also provides defendants with the opportunity to participate in a variety of social intervention programs that decrease the likelihood of future criminal behavior.
§ 800.4
Director.
(a) CSOSA is headed by a Director appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a term of six years.
(b) PSA is headed by a Director appointed by the Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and the Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in consultation with an Executive Committee. The Executive Committee includes the four chief judges of the local and Federal trial and appellate courts, the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, the Director of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, and the Director of CSOSA.
§ 800.5
Agency components.
(a)
CSOSA.
(1) Office of the Director (including the Deputy Director).
(2) Office of the General Counsel.
(3) Community Supervision Services.
(4) Office of Community Justice Programs.
(5) Special Criminal Justice Projects.
(6) Office of Planning and Evaluation.
(7) Office of Professional Responsibility.
(8) Equal Employment Opportunity, Diversity, and Special Programs.
(9) Office of Legislative, Intergovernmental, and Public Affairs.
(10) Information Technology Services.
(11) Office of Management and Administration.
(12) Office of Human Resources.
(b)
PSA.
(1) Office of the Director (including the Deputy Director).
(2) Planning, Analysis and Evaluation.
(3) Community Justice Programs.
(4) Office of Operations (including Information Technology and Forensic Toxicology and Drug Testing Laboratory).
(5) Human Resources Management.
(6) Finance and Administration.
Pt. 800, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 800—Agency Addresses

# I. Central Offices
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004
CSOSA Community Supervision Services, 300 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001
District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004

# II. Field Offices

# Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia/Community Supervision Services
CSS Field Office, 409 E. Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001
CSS Field Office, 401 New York Avenue, NE., Washington, DC 20002
CSS Field Office, 1707 Kalorama Road, NW., Washington, DC 20009
CSS Field Office, 1418 Good Hope Road, SE., Washington, DC 20020
CSS Field Office, 3850 S. Capitol Street, SE., Washington, DC 20032
CSS Field Office, 1230 Taylor Street, NW., Washington, DC 20011

# District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency
Office of Operations Branch, 300 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001
Office of Operations Branch, 500 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001
Office of Operations Branch, 333 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001
Office of Operations Branch, 601 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004

# III. FOIA/PA Requests (CSOSA and PSA)
Office of the General Counsel (FOIA), Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004

# IV. Service of Process (CSOSA and PSA, except for PSA subpoenas)
Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004

# V. Tort Claims (CSOSA and PSA)
Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004
Pt. 801

# PART 801—FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT PROCEDURE
Sec.
801.1
Claims filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act.
801.2
Filing a claim.
801.3
Processing the claim.
801.4
Final disposition of claim.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712 (D.C. Code 24-1233); 28 CFR 14.11.

# Source:
67 FR 57948, Sept. 13, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 801.1
Claims filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act.
If an agency employee is acting within the scope of his or her employment and causes injury to a member of the public, any claim for money damages for personal injury, death, damage to property, or loss of property caused by the employee's negligent or wrongful act or omission is a claim against the United States and must first be presented by the injured party to the appropriate federal agency for administrative action under the Federal Tort Claims Act. General provisions for
processing such administrative claims are contained in 28 CFR part 14. The provisions in this part supplement the general provisions in order to describe specific procedures to follow when filing a claim with the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA”) or the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency (“PSA”).
§ 801.2
Filing a claim.
(a)
Who may file the claim?
You may file a claim for money damages against CSOSA or PSA if you believe that a CSOSA or PSA employee has injured you or has damaged or lost property that you own. You may file a claim on behalf of an injured or deceased person or owner of damaged or lost property if you are acting as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, legal or other representative provided you submit evidence of your authority to act on behalf of the claimant.
(b)
What information do you need to submit in your claim?
(1) The easiest way to ensure that you will include all necessary information for your claim is to submit a completed Standard Form 95 (“SF 95”). The SF 95 is available from the Office of the General Counsel, CSOSA, (see address in paragraph (c) of this section) and on the Internet at
http://www.usdoj.gov/civil/forms/forms.htm.
(2) If you do not use the SF 95, you must submit written notification of the incident that resulted in the injury, loss, or damage. Along with this notification, you must present a claim for money damages in a sum certain (that is, a precise dollar amount) for injury to or loss of property, personal injury, or death alleged to have occurred on the basis of the incident. Failure to include the precise dollar amount for your claim may mean that you will have difficulty pursuing your claim in court.
(c)
Where do you submit the claim?
You should submit the claim (whether against CSOSA or PSA) directly to the Office of the General Counsel, CSOSA, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004. Claims submitted to any other office of CSOSA or PSA are forwarded to the Office of the General Counsel.
(d)
When must you submit the claim?
You must submit the claim so that CSOSA/PSA receives the claim within 2 years after the claim accrues. Mailing the claim by that date is not sufficient if CSOSA/PSA does not receive the claim by that date. Generally speaking, a claim accrues at the time of the injury. In those instances where neither the injury nor its cause is immediately apparent, the claim accrues when you discover (or reasonably should discover) the injury and its cause.
(e)
May you amend your claim?
Yes, you may amend your claim at any time prior to final agency action or prior to your filing suit in court.
§ 801.3
Processing the claim.
(a)
Will CSOSA/PSA contact you about your claim?
(1) If you have provided all necessary information to process your claim, you will receive an acknowledgement indicating the filing date (that is, the date CSOSA/PSA received your claim) and the assigned claim number. Refer to the claim number in any further correspondence you may have with CSOSA/PSA on the claim.
(2) If you have failed to include all necessary information, CSOSA/PSA will return your claim to you with a request for the necessary additional information.
(3) If your claim should have been filed with another agency, CSOSA/PSA will forward the claim to the appropriate agency and notify you of the transfer, or return the claim to you if the appropriate agency cannot be determined or if the transfer is otherwise not feasible.
(b)
Who is responsible for offering settlement or denial on the claim?
The General Counsel is responsible for investigating the claim and, after consultation with PSA (if the claim is against PSA) and the Department of Justice when appropriate, determining whether the claim should be settled or denied.
(c)
How long does CSOSA/PSA have to consider your claim?
CSOSA/PSA has 6 months from the date of filing to make a settlement offer or to deny your claim. If you amend your claim (see § 801.2(e)) or request that your claim be reconsidered (see § 801.4(b)(1)), CSOSA/PSA has an additional 6 months from
the date of the amendment or the filing of the request for reconsideration to make a final disposition of the claim.
(d)
Will appreciation or depreciation be considered?
Yes, appreciation or depreciation is considered in settling a claim for lost or damaged property.
§ 801.4
Final disposition of claim.
(a)
What if you accept the settlement offer?
If you accept a settlement offer, you give up your right to bring a lawsuit against the United States or against any employee of the government whose action or lack of action gave rise to your claim.
(b)
What if your claim is denied?
(1) If your claim is denied, you have 30 days from the date of CSOSA/PSA's written notification to make a written request that the agency reconsider the denial.
(2) If your claim is denied or you reject the settlement offer, you have 6 months from the date of mailing of CSOSA/PSA's notice of denial to file a civil action in the appropriate U.S. District Court.
(c)
What if you do not hear from CSOSA/PSA within 6 months of the filing date?
If you do not hear from CSOSA/PSA within 6 months of the filing date for the claim, you may consider your claim denied. You may then proceed with filing a civil action in the appropriate U.S. District Court.
Pt. 802

# PART 802—DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
802.1
Introduction.

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act
802.2
Purpose and scope.
802.3
Information and records for public inspection.
802.4
Guidelines for disclosure.
802.5
Definitions.
802.6
Freedom of Information Act requests.
802.7
Documents from other agencies.
802.8
Expedited processing.
802.9
Business information.
802.10
Fee schedule.

# Subpart C—Privacy Act
802.11
Purpose and scope.
802.12
Definitions.
802.13
Verifying your identity.
802.14
Requests for access to records.
802.15
Denial of request.
802.16
Administrative appeal.
802.17
Documents from other agencies.
802.18
Correction or amendment of record.
802.19
Appeal of denial to correct or amend.
802.20
Accounting of disclosures.
802.21
Appeals.
802.22
Fees.
802.23
Use and disclosure of social security numbers.

# Subpart D—Subpoenas or Other Legal Demands for Testimony or the Production or Disclosure of Records or Other Information
802.24
Purpose and scope.
802.25
Definitions.
802.26
Receipt of demand.
802.27
Compliance/noncompliance.

# Subpart E—Exemption of Record Systems Under the Privacy Act
802.28
Exemption of the Court Services and Offender Supervision System—limited access.
802.29
Exemption of the Pretrial Services Agency System.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712 (DC Code 24-1232, 24-1233); Pub. L. 114-185, 130 Stat. 538 (Jun. 30, 2016).

# Source:
68 FR 32986, June 3, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 802.1
Introduction.
(a) This part contains regulations of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA” or “Agency”) and the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency (“PSA” or “Agency”), which implement the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Privacy Act (PA), 5 U.S.C. 552a. The Agency provides for the disclosure and production of records in response to FOIA/PA requests, a demand from a court, or other non-congressional authority in connection with a proceeding to which the Agency is not a party. Due to CSOSA's nature as a federal agency with a local mission connected to the District of Columbia, exemption protections, including exclusions, are allowed under the FOIA and other safeguard requirements may be applied under the PA.
(b) It is the policy of CSOSA that all employees of CSOSA and PSA (collectively the “Agency”) are to submit all FOIA/PA requests to the Office of General Counsel (“OGC”). The OGC shall make release determinations under either the FOIA/PA pursuant to the procedures set forth in sections §§ 802.6, 802.7, 802.8, 802.14, 802.15, and 802.16.
[82 FR 13556, Mar. 14, 2017]

# Subpart B—Freedom of Information Act

# Source:
82 FR 13556, Mar. 14, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 802.2
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to establish procedures for the release of records in the custody, possession or control of the Agency pursuant to the provisions of the FOIA as amended by the
FOIA Improvement Act of 2016
(Pub. L. 114-185).
(b) The Director of CSOSA has designated the General Counsel to be the Chief FOIA Officer as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(j).
(c) The Chief FOIA Officer shall designate at least one FOIA Public Liaison as defined in 5 U.S.C 552(j)(2)(H) and 552(l) for assisting in reducing delays, increasing transparency, understanding the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes.
§ 802.3
Information and records for public inspection.
(a)
Public inspection.
In accordance with this section, CSOSA makes the following information and materials available for public inspection pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552:
(1) The Agency's publications in the
Federal Register
for the guidance of the public.
(2) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, as well as orders, made in the adjudication of cases.
(3) The Agency's policy statements that have been adopted by the Agency and are not published in the
Federal Register
.
(4) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public.
(5) Copies of all records, regardless of format, that have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records or have been requested three or more times; and these available records exclude first party requests.
(6) Reports available for public inspection shall be available:
(i) In a timely manner;
(ii) With raw statistical data in electronic format;
(iii) In a general index;
(iv) Without charge, license, or registration requirement;
(v) In an aggregated, searchable format;
(vi) In a format that may be downloaded in bulk; and
(vii) Which include, but are not limited to the:
(A) Chief FOIA Officer Report;
(B) Annual FOIA Report; and
(C) Quarterly FOIA Report.
(7) An index of all major information systems of the agency.
(8) A description of major information and record locator systems maintained by the agency.
(9) A handbook for obtaining various types of categories of public information from the Agency pursuant to chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code, and under this section.
(b)
Preservation of records.
(1) All agency correspondence as well as copies of all requested records shall be preserved until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to Title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).
(2) The agency will not dispose of or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
§ 802.4
Guidelines for disclosure.
(a) The authority to release, partially release, or deny access to records and information under the FOIA is limited to the Chief FOIA Officer, FOIA Public Liaison, and his or her designee.
(b) An Agency record will be released in response to a written request, unless a valid legal exemption and/or exclusion to disclosure is asserted.
(1) Any applicable exemption and/or exclusion to disclosure, which is provided under the FOIA in 5 U.S.C. 552, may be asserted. The applicable exemptions and/or exclusions to disclosure are as follows:
(i)
Exclusions.
(A) Where the subject of a criminal investigation or proceeding is unaware of the existence of records concerning a pending investigation and disclosure of such records would interfere with the investigation.
(B) Where there are informant records maintained by a criminal law enforcement agency and the individual's status as an informant is not known.
(C) Where there are classified FBI records pertaining to foreign intelligence, counterintelligence or international terrorism records.
(ii)
Exemptions.
(A) Information that is classified to protect national security.
(B) Information related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency.
(C) Information that is prohibited from disclosure by another federal law.
(D) Trade secrets or commercial or financial information that is confidential or privileged.
(E) Privileged communications within or between agencies, including:
(
1
) Deliberative process privilege;
(
2
) Attorney-work product privilege; and
(
3
) Attorney-client privilege.
(F) Information that, if disclosed, would invade another individual's personal privacy.
(G) Information compiled for law enforcement purposes that:
(
1
) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings.
(
2
) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication.
(
3
) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(
4
) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(
5
) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions.
(
6
) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(H) Information that concerns the supervision of financial institutions.
(I) Geological information on wells.
(2) A record must exist and be in the possession and control of the Agency at the time of the request to be considered subject to this part and the FOIA. There is no obligation to create, compile, or obtain a record to satisfy a FOIA request.
§ 802.5
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
Agency
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(f).
(b)
Appeal
means a request for a review of the agency's determination with regard to a fee waiver, category of requester, expedited processing, or denial in whole or in part of a request for access to a record or records.
(c)
Business information
means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information.
(d)
Business submitter
means any entity which provides business information to the Agency and which has a proprietary interest in the information.
(e)
Computer software
means tools by which records are created, stored, and retrieved. Normally, computer software, including source code, object code, and listings of source and object codes, regardless of medium, are not agency records. Proprietary (or copyrighted) software is not an agency record.
(f)
Confidential commercial information
means records provided to the government by a submitter that arguably contain material exempt from release under Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), because disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
(g)
Duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a record in order to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microform, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation (
e.g.,
magnetic tape or disk), among others.
(h)
Electronic records
mean those records and information which are created, stored, and retrievable by electronic means. This ordinarily does not include computer software, which is a tool by which to create, store, or retrieve electronic records.
(i)
Record
is defined pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3301.
(j)
Request
means any request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3).
(k)
Requester
means any person who makes a request for access to records.
(l)
Review
for fee purposes, refers to the process of examining records located in response to a commercial use request to determine whether any portion of any record located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any records for disclosure;
e.g.,
doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release.
(m)
Search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within records. Searches may be done manually or by automated means.
§ 802.6
Freedom of Information Act requests.
(a)
Submission and processing procedures.
(1) Requests for any record (including policy) ordinarily will be processed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. Your request must be made in writing and addressed to the FOIA Public Liaison Officer, Office of the General Counsel FOIA Office, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 12th Floor, Washington, DC 20004. The requester should clearly mark on the face of the letter and the envelope “Freedom of Information Act Request.”
(2) Your request will be considered received as of the date it is received by CSOSA's FOIA Office.
(3) Generally, all FOIA requests will be processed in the approximate order of receipt, unless the requester shows exceptional circumstances exist to justify an expedited response (
see
§ 802.8).
(4) You must describe the records that you seek in enough detail to enable Agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient and subject matter of the record. As a general rule, the more specific you are about the records or type of records that you want, the more likely the Agency will be able to locate the records in response to your request. If a determination is made that your request does not reasonably describe records, the Agency will tell you either what additional information is needed or why your request is otherwise insufficient. You will be given the opportunity to discuss your request so that you may modify it to meet the requirements of this section.
(5)(i)
Requests by offender/defendant for offender's records.
(A) An offender/defendant making a FOIA/PA request must provide his or her full name, current address, and date of birth. In addition, the requester must provide with the request his or her signature, which must be either notarized or sworn under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746, and dated within three (3) months of the date of the request.
(B) To assist in properly identifying requested records, the OGC and/or FOIA Office may request that the offender/defendant provide his/her DCDC or PDID number.
(ii)
Requests for offender records on behalf of an offender/defendant.
(A) A request for records made by an authorized representative of an offender/defendant will only be released with the subject's written authorization with appropriate releases. This authorization and releases must be dated within thirty (30) days of the date of the request letter and must be signed by the offender/defendant.
(B) To assist in properly identifying requested records, the OGC and/or FOIA Office may request that the offender/defendant provided his/her DCDC or PDID number.
(6) You must state in your request a firm agreement to pay the fees for search, duplication, and review as may ultimately be determined. The agreement may state the upper limit (but not less than $10.00) that the requester
is willing to pay for processing the request. A request that fees be waived or reduced may accompany the agreement to pay fees and will be considered to the extent that such request is made in accordance with § 802.4(b) and provides supporting information to be measured against the fee waiver standard set forth in § 802.9(g). The requester shall be notified in writing of the decision to grant or deny the fee waiver. If a requester has an outstanding balance of search, review, or duplication fees due for FOIA request processing, the requirements of this paragraph (a)(6) are not met until the requester has remitted the outstanding balance due.
(b)
Release determination
—(1)
Notification.
You will be notified of the decision on the request within twenty (20) days after its receipt (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).
(i) The twenty (20) day period shall be tolled if:
(A) The Agency needs clarification and/or more information from the requester; or
(B) Clarification is needed with the requester regarding fee assessment.
(C) The agency's receipt of the requester's response to the agency's request for information or clarification ends the tolling period.
(ii) The twenty (20) day period shall be extended for ten (10) additional working days with written notice to the requester for unusual circumstances.
(A) Unusual circumstances means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of particular requests—
(
1
) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(
2
) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(
3
) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject-matter interest therein.
(B) The written notice to the requester for unusual circumstances shall:
(
1
) Notify the person making the request if the request cannot be processed within the time limit specified;
(
2
) Provide the person an opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within that time limit or an opportunity to arrange with the agency an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request;
(
3
) Make available the Agency's FOIA Public Liaison Officer, who shall assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requester the Agency; and
(
4
) Notify the requester of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
(iii) When the Agency fails to comply with the applicable time limit provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, if the Agency can show exceptional circumstances exist and that the Agency is exercising due diligence in responding to the request, the Agency may be allowed additional time to complete its review of the records.
(A) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), the term “exceptional circumstances” does not include a delay that results from a predictable agency workload of requests under this section, unless the agency demonstrates reasonable progress in reducing its backlog of pending requests.
(B) Refusal by a person to reasonably modify the scope of a request or arrange an alternative time frame for processing a request (or a modified request) after being given an opportunity to do so by the Agency to whom the person made the request shall be considered as a factor in determining whether exceptional circumstances exist for purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii).
(2)
Denial in whole or in part.
If it is determined that the request for records should be denied in whole or in part, the requester shall be notified by mail with a letter stating the basis for partial or whole denial. The letter of notification shall:
(i) Be signed by the Chief FOIA Officer or his or her designee;
(ii) State the exemptions relied on to not release the information;
(A) Advise the requester of the reason of adverse determination and the right to administrative appeal in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;
(B) Advise the right of such person to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison Officer of the agency; and
(C) Advise the right of such person to seek assistance from the Office of Government Information Services;
(iii) If technically feasible, indicate the amount of information deleted at the place in the record where such deletion is made (unless providing such indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption relied upon to deny such material);
(iv) If a document contains information exempt from disclosure, any reasonably segregable portion of the record will be provided to you after deletion of the exempt portions;
(v) An agency shall—
(A) Withhold information under this section only if—
(
1
) The agency reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(
2
) Disclosure is prohibited by law; and
(B) Partially withhold information under this section only if—
(
1
) Partial disclosure of information is possible whenever the agency determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible; and
(
2
) Take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information; and
(vi) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(2) requires disclosure of information that is otherwise prohibited from disclosure by law, or otherwise exempted from disclosure by statute.
(3)
No records found.
If it is determined, after a thorough search for records by the responsible official or his delegate, that no records have been found to exist, the Chief FOIA Officer or his/her designee will so notify the requester in writing. The letter of notification will advise the requester of his or her right to administratively appeal within ninety (90) of the determination that no records exist (
i.e.,
to challenge the adequacy of the search for responsive records) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The response shall specify the official or office to which the appeal shall be submitted for review.
(c)
Administrative appeal.
(1) A requester may appeal an initial determination when:
(i) Access to records has been denied in whole or in part;
(ii) There has been an adverse determination of the requester's category as provided in § 802.10(d);
(iii) Inadequacy of the FOIA search;
(iv) A request for fee waiver or reduction has been denied; or
(v) It has been determined that no responsive records exist.
(2) Appeals must be made within ninety (90) days of the receipt of the letter with an adverse determination. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 13th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 and must be clearly marked “Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Appeal.”
(3) The General Counsel will make an appeal determination within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) from the date of receipt of the appeal. However, for a good reason, this time limit may be extended up to an additional ten (10) days. If, after review, the General Counsel determines that additional information should be released, it will accompany the appeal response. If, after review, the General Counsel determines to uphold the initial review, we will inform you.
§ 802.7
Documents from other agencies.
(a)
Documents from or relating to Federal agencies.
(1) When a request for records includes a document that originated from another Federal agency, the document will be referred to the originating Federal agency for release determination, unless the information requested is for records created 25 years or more before the date on which
the records were requested, in which case CSOSA will release them without referral and/or consultation with the other federal agency. The requester will be informed of the referral. This is not a denial of a FOIA request; thus, no appeal rights accrue to the requester.
(2) When a FOIA request is received for a record created by the Agency that includes information by another Federal agency, the record will be sent to the other Federal agency that has equities in the record. The consultation will request that the other Federal agency review and provide recommendations on disclosure. The Agency will not release any such record without prior consultation with the other Federal agency that has equities in the record.
(b)
Documents from non-Federal agencies.
When a request for records includes a document from a non-Federal agency, CSOSA staff must make a release determination.
(1) A release determination on the records from non-Federal agencies shall be analyzed on a case-by-case to determine if CSOSA or the non-Federal agency is best able to decide a record's sensitivity, and in turn its exemption status, in which case:
(i) The requester will be re-routed to submit a separate FOIA request to the non-Federal agency; or
(ii) CSOSA will consult with the non-Federal agency only if the non-Federal agency will provide a consultation within five (5) business days.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 802.8
Expedited processing.
(a) Requests and appeals will be taken out of order and given expedited treatment whenever CSOSA's FOIA Office determines that they involve:
(1) Circumstances in which the person requesting the records demonstrates a compelling need.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1), the term “compelling need” means—
(A) Failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(B) A person is primarily engaged in disseminating information and the urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity is a matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the government's integrity.
(
1
) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information that affect public confidence, the requester must adequately explain the matter or activity and why it is necessary to provide the records being sought on an expedited basis.
(
i
) A person “primarily engaged in disseminating information” does not include individuals who are engaged only incidentally in the dissemination of information.
(
ii
) The standard of “widespread and exceptional media interest” requires that the records requested pertain to a matter of current exigency to the American public and that delaying a response to a request for records would compromise a significant recognized interest to and throughout the general public. The requester must adequately explain the matter or activity and why it is necessary to provide the records being sought on an expedited basis.
(
2
) [Reserved]
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) [Reserved]
(b) If a requester seeks expedited processing, the requester must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of your knowledge and belief. The statement must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746, “I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date].”
(c) The determination as to whether to grant or deny the request for expedited processing will be made, and the requester notified, within ten (10) days after the date of the request. Because a decision to take a FOIA request out of order delays other requests, simple fairness demands that such a decision be made by the FOIA Public Liaison Officer only upon careful scrutiny of truly exceptional circumstances. The decision will be made solely based on the information contained in the initial letter requesting expedited processing.
(d) Appeals of initial determinations to deny expedited processing must be made promptly. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 12th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 and must be clearly marked “Expedited Processing Appeal.”
(e) The OGC or his or designee will make an appeal determination regarding expedited processing as soon as practicable.
§ 802.9
Business information.
(a)
In general.
Business information provided to the Agency by a business submitter will be disclosed pursuant to the FOIA, unless exemptions and/or exclusions apply. Any claim of confidentiality must be supported by a statement by an authorized representative of the company providing specific justification that the information in question is in fact confidential commercial or financial information and has not been disclosed to the public.
(b)
Notice to business submitters.
The Agency will provide a business submitter with prompt written notice of receipt of a request or appeal encompassing its business information whenever required in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and except as is provided in paragraph (g) of this section. Such written notice shall either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records or portions of records containing the business information.
(c)
When notice is required.
(1) Notice of a request for business information falling within paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section will be required for a period of not more than ten years after the date of submission unless the business submitter had requested, and provided acceptable justification for, a specific notice period of greater duration.
(2) The Agency shall provide a business submitter with notice of receipt of a request or appeal whenever:
(i) The business submitter has in good faith designated the information as commercially or financially sensitive information; or
(ii) The Agency has reason to believe that disclosure of the information could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
(d)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) Through the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Agency shall afford a business submitter ten (10) days from the date of the notice (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) to provide a detailed statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement shall specify why the business submitter believes the information is considered to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by a business submitter pursuant to this paragraph might itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(2) When notice is given to a submitter under this section, the requester shall be advised that such notice has been given to the submitter. The requester shall be further advised that a delay in responding to the request may be considered a denial of access to records and that the requester may proceed with an administrative appeal or seek judicial review, if appropriate. However, the requester will be invited to agree to a voluntary extension of time so that staff may review the business submitter's objection to disclose.
(e)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The Agency will consider carefully a business submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information. Whenever a decision to disclose business information over the objection of a business submitter is made, the Agency shall forward to the business submitter a written notice which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reasons for which the business submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;
(2) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date which is not less than five (5) days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the notice of the final
decision to release the requested information has been mailed to the submitter.
(f)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of business information covered by paragraph (c) of this section, the Agency shall promptly notify the business submitter.
(g)
Exception to notice requirement.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Agency determines that the information shall not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or otherwise made available to the public; or
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552).
§ 802.10
Fee schedule.
(a)
Fees.
The fees described in this section conform to the Office of Management and Budget Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines. They reflect direct costs for search, review (in the case of commercial requesters), and duplication of documents, collection of which is permitted by the FOIA. However, for each of these categories, the fees may be limited, waived, or reduced for the reasons given below or for other reasons.
(b)
Types of cost.
The term
direct costs
means those expenditures the agency actually makes in searching for, review (in the case of commercial requesters), and duplicating documents to respond to a FOIA request.
(c)
Types of fees.
Fees shall be charged in accordance with the schedule contained in paragraph (i) of this section for services rendered in responding to requests for records, unless any one of the following applies:
(1) Services were performed without charge; or
(2) The fees were waived or reduced in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(d)
Categories of fees.
Specific levels of fees are prescribed for each of the following categories of requesters:
(1)
Commercial use requesters.
These requesters are assessed charges, which recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating the records sought. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to two hours of free search time or 100 free pages of duplication of documents. Moreover, when a request is received for disclosure that is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Agency is not required to consider a request for a waiver or reduction of fees based upon the assertion that disclosure would be in the public interest. The Agency may recover the cost of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, or no records are located.
(2)
Educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters.
Records shall be provided to requesters in these categories for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible, requesters must show that the request is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research. These categories do not include requesters who want records for use in meeting individual academic research or study requirements.
(3)
Requesters who are representatives of the news media.
Records shall be provided to requesters in this category for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.
(4)
All other requesters.
Requesters who do not fit any of the categories described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section shall be charged fees that will recover the full direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. The Agency may recover the cost of searching for records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, or no records are located. Requests from persons for records about themselves filed in a systems of records shall continue to be treated under the fee provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 which permit fees only for duplication.
(e)
Fee waiver determination.
Where the initial request includes a request
for reduction or waiver of fees, the responsible official shall determine whether to grant the request for reduction or waiver before processing the request and notify the requester of this decision. If the decision does not waive all fees, the responsible official shall advise the requester of the fact that fees shall be assessed and, if applicable, payment must be made in advance pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(f)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Fees may be waived or reduced on a case-by-case basis in accordance with this paragraph (f)(1) by the official who determines the availability of the records, provided such waiver or reduction has been requested in writing. Fees shall be waived or reduced by this official when it is determined, based upon the submission of the requester, that a waiver or reduction of the fees is in the public interest because furnishing the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Fee waiver/reduction requests shall be evaluated against the current fee waiver policy guidance issued by the Department of Justice.
(2) Appeals from denials of requests for waiver or reduction of fees shall be decided in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section by the official authorized to decide appeals from denials of access to records. Appeals shall be addressed in writing to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, Office of the General Counsel, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 13th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 within thirty (30) days of the denial of the initial request for waiver or reduction and shall be decided within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays).
(3) Appeals from an adverse determination of the requester's category as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section shall be decided by the official authorized to decide appeals from denials of access to records and shall be based upon a review of the requester's submission and the Agency's own records. Appeals shall be addressed in writing to the office or officer specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the Agency's determination of the requester's category and shall be decided within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays).
(g)
Advance notice of fees.
(1) When the fees for processing the request are estimated to exceed the limit set by the requester, and that amount is less than $250.00, the requester shall be notified of the estimated costs. The requester must provide an agreement to pay the estimated costs; however, the requester will also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in an attempt to reduce fees.
(2) If the requester has failed to state a limit and the costs are estimated to exceed $250.00, the requester shall be notified of the estimated costs and must pre-pay such amount prior to the processing of the request, or provide satisfactory assurance of full payment if the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees. The requester will also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in an attempt to reduce fees.
(h)
Form of payment.
(1) Payment may be made by check or money order payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(2) The Agency reserves the right to request prepayment after a request is processed and before documents are released in the following circumstances.
(i) When costs are estimated or determined to exceed $250.00, the Agency shall either obtain satisfactory assurance of full payment of the estimated cost where the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees or require the requester to make an advance payment of the entire estimated or determined fee before continuing to process the request.
(ii) If a requester has previously failed to pay a fee within thirty (30) days of the date of the billing, the requester shall be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the Agency begins to process a new request or the pending request. Whenever interest is charged, the Agency shall begin assessing interest
on the 31st day following the day on which billing was sent. Interest shall be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(i)
Amounts to be charged for specific services.
The fees for services performed by an employee of the Agency shall be imposed and collected as set forth in this paragraph (i).
(1)
Duplicating records.
All requesters, except commercial requesters, shall receive the first 100 pages duplicated without charge; the first two hours of search time free; or charge which total $10.00 or less. Fees for the copies are to be calculated as follows:
(i) The duplication cost is calculated by multiplying the number of pages in excess of 100 by $0.25.
(ii) Photographs, films, and other materials—actual cost of duplication.
(iii) Other types of duplication services not mentioned above—actual cost.
(iv) Material provided to a private contractor for copying shall be charged to the requester at the actual cost charged by the private contractor.
(2)
Search services.
The cost of search time is calculated by multiplying the number of quarter hours in excess of two hours by the following rates for the staff conducting the search:
(i) $7.00 per quarter hour for clerical staff;
(ii) $10.00 per quarter hour for professional staff; and
(iii) $14.00 per quarter hour for managerial personnel.
(3)
Only fees in excess of $10.00 will be assessed.
This means that the total cost must be greater than $10.00, either for the cost of the search (for time in excess of two hours), for the cost of duplication (for pages in excess of 100), or for both costs combined.
(j)
Searches for electronic records.
The Agency shall charge for actual direct cost of the search, including computer search time, runs, and the operator's salary. The fee for computer output shall be actual direct costs. For requesters in the “all other” category, when the cost of the search (including the operator time and the cost of operating the computer to process a request) equals the equivalent dollar amount of two hours of the salary of the person performing the search (
i.e.,
the operator), the charge for the computer search will begin.
(k)
Aggregating requests.
When the Agency reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Agency shall aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly.
(l) The agency shall not assess any search fees (or in the case of an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, or a representative of the news media—duplication fees) under this paragraph (l) if the agency has failed to comply with any time limit under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6) and § 802.6(b)(1).
(1) If an agency has determined that unusual circumstances apply (as the term is defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)) and the agency provided a timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), a failure described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) is excused for an additional 10 days. If the agency fails to comply with the extended time limit, the agency may not assess any search fees (or in the case of a requester as described under this paragraph (l)(1), duplication fees).
(2) If an agency has determined that unusual circumstances apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, an agency may charge search fees (or in the case of a requester described under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, duplication fees) if the agency has provided a timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) and the agency has discussed with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than 3 good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).
(3) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist (as that term is defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(C)), a failure described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

# Subpart C—Privacy Act
§ 802.11
Purpose and scope.
The regulations in this subpart apply to all records which are contained in a system of records maintained by the Agency and which are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. This subpart implements the Privacy Act by establishing Agency policy and procedures providing for the maintenance of and guaranteed access to records. Under these procedures:
(a) You can ask us whether we maintain records about you or obtain access to your records; and
(b) You may seek to have your record corrected or amended if you believe that your record is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant.
§ 802.12
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
Agency
has the meaning as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
(b)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(c)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(d)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Agency. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint or a photograph.
(e)
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(f)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.
(g)
Routine use
means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected.
(h)
Request for access
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).
(i)
Request for amendment
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).
(j)
Request for accounting
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).
§ 802.13
Verifying your identity.
(a)
Requests for your own records.
When you make a request for access to records about yourself, you must verify your identity. You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. You must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized or submitted by you under 28 U.S.C. 1746. In order to help the identification and location of requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number.
(b)
Requests on behalf of another.
Information that concerns an individual and that is contained in a system of records maintained by the Agency shall not be disclosed to any person, or to another agency, except under the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(c)
Disclosure criteria.
Staff may disclose information from an agency system of records only if one or more of the following criteria apply:
(1) With the written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains.
(2) Pursuant to a specific exception listed under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)). For example, specific exceptions allow disclosure:
(i) To employees within the Agency who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties.
(ii) If disclosure is required under FOIA when the public interest in disclosure of the information outweighs the privacy interest involved.
(iii) For a routine use described in the agency system of records as published in the
Federal Register.
(A) The published notices for these systems describe the records contained in each system and the routine uses for
disclosing these records without first obtaining the consent of the person to whom the records pertain.
(B) CSOSA publishes notices of system of records, including all pertinent routine uses, in the
Federal Register.
§ 802.14
Requests for access to records.
(a)
Submission and processing procedures.
(1) Requests for any agency record about yourself ordinarily will be processed pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. Such a request must be made in writing and addressed to the FOIA Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004. The requester should clearly mark on the face of the letter and the envelope “Privacy Act Request.”
(2) Your request will be considered received as of the date it is received by the Office of the General Counsel. For quickest possible handling, you should mark both your request letter and the envelope “Privacy Act Request.”
(3) You must describe the records that you seek in enough detail to enable Agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient and subject matter of the record. As a general rule, the more specific you are about the records or type of records that you want, the more likely the Agency will be able to locate the records in response to your request. If a determination is made that your request does not reasonably describe records, the Agency will tell you either what additional information is needed or why your request is otherwise insufficient. You will be given the opportunity to discuss your request so that you may modify it to meet the requirements of this section.
(b)
Release and review procedures.
Upon written request by an individual to gain access to his or her records which are not otherwise exempted, CSOSA shall permit the individual and, upon the individual's request, a person of his or her choosing to accompany him or her, to review the record and have a copy of all or any portion of the record. If a document contains information exempt from disclosure under the Privacy Act, any reasonably segregable portion of the record will be provided to the requester after deletion of the exempt portions.
(2) A requester will be notified of the decision on the request in writing.
(3) Generally, all Privacy Act requests will be processed in the approximate order of receipt, unless the requester shows exceptional circumstances exist to justify an expedited response (
see
§ 802.8).
§ 802.15
Denial of request.
(a)
Denial in whole or in part.
If it is determined that the request for records should be denied in whole or in part, the requester shall be notified by mail. The letter of notification shall:
(1) State the PA and FOIA exemptions relied on in not granting the request;
(2) If technically feasible, indicate the amount of information deleted at the place in the record where such deletion is made (unless providing such indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption relied upon to deny such material);
(3) Set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official;
(4) Advise the requester of the right to an administrative appeal in accordance with § 802.16; and
(5) Specify the official or office to which such appeal shall be submitted.
(b)
No records found.
If it is determined, after a thorough search for records by the responsible official or his delegate, that no records have been found to exist, the responsible official will so notify the requester in writing. The letter of notification will advise the requester of the right to administratively appeal the determination that no records exist (
i.e.,
to challenge the adequacy of the search for responsive records) in accordance with § 802.16. The notification shall specify the official or office to which the appeal shall be submitted for review.
§ 802.16
Administrative appeal.
(a) A requester may appeal an Agency initial determination when:
(1) Access to records has been denied in whole or in part; or
(2) It has been determined that no responsive records exist.
(b) Appeals of initial determinations must be made within 30 days of the receipt of the letter denying the request. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Room 1220, Washington, DC 20004 and must be clearly marked “Privacy Act Appeal.”
(c) The General Counsel will make an appeal determination within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) from the date of receipt of the appeal. However, for a good reason, this time limit may be extended. If, after review, the General Counsel determines that additional information should be released, it will accompany the appeal response. If, after review, the General Counsel determines to uphold the initial review, we will inform you of that decision.
§ 802.17
Documents from other agencies.
(a)(1)
Documents from or pertaining to Federal agencies.
When a request for records includes a document from another Federal agency, the document will be referred to the originating Federal agency for a determination of its releasability. The requester will be informed of the referral. This is not a denial of a Privacy Act request; thus no appeal rights accrue to the requester.
(2) When a Privacy Act request is received for a record created by the Agency that includes information originated by another Federal agency, the record will be referred to the originating agency for review and recommendation on disclosure. The Agency will not release any such record without prior consultation with the originating agency.
(b)
Documents from non-Federal agencies.
When a request for records includes a document from a non-Federal agency, CSOSA staff must make a determination of its releasability.
§ 802.18
Correction or amendment of records.
This section applies to all records kept by the Agency except for records of earnings. If you believe your record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, you may request that your record be corrected or amended. A request for correction or amendment must identify the particular record in question, state the correction or amendment sought, and set forth the justification for the correction. To amend or correct your record, you should write to the Office of the General Counsel identified in § 802.14(a)(1). You should submit any available evidence to support your request. Both the request and the envelope must be clearly marked “Privacy Act Correction Request.” Your request should indicate:
(a) The system of records from which the record is retrieved;
(b) The particular record which you want to correct or amend;
(c) Whether you want to add, delete or substitute information in the records; and
(d) Your reasons for believing that your record should be corrected or amended.
§ 802.19
Appeal of denial to correct or amend.
(a) The system manager may grant or deny requests for correction of agency records. One basis for denial may be that the records are contained in an agency system of records that has been published in the
Federal Register
and exempted from the Privacy Act provisions allowing amendment and correction.
(1) Any denial of a request for correction should contain a statement of the reason for denial and notice to the requester that the denial may be appealed to the General Counsel by filing a written appeal.
(2) The appeal should be marked on the face of the letter and the envelope, “PRIVACY APPEAL—DENIAL OF CORRECTION,” and be addressed to the Office of the General Counsel, address cited at § 802.14(a)(1).
(3) The General Counsel will review your request within 30 days from the date of receipt. However, for a good reason, this time limit may be extended. If, after review, the General Counsel determines that the record should be corrected, the record will be corrected. If, after review, the General
Counsel refuses to amend the record exactly as you requested, we will inform you:
(i) That your request has been refused and the reason;
(ii) That this refusal is the Agency's final decision;
(iii) That you have a right to seek court review of this request to amend the record; and
(iv) That you have a right to file a statement of disagreement with the decision. Your statement should include the reason you disagree. We will make your statement available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with a statement of our reasons for refusing to amend the record.
(b) Requests for correction of records prepared by other federal agencies shall be forwarded to that agency for appropriate action and the requester will be immediately notified of the referral in writing.
(c) When the request is for correction of non-Federal records, the requester will be advised to write to that non-Federal entity.
§ 802.20
Accounting of disclosures.
(a) We will provide an accounting of all disclosures of a record for five years or until the record is destroyed, whichever is longer, except that no accounting will be provided to the record subject for disclosures made to law enforcement agencies and no accounting will be made for:
(1) Disclosures made under the FOIA;
(2) Disclosures made within the agency; and
(3) Disclosures of your record made with your written consent.
(b) The accounting will include:
(1) The date, nature, and purpose of the disclosure; and
(2) The name and address of the person or entity to whom the disclosure is made.
(c) You may request access to an accounting of disclosures of your record. Your request should be in accordance with the procedures in § 802.14. You will be granted access to an accounting of the disclosures of your record in accordance with the procedures of this part which govern access to the related record, excepting disclosures made for an authorized civil or criminal law enforcement agency as provided by subsection (c)(3) of the Privacy Act. You will be required to provide reasonable identification.
§ 802.21
Appeals.
You may appeal a denial of a request for an accounting to the Office of the General Counsel in the same manner as a denial of a request for access to records (See § 802.16) and the same procedures will be followed.
§ 802.22
Fees.
The Agency shall charge fees under the Privacy Act for duplication of records only. These fees shall be at the same rate the Agency charges for duplication fees under the Freedom of Information Act (
See
§ 802.10(i)(1)).
§ 802.23
Use and disclosure of social security numbers.
(a)
In general.
An individual shall not be denied any right, benefit, or privilege provided by law because of such individual's refusal to disclose his or her social security number.
(b)
Exceptions.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply with respect to:
(1) Any disclosure which is required by Federal statute, or
(2) The disclosure of a social security number to any Federal, State, or local agency maintaining a system of records in existence and operating before January 1, 1975, if such disclosure was required under statute or regulation adopted prior to such date to verify the identity of an individual.
(c)
Requests for disclosure of social security number.
If the Agency requests an individual to disclose his or her social security account number, we shall inform that individual whether:
(1) Disclosure is mandatory or voluntary.
(2) By what statutory or other authority such number is solicited, and
(3) What uses will be made of it.

# Subpart D—Subpoenas or Other Legal Demands for Testimony or the Production or Disclosure of Records or Other Information
§ 802.24
Purpose and scope.
(a) These regulations state the procedures which the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency (“CSOSA” or “Agency”) and the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency (“PSA” or “Agency”) follow in response to a demand from a Federal, state, or local administrative body for the production and disclosure of material in connection with a proceeding to which the Agency is not a party.
(b) These regulations do not apply to congressional requests. Neither do these regulations apply in the case of an employee making an appearance solely in his or her private capacity in judicial or administrative proceedings that do not relate to the Agency (such as cases arising out of traffic accidents, domestic relations, etc.).
(c) This part is not intended and does not create and may not be relied upon to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States or specifically CSOSA or PSA.
§ 802.25
Definitions.
Demand
means a request, order, or subpoena for testimony or documents to use in a legal proceeding.
Employee
includes a person employed in any capacity by CSOSA or PSA, currently or in the past; any person appointed by, or subject to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control of the head of the Agency, or any Agency official, currently or in the past. A person who is subject to the Agency's jurisdiction or control includes any person who hired as a contractor by the agency, any person performing services for the agency under an agreement, and any consultant, contractor, or subcontractor of such person. A former employee is also considered an employee only when the matter about which the person would testify is one in which he or she was personally involved while at the Agency, or where the matter concerns official information that the employee acquired while working at the Agency, such as sensitive or confidential agency information.
Legal Proceeding
includes any pretrial, trial, and post-trial state of any existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative action, hearing, investigation, or similar proceeding before a court, commission, board, agency, or other tribunal, authority or entity, foreign or domestic. Legal proceeding also includes any deposition or other pretrial proceeding, including a formal or informal request for testimony made by an attorney or other person, or a request for documents gathered or drafted by an employee.
§ 802.26
Receipt of demand.
If, in connection with a proceeding to which the Agency is not a party, an employee receives a demand from a court or other authority for material contained in the Agency's files, any information relating to material contained in the Agency's files, or any information or material acquired by an employee as a part of the performance of that person's official duties or because of that person's official status, the employee must:
(a) Immediately notify the Office of the General Counsel and forward the demand to the General Counsel if the demand pertains to CSOSA; or
(b) Immediately notify the Deputy Director of PSA and forward the demand to the Deputy Director if the demand pertains to PSA.
§ 802.27
Compliance/noncompliance.
The General Counsel is responsible for determining if CSOSA should comply or not comply with the demand, and the Deputy Director of PSA is responsible for determining if PSA should comply with the demand.
(a) An employee may not produce any documents, or provide testimony regarding any information relating to, or based upon Agency documents, or disclose any information or produce materials acquired as part of the performance of that employee's official duties, or because of that employee's official status without prior authorization from the General Counsel or Deputy Director. The reasons for this policy are as follows:
(1) To conserve the time of the agency for conducting official business;
(2) To minimize the possibility of involving the agency in controversial issues that are not related to the agency's mission;
(3) To prevent the possibility that the public will misconstrue variances between personal opinions of agency employees and agency policies;
(4) To avoid spending the time and money of the United States for private purposes;
(5) To preserve the integrity of the administrative process; and
(6) To protect confidential, sensitive information and the deliberative process of the agency.
(b) An attorney from the Office of the General Counsel shall appear with any CSOSA employee upon whom the demand has been made (and with any PSA employee if so requested by the Deputy Director), and shall provide the court or other authority with a copy of the regulations contained in this part. The attorney shall also inform the court or authority that the demand has been or is being referred for prompt consideration by the General Counsel or Deputy Director. The court or other authority will be requested respectfully to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions from the General Counsel or Deputy Director.
(c) If the court or other authority declines to stay the effect of the demand pending receipt of instructions from the General Counsel or Deputy Director, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the instructions from the General Counsel or Deputy Director not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the employee upon whom the demand was made shall respectfully decline to produce the information under
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951). In this case, the Supreme Court held that a government employee could not be held in contempt for following an agency regulation requiring agency approval before producing government information in response to a court order.
(d) To achieve the purposes noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, the agency will consider factors such as the following in determining whether a demand should be complied with:
(1) The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 522a;
(2) Department of Health and Human Services statute and regulations concerning drug and alcohol treatment programs found at 42 U.S.C. 290dd and 42 CFR 2.1
et seq.;
(3) The Victims Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. 10606(b);
(4) D.C. statutes and regulations;
(5) Any other state or federal statute or regulation;
(6) Whether disclosure is appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose;
(7) Whether disclosure is appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege;
(8) Whether disclosure would reveal a confidential source or informant, unless the investigative agency and the source or informant have no objection; and
(9) Whether disclosure would reveal investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, and would interfere with enforcement proceedings or disclose investigative techniques and procedures the effectiveness of which would thereby be impaired.

# Subpart E—Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
§ 802.28
Exemption of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency System—limited access.
The Privacy Act permits specific systems of records to be exempt from some of its requirements.
(a)(1) The following systems of records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(1)-(3), (4)(G)-(I), (5) and (8), (f) and (g):
(i) Background Investigation (CSOSA-2).
(ii) Supervision Offender Case File (CSOSA-9).
(iii) Pre-Sentence Investigations (CSOSA-10).
(iv) Supervision
Management Automated Record Tracking (SMART) (CSOSA-11).
(v) Recidivism Tracking Database (CSOSA-12).
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Substance Abuse Treatment Database (CSOSA-15).
(viii) Screener (CSOSA-16).
(ix) Sex Offender Registry (CSOSA-18).
(2) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(i) From subsection (c)(3) because offenders will not be permitted to gain access or to contest contents of these record systems under the provisions of subsection (d) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. Revealing disclosure accountings can compromise legitimate law enforcement activities and CSOSA responsibilities.
(ii) From subsection (c)(4) because exemption from provisions of subsection (d) will make notification of formal disputes inapplicable.
(iii) From subsection (d), (e)(4)(G) through (e)(4)(I), (f) and (g) because exemption from this subsection is essential to protect internal processes by which CSOSA personnel are able to formulate decisions and policies with regard to offenders, to prevent disclosure of information to offenders that would jeopardize legitimate correctional interests of rehabilitation, and to permit receipt of relevant information from other federal agencies, state and local law enforcement agencies, and federal and state probation and judicial offices.
(iv) From subsection (e)(1) because primary collection of information directly from offenders about criminal history or criminal records is highly impractical and inappropriate.
(A) It is not possible in all instances to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the early stages of a criminal or other investigation.
(B) Relevance and necessity are questions of judgment and timing; what appears relevant and necessary when collected ultimately may be deemed unnecessary. It is only after the information is assessed that its relevancy and necessity in a specific investigative activity can be established.
(C) In interviewing individuals or obtaining other forms of evidence or information during an investigation, information could be obtained, the nature of which would leave in doubt its relevancy and necessity. Such information, however, could be relevant to another investigation or to an investigative activity under the jurisdiction of another agency.
(v) From subsection (e)(2) because the nature of criminal and other investigative activities is such that vital information about an individual can only be obtained from other persons who are familiar with such individual and his/her activities. In such investigations it is not feasible to rely upon information furnished by the individual concerning his/her own activities.
(vi) From subsection (e)(3) because disclosure would provide the subject with substantial information which could impede or compromise the investigation. The individual could seriously interfere with investigative activities and could take appropriate steps to evade the investigation or flee a specific area.
(vii) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could seriously interfere with a law enforcement activity by alerting the subject of a criminal or other investigation of existing investigative interest.
(viii) Those sections would otherwise require CSOSA to notify an individual of investigatory materials contained in a record pertaining to him/her, permit access to such record, permit requests for its correction (section 552a(d), (e)(4)(G), and (H)); make available to him/her any required accounting of disclosures made of the record (section 552a(c)(3)), publish the sources of records in the system (section 552a(4)(I)); and screen records to insure that there is maintained only such information about an individual as is relevant to accomplish a required purpose of the Agency (section 552(e)(1)). In addition, screening for relevancy to Agency purposes, a correction or attempted correction of such materials could require excessive amounts of time and effort on the part of all concerned.
(b)(1) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(1)-(e)(3), (4)(H), (5), (8) and (g):
(i) Office of Professional Responsibility Record (OPR) (CSOSA-17).
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(i) From subsection (c)(3) because release of disclosure accounting could alert the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of the investigation and the fact that they are subjects of the investigation, and reveal investigative interest by not only the OPR but also by the recipient agency. Since release of such information to the subjects of an investigation would provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, release could result in activities that would impede or compromise law enforcement such as: the destruction of documentary evidence; improper influencing of witnesses; endangerment of the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel; fabrication of testimony; and flight of the subject from the area. In addition, release of disclosure accounting could result in the release of properly classified information which could compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy.
(ii) From subsection (c)(4) because this system is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy Act.
(iii) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system of records could provide the subject of an investigation with information concerning law enforcement activities such as that relating to an actual or potential criminal, civil or regulatory violation; the existence of an investigation; the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to his activities; the identity of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel; and information that may enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. Such disclosure would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement where they prevent the successful completion of the investigation; endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel; and/or lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony. In addition, granting access to such information could disclose security-sensitive or confidential business information or information that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of third parties. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(iv) From subsection (e)(1) because the application of this provision could impair investigations and interfere with the law enforcement responsibilities of the OPR for the following reasons:
(A) It is not possible to detect relevance or necessity of specific information in the early stages of a civil, criminal or other law enforcement investigation, case, or matter, including investigations in which use is made of properly classified information. Relevance and necessity are questions of judgment and timing, and it is only after the information is evaluated that the relevance and necessity of such information can be established.
(B) During the course of any investigation, the OPR may obtain information concerning actual or potential violations of laws other than those within the scope of its jurisdiction. In the interest of effective law enforcement, the OPR should retain this information as it may aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity, and can provide valuable leads for Federal and other law enforcement agencies.
(C) In interviewing individuals or obtaining other forms of evidence during an investigation, information may be supplied to an investigator which relates to matters incidental to the primary purpose of the investigation but which may relate also to matters under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. Such information cannot readily be segregated.
(v) From subsection (e)(2) because, in some instances, the application of this provision would present a serious impediment to law enforcement for the following reasons:
(A) The subject of an investigation would be placed on notice as to the existence of an investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection or apprehension, to improperly influence witnesses, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony.
(B) In certain circumstances the subject of an investigation cannot be required to provide information to investigators, and information relating to a subject's illegal acts, violations of rules of conduct, or any other misconduct must be obtained from other sources.
(C) In any investigation it is necessary to obtain evidence from a variety of sources other than the subject of the investigation in order to verify the evidence necessary for successful litigation.
(vi) From subsection (e)(3) because the application of this provision would provide the subject of an investigation with substantial information which could impede or compromise the investigation. Providing such notice to a subject of an investigation could interfere with an undercover investigation by revealing its existence, and could endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and investigators by revealing their identities.
(vii) From subsection (e)(5) because the application of this provision would prevent the collection of any data not shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete at the moment it is collected. In the collection of information for law enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Material which may seem unrelated, irrelevant, or incomplete when collected may take on added meaning or significance as an investigation progresses. The restrictions of this provision could interfere with the preparation of a complete investigation report, and thereby impede effective law enforcement.
(viii) From subsection (e)(8) because the application of this provision could prematurely reveal an ongoing criminal investigation to the subject of the investigation, and could reveal investigation techniques, procedures, and/or evidence.
(ix) From subsection (g) to the extent that this system is exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to subsections (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) of the Privacy Act.
§ 802.29
Exemption of the Pretrial Services Agency System.
The Privacy Act permits specific systems of records to be exempt from some of its requirements.
(a)(1) The following systems of records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(1)-(3), (4)(G)-(I), (5) and (8), (f) and (g):
(i) Automated Bail Agency Database (ABADABA) (CSOSA/PSA-1).
(ii) Drug Test Management System (DTMS) (CSOSA/PSA-2).
(iii) Interview and Treatment Files (CSOSA/PSA-3).
(iv) Pretrial Realtime Information Systems Manager (PRISM) (CSOSA/PSA-6).
(2) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(i) From subsection (c)(3) because defendants/offenders will not be permitted to gain access or to contest contents of these record systems under the provisions of subsection (d) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. Revealing disclosure accountings can compromise legitimate law enforcement activities and CSOSA/PSA responsibilities.
(ii) From subsection (c)(4) because exemption from provisions of subsection (d) will make notification of formal disputes inapplicable.
(iii) From subsection (d), (e)(4)(G) through (e)(4)(I), (f) and (g) because exemption from this subsection is essential to protect internal processes by which CSOSA/PSA personnel are able to formulate decisions and policies with regard to defendants/offenders, to prevent disclosure of information to defendants/offenders that would jeopardize legitimate correctional interests of rehabilitation, and to permit receipt of relevant information from other federal agencies, state and local law enforcement agencies, and federal and state probation and judicial offices.
(iv) From subsection (e)(1) because primary collection of information directly from defendants/offenders about
criminal history or criminal records is highly impractical and inappropriate.
(A) It is not possible in all instances to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the early stages of a criminal or other investigation.
(B) Relevancy and necessity are questions of judgment and timing; what appears relevant and necessary when collected ultimately may be deemed unnecessary. It is only after the information is assessed that its relevancy and necessity in a specific investigative activity can be established.
(C) In interviewing individuals or obtaining other forms of evidence or information during an investigation, information could be obtained, the nature of which would leave in doubt its relevancy and necessity. Such information, however, could be relevant to another investigation or to an investigative activity under the jurisdiction of another agency.
(v) From subsection (e)(2) because the nature of criminal and other investigative activities is such that vital information about an individual can only be obtained from other persons who are familiar with such individual and his/her activities. In such investigations it is not feasible to rely upon information furnished by the individual concerning his/her own activities.
(vi) From subsection (e)(3) because disclosure would provide the subject with substantial information which could impede or compromise the investigation. The individual could seriously interfere with investigative activities and could take appropriate steps to evade the investigation or flee a specific area.
(vii) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could seriously interfere with a law enforcement activity by alerting the subject of a criminal or other investigation of existing investigative interest.
(viii) Those sections would otherwise require CSOSA to notify an individual of investigatory materials contained in a record pertaining to him/her, permit access to such record, permit requests for its correction (section 552a(d), (e)(4)(G), and (H)); make available to him/her any required accounting of disclosures made of the record (section 552a(c)(3)), publish the sources of records in the system (section 552a(4)(I)); and screen records to insure that there is maintained only such information about an individual as is relevant to accomplish a required purpose of the Agency (section 552(e)(1)). In addition, screening for relevancy to Agency purposes, a correction or attempted correction of such materials could require excessive amounts of time and effort on the part of all concerned.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 803

# PART 803—AGENCY SEAL
Sec.
803.1
Description.
803.2
Authority to affix seal.
803.3
Use of the seal.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, Pub L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712, D.C. Code 24-133.

# Source:
69 FR 21059, Apr. 20, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 803.1
Description.
(a) The Agency seal of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (CSOSA or Agency) is described as follows: General George Washington's coat of arms in red and white bounded by an outline of the District of Columbia and superimposed upon a blue field together with the dome of the United States Capitol building in gold; encircled by a banner with the words “Community, Accountability, and Justice” and gold laurel branches, with gold edges bearing the inscription “COURT SERVICES AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY” above three stars at either side of the words “DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA” in smaller letters in the base; letters and stars in gold. A reproduction of the Agency seal in black and white appears as follows.
ER20AP04.000
(b) The Agency seal of the Pretrial Services Agency for the District of Columbia (PSA or Agency) is described as follows: Two crossed flags, the United States flag on the left and the District of Columbia flag on the right superimposed upon the United States Capitol dome and two laurel branches both in gold which appear on a blue field bearing a white banner edged and lettered in gold with the inscription “COMMUNITY, ACCOUNTABILITY, JUSTICE”; bearing the inscription “PRETRIAL SERVICES AGENCY” at the top, and “DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA” at the bottom surrounded by three gold stars on either side; letters and stars in gold. A reproduction of the Agency seal in black and white appears below.
ER26SE12.005
[69 FR 21059, Apr. 20, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 59082, Sept. 26, 2012]
§ 803.2
Authority to affix seal.
The Director of CSOSA or PSA (as appropriate) and each Director's designees are authorized to affix their respective Agency seal (including replicas and reproductions) to appropriate documents, certifications, and other materials for all purposes authorized by this part.
[77 FR 59082, Sept. 26, 2012]
§ 803.3
Use of the seal.
(a) Each Agency's seal is used by that Agency's staff for official Agency business as approved by the appropriate Director or designee in accordance with all subparts of 28 CFR 803.3.
(b) Use of the Agency seal by any person or organization outside of the Agency may be made only with the appropriate prior written approval.
(1) Any request for such use must be made in writing to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004, and must specify, in detail, the exact use to be made. Any permission granted by the appropriate Director or designee applies only to the specific use for which it was granted and is not to be construed as permission for any other use.
(2) The decision whether to grant such a request is made on a case-by-case basis, with consideration of all relevant factors, which may include: the benefit or cost to the government of granting the request; the unintended appearance of endorsement or authentication by the Agency; the potential for misuse; the effect upon Agency security; the reputability of the use; the
extent of the control by the Agency over the ultimate use; and the extent of control by the Agency over distribution of any products or publications bearing the Agency seal.
(c) Falsely making, forging, counterfeiting, mutilating, or altering the Agency seal or reproduction, or knowingly using or possessing with fraudulent intent an altered Agency seal or reproduction is punishable under 28 U.S.C. 506.
(d) Any person using the Agency seal or reproduction in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this part is subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1017, which states penalties for the wrongful use of an Agency seal, and other provisions of law as applicable.
[69 FR 21059, Apr. 20, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 59082, Sept. 26, 2012]
Pt. 804

# PART 804—ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS
Sec.
804.1
Purpose.
804.2
Delegation of authority.
804.3
Restrictions.
804.4
Submission and approval.
804.5
Audit and public inspection.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Public Law 107-96, 115 Stat. 923, 931.

# Source:
69 FR 21060, Apr. 20, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 804.1
Purpose.
By statute, the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency (CSOSA or Agency) is authorized to accept and use gifts in the form of in-kind contributions of space and hospitality to support offender and defendant programs, and of equipment and vocational training services to educate and train offenders and defendants. The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Inform the public of the procedures to follow when offering a gift;
(b) Establish criteria for accepting and using gifts;
(c) Establish procedures for audit and public inspection of records pertaining to the acceptance and use of gifts; and
(d) Delegate gift acceptance authority to the Director of the Pretrial Services Agency (PSA or Agency).
§ 804.2
Delegation of authority.
The Director of CSOSA hereby delegates to the Director of PSA the authority to accept and use gifts in the form of in-kind contributions of space and hospitality to support defendant programs, and of equipment and vocational training services to educate and train defendants in accordance with the requirements of this part. This delegation of authority may not be further delegated.
§ 804.3
Restrictions.
(a) The Agency is not authorized to accept gifts of money, stock, bonds, personal or real property, or devises or bequests of such items, except as provided in this part.
(b) Agency employees may not solicit any type of gift to the Agency.
§ 804.4
Submission and approval.
(a)
Offender programs and equipment and vocational training services.
(1) Any person or organization wishing to donate as a gift in-kind contributions of space or hospitality to support offender programs, or equipment or vocational training services to educate and train offenders may submit the following information in writing to the Agency's Ethics Officer in the Office of the General Counsel:
(i) The name of the person or organization offering the gift;
(ii) A description of the gift;
(iii) The estimated value of the gift;
(iv) Any restrictions on the gift placed by the donor; and
(v) A signed statement that the gift is unsolicited.
(2) The Director, after consultation with the Agency's Ethics Officer, shall determine whether to accept or reject the gift.
(3) CSOSA staff shall advise the person offering the gift of the Agency's determination, including, if applicable, the reason for rejection. Reasons for rejecting a gift include findings that:
(i) There is a conflict of interest in accepting the gift;
(ii) Acceptance of the gift is otherwise unlawful or would create the appearance of impropriety;
(iii) Acceptance of the gift would obligate the Agency to an unbudgeted expenditure of funds; or
(iv) Operation of the program, equipment, or vocational training services would not be practicable.
(b)
Defendant programs and equipment and vocational training services.
(1) Any person or organization wishing to donate as a gift in-kind contributions of space or hospitality to support defendant programs, or equipment or vocational training services to educate and train defendants may submit the following information in writing to the Agency's Ethics Officer in the Office of the General Counsel:
(i) The name of the person or organization offering the gift;
(ii) A description of the gift;
(iii) The estimated value of the gift;
(iv) Any restrictions on the gift placed by the donor; and
(v) A signed statement that the gift is unsolicited.
(2) The General Counsel shall forward the request to PSA's Director with a recommendation whether to accept or reject the gift.
(3) PSA staff shall advise the person offering the gift of the Agency's determination, including the reason for rejection. Reasons for rejecting a gift include findings that:
(i) There is a conflict of interest in accepting the gift;
(ii) Acceptance of the gift is otherwise unlawful or would create the appearance of impropriety;
(iii) Acceptance of the gift would obligate the Agency to an unbudgeted expenditure of funds; or
(iv) Operation of the program, equipment, or vocational training services would not be practicable.
§ 804.5
Audit and public inspection.
(a) Records regarding the acceptance and use of gifts shall be made available for Federal Government audit.
(b) Public inspection of records regarding the acceptance and use of gifts shall be afforded through Freedom of Information Act requests (
see
28 CFR part 802).
Pt. 810

# PART 810—COMMUNITY SUPERVISION: ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
Sec.
810.1
Supervision contact requirements.
810.2
Accountability contract.
810.3
Consequences of violating the conditions of supervision.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 712 (D.C. Code 24-1233(b)(2)(B)).

# Source:
66 FR 48337, Sept. 20, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 810.1
Supervision contact requirements.
If you are an offender under supervision by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA”), CSOSA will establish a supervision level for you and your minimum contact requirement (that is, the minimum frequency of face-to-face interactions between you and a Community Supervision Officer (“CSO”)).
§ 810.2
Accountability contract.
(a) Your CSO will instruct you to acknowledge your responsibilities and obligations of being under supervision (whether through probation, parole, or supervised release as granted by the releasing authority) by agreeing to an accountability contract with CSOSA.
(b) The CSO is responsible for monitoring your compliance with the conditions of supervision. The accountability contract identifies the following specific activities constituting substance abuse or non-criminal violations of your conditions of supervision.
(1)
Substance abuse violations.
(i) Positive drug test.
(ii) Failure to report for drug testing.
(iii) Failure to appear for treatment sessions.
(iv) Failure to complete inpatient/outpatient treatment programming.
(2)
Non-criminal violations.
(i) Failure to report to the CSO.
(ii) Leaving the judicial district without the permission of the court or the CSO.
(iii) Failure to work regularly or attend training and/or school.
(iv) Failure to notify the CSO of change of address and/or employment.
(v) Frequenting places where controlled substances are illegally sold, used, distributed, or administered.
(vi) Associating with persons engaged in criminal activity.
(vii) Associating with a person convicted of a felony without the permission of the CSO.
(viii) Failure to notify the CSO within 48 hours of being arrested or questioned by a law enforcement officer.
(ix) Entering into an agreement to act as an informer or special agent of a law enforcement agency without the permission of the Court or the United States Parole Commission (“USPC”).
(x) Failure to adhere to any general or special condition of release.
(c) The accountability contract will identify a schedule of administrative sanctions (
see
§ 810.3(b)) which may be imposed for your first violation and for subsequent violations.
(d) The accountability contract will provide for a reduction in your supervision level and/or the removal of previously imposed sanctions if:
(1) You maintain compliance for at least ninety days,
(2) The Supervisory Community Supervision Officer concurs with this assessment, and
(3) There are no additional reasons unrelated to the imposed sanction requiring the higher supervision level.
§ 810.3
Consequences of violating the conditions of supervision.
(a) If your CSO has reason to believe that you are failing to abide by the general or specific conditions of release or you are engaging in criminal activity, you will be in violation of the conditions of your supervision. Your CSO may then impose administrative sanctions (see paragraph (b) of this section) and/or request a hearing by the releasing authority. This hearing may result in the revocation of your release or changes to the conditions of your release.
(b) Administrative sanctions available to the CSO include:
(1) Daily check-in with supervision for a specified period of time;
(2) Increased group activities for a specified period of time;
(3) Increased drug testing;
(4) Increased supervision contact requirements;
(5) Referral for substance abuse addiction or other specialized assessments;
(6) Electronic monitoring for a specified period of time;
(7) Community service for a specified number of hours;
(8) Placement in a residential sanctions facility or residential treatment facility for a specified period of time.
(9) Travel restrictions.
(c) You remain subject to further action by the releasing authority. For example, the USPC may override the imposition of any of the sanctions in paragraph (b) of this section and issue a warrant or summons if you are a parolee and it finds that you are a risk to the public safety or that you are not complying in good faith with the sanctions (
see
28 CFR 2.85(a)(15)).
Pt. 811

# PART 811—SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION
Sec.
811.1
Purpose and scope; relation to District of Columbia regulations.
811.2
Applicability.
811.3
Notice of obligation to register.
811.4
Determination of the obligation to register and the length of registration.
811.5
Commencement of the obligation to register.
811.6
Duration of the obligation to register.
811.7
Initial registration.
811.8
Review of determination to register.
811.9
Periodic verification of registration information.
811.10
Changes in registration information.
811.11
Compliance.
811.12
Penalties.
811.13
Notices and appearances.
811.14
Definitions.
Appendix A to Part 811—Listing of Sex Offender Registration Offenses by Class

# Authority:
DC ST sec. 24-133 and the District of Columbia Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999, D.C. Law 13-137.

# Source:
67 FR 54095, Aug. 21, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 811.1
Purpose and scope; relation to District of Columbia regulations.
(a) In accordance with its sex offender registration functions authorized by section 166(a) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2000 (Pub. L. 106-113, sec. 166(a), 113 Stat. 1530; D.C. Official Code secs. 24-133(c)(5)) and as further authorized by the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (“the Act,” D.C. Law 13-137, D.C. Official Code,
secs. 22-4001
et seq.
), the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA”) operates and maintains the sex offender registry for the District of Columbia. The regulations in this part set forth procedures and requirements relating to registration, verification, and changes in information for sex offenders who live, reside, work, or attend school in the District of Columbia.
(b) Chapter 4 of Title 6A, District of Columbia Municipal Regulations (DCMR)(47 D.C. Reg. 10042, December 22, 2000), contains regulations issued by the government of the District of Columbia for the sex offender registration system in the District of Columbia (“District of Columbia regulations”). Chapter 4 of Title 6A, DCMR (47 D.C. Reg. 10042, December 22, 2000) is incorporated by reference in this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Chapter 4 of Title 6A, DCMR, is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies of Chapter 4 of Title 6A, DCMR, may be obtained from the District of Columbia's Office of Documents and Administrative Issuances, 441 4th Street, NW., Room 520S, Washington, DC 20001. CSOSA hereby adopts all powers and authorities that the District of Columbia regulations authorize CSOSA to exercise, and hereby adopts all procedures and requirements that the District of Columbia regulations state that CSOSA shall adopt or carry out, including but not limited to all such powers, authorities, procedures and requirements relating to registration, verification, and changes in information.
[67 FR 54095, Aug. 21, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 811.2
Applicability.
(a) Sex offender registration requirements apply to all persons who live, reside, work, or attend school in the District of Columbia, and who:
(1) committed a registration offense on or after July 11, 2000;
(2) committed a registration offense at any time and were in custody or under supervision on or after July 11, 2000;
(3) were required to register under the law of the District of Columbia as was in effect on July 10, 2000; or
(4) committed a registration offense at any time in another jurisdiction and, within the registration period (see §§ 811.5 and 811.6), entered the District of Columbia to live, reside, work or attend school.
(b) “Committed a registration offense” means that a person was found guilty or found not guilty by reason of insanity of a registration offense or was determined to be a sexual psychopath. Registration offenses are defined in section 2(8) of the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (D.C. Official Code § 22-4001(8)), subject to the exceptions in section 17(b) of that Act (D.C. Official Code section 22-4016), and are listed descriptively in the Appendix to Part 811 (which also provides information on registration and notification classes). Any future revision to the statutory provisions designating registration offenses will be effective notwithstanding the timing of any conforming revision of these regulations, including the Appendix.
§ 811.3
Notice of obligation to register.
(a) Sex offenders may be notified of their obligation to register under various provisions of law. See sections 4, 6 and 8 of the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (D.C. Official Code sections 22-4003, 4005, 4007) (relating to notice by the District of Columbia Superior Court, Department of Corrections, or CSOSA); 18 U.S.C. 4042(c) (relating to notice by Federal Bureau of Prisons and probation offices); 18 U.S.C. 3563(a)(8), 3583(d), 4209(a) (inclusion of registration requirements as conditions of release under federal law); 42 U.S.C. 14071(b)(1) (notice under federal law standards for state sex offender registration programs).
(b) In some cases, sex offenders may not be notified of their obligation to register. Lack of notice does not excuse a failure to register because sex offenders have an independent obligation to register. Persons who have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of
insanity of a sex offense or who have been determined to be a sexual psychopath should report to CSOSA in order to ascertain whether they are required to register.
§ 811.4
Determination of the obligation to register and the length of registration.
(a) If the Superior Court finds that a person committed a registration offense, the Superior Court enters an order certifying that the person is a sex offender and that the person is subject to registration for a prescribed period of time (see § 811.6).
(b) If a court order has not been entered certifying that a person is a sex offender and that the person is subject to registration for a prescribed period of time, CSOSA makes those determinations. CSOSA also determines the notification classification if the Court has not done so. Facts on which CSOSA's determination may be based include:
(1) The offense or offenses of conviction (or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity) or a determination that the person is a sexual psychopath;
(2) For certain offenses, facts that may not be apparent on the face of the conviction (or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity), such as:
(i) the age of the victim;
(ii) whether force was involved; or
(iii) whether the offense involved an undercover law enforcement officer who was believed to be an adult;
(3) Prior criminal history;
(4) For an offense committed in or prosecuted under the law of another jurisdiction, whether the offense involved conduct that was the same as or substantially similar to a District of Columbia registration offense; and
(5) The amount of time that has elapsed as computed under § 811.6.
§ 811.5
Commencement of the obligation to register.
(a) A sex offender's obligation to register starts when the sex offender is found guilty or not guilty by reason of insanity of a registration offense or is determined to be a sexual psychopath. However, CSOSA may suspend registration requirements during any period of time in which a sex offender is detained, incarcerated, confined, civilly committed, or hospitalized in a secure facility.
(b) A sex offender must register if the sex offender is placed on probation, parole, supervised release, or convalescent leave, is conditionally or unconditionally released from a secure facility, is granted unaccompanied grounds privileges or other unaccompanied leave, absconds or escapes, is otherwise not detained, incarcerated, confined, civilly committed, or hospitalized in a secure facility, or enters the District of Columbia from another jurisdiction to live, reside, work, or attend school. Registration shall be effectuated as provided in § 811.7 and may be carried out prior to the occurrence of a circumstance described in this paragraph, including the release of or granting of leave to a sex offender.
§ 811.6
Duration of the obligation to register.
(a)
Lifetime registration.
The registration period for a sex offender who is required to register for life shall end upon the sex offender's death.
(b)
Term of years registration.
(1) The registration period for any other sex offender shall end upon the expiration of the sex offender's probation, parole, supervised release, conditional release, or convalescent leave, or ten years after the sex offender is placed on probation, parole, supervised release, conditional release, or convalescent leave, or is unconditionally released from a correctional facility, prison, hospital or other place of confinement, whichever is latest.
(2) In computing ten years, CSOSA will not count:
(i) Any time in which the sex offender has failed to register or otherwise failed to comply with requirements of the Act or any procedures, requirements, rules, or regulations promulgated under the Act, including these regulations and the District of Columbia regulations;
(ii) Any time in which a sex offender is detained, incarcerated, confined, civilly committed, or hospitalized in a mental health facility; and
(iii) Any time in which a sex offender was registered prior to a revocation of probation, parole, supervised release,
conditional release, or convalescent leave.
(3) In computing ten years, CSOSA will count any time in which a sex offender was registered in another jurisdiction unless that time is not counted because of a circumstance set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Reversal, vacation, or pardon.
A person's obligation to register terminates if the person's conviction, finding of not guilty by reason of insanity, or finding that the person is a sexual psychopath is reversed or vacated, or if the person has been pardoned for the offense on the ground of innocence, and the person has committed no other offenses for which registration is required.
(d)
Termination of obligation to register in the District of Columbia under other circumstances.
A sex offender's obligation to register in the District of Columbia terminates if the sex offender no longer lives, resides, works or attends school in the District of Columbia. However, the obligation to register in the District of Columbia resumes if the sex offender re-enters the District of Columbia within the registration period to live, reside, work or attend school.
§ 811.7
Initial registration.
(a)
Duties of sex offender.
(1) A sex offender must notify CSOSA within 3 days of the occurrence of any circumstance described in § 811.5(b), including but not limited to being sentenced to probation, being released (including any escape or abscondance) from incarceration or confinement, or entering the District of Columbia to live, reside, work, or attend school.
(2) A sex offender must meet with a responsible officer or official, as directed by CSOSA, for the purpose of registration, and must cooperate in such a meeting, including:
(i) Providing any information required for registration and cooperating in photographing and fingerprinting;
(ii) Reviewing information obtained by CSOSA pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section as CSOSA directs and either attesting to its accuracy or setting forth in writing, under penalties of perjury, the exact portion or portions that are not accurate; and
(iii) Acknowledging receipt of information concerning the sex offender's duties under the Act, including reading (or, if the sex offender cannot read, listening to a reading of) and signing a form or forms stating that these duties have been explained to the sex offender.
(3) In case of disagreement with CSOSA's determination that the person must register or with CSOSA's determination of the person's classification for purposes of registration or notification, the person must follow the review procedures set forth in § 811.8.
(b)
Duties of CSOSA.
(1) CSOSA shall obtain information relating to the sex offender for the purpose of registration including:
(i) Name(s) and alias(es);
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Physical description such as sex, race, height, weight, eye color, hair color, tattoos, scars, or other marks or characteristics;
(iv) Social security, PDID, DCDC and FBI numbers;
(v) Driver's license number and make, model, color, and license plate number of any motor vehicle(s) the sex offender owns;
(vi) A photograph and set of fingerprints;
(vii) Current and/or anticipated home, school, work address(es) and telephone number(s); and
(viii) Other information that may assist CSOSA or the Metropolitan Police Department in locating the sex offender.
(2) CSOSA shall also obtain a detailed description of the offense(s) on the basis of which a sex offender is required to register, the presentence report(s), the victim impact statement(s), the date(s) of conviction and any sentence(s) imposed, the sex offender's criminal record and a detailed description of any relevant offense or offenses, pertinent statutes and case law in other jurisdictions, and any other information it deems useful in order to determine a sex offender's obligation to register, term of registration, and notification classification, to verify the accuracy of the information provided, to assist other jurisdictions' sex offender registration agencies and
authorities, or to assist the Metropolitan Police Department in its law enforcement functions.
(3) CSOSA shall inform a sex offender of the sex offender's duty to:
(i) Comply with the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section for initial registration;
(ii) Periodically verify the address(es) at which the sex offender lives, resides, works, and/or attends school, and other information, as provided in § 811.9;
(iii) Report any change of address and any other changes in registration information (including changes in appearance), as provided in § 811.10;
(iv) Notify CSOSA if the sex offender is moving to another jurisdiction or works or attends school in another jurisdiction and to register in any such jurisdiction; and
(v) Comply with the requirements of the Act and any procedures, requirements, rules, or regulations promulgated under the Act, including these regulations and the District of Columbia regulations.
(4) CSOSA shall inform the sex offender of the penalties for failure to comply with the sex offender's duties.
(5) If the Superior Court has not entered an order certifying that a person is a sex offender, CSOSA shall inform the person that, if the person disagrees with CSOSA's determination that the person must register or CSOSA's determination of the person's classification for purposes of registration or notification, then the person must follow the review procedures set forth in § 811.8. CSOSA shall provide the person with a form to notify CSOSA of an intent to seek such review.
§ 811.8
Review of determination to register.
(a) If a person, other than a person who has been certified as a sex offender by the Court, disagrees with CSOSA's determination that the person is subject to registration or with CSOSA's determination of the person's classification for purposes of registration or notification, the person may seek judicial review of the determination, subject to the limitations of section 5(a)(1) of the Act (D.C. Official Code § 22-4004(a)(1)), by:
(1) Immediately providing CSOSA with a notice of intent to seek review upon being informed of the determination; and
(2) Within 30 calendar days of the date on which the person is informed of CSOSA's determination, filing a motion in the Superior Court setting forth the disputed facts and attaching any documents or affidavits upon which the person intends to rely.
(b) A person who fails to comply with paragraph (a) of this section may seek review of CSOSA's determination only in conformity with the limitations of section 5(a)(1) of the Act (D.C. Official Code Section 4004(a)(1)) and for good cause shown and to prevent manifest injustice by filing a motion in the Court within three years of the date on which the person is informed of CSOSA's determination.
§ 811.9
Periodic verification of registration information.
(a) Sex offenders who are required to register for life must verify registration information quarterly pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) All other sex offenders must verify registration information annually pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) Quarterly or annually, as appropriate, CSOSA will send a certified letter with return receipt requested to the home of the sex offender.
(d) The sex offender must correct any information on the form which is inaccurate or out of date and must sign, thumb-print, and return the form to CSOSA no later than 14 calendar days after the date on which CSOSA placed it in the mail. The sex offender has the option of returning the form by mail or in person unless:
(1) The sex offender is also on probation, parole, or supervised release or otherwise must report to CSOSA, and CSOSA directs the sex offender to verify the registration information in person;
(2) CSOSA directs the sex offender to appear in person because the sex offender has previously failed to submit a timely verification or submitted an incomplete or inaccurate verification; or
(3) CSOSA directs the sex offender to appear in person for the purpose of taking a new photograph documenting a significant change in physical appearance or updating a photograph that is five or more years old.
(e) CSOSA, either on its own accord or with its law enforcement partners, will conduct home verifications of registered sex offenders pursuant to the following schedule:
(1) Semi-annually, at least every six months, for all registered Class A sex offenders without supervision obligation.
(2) Annually, for all registered Class B sex offenders without a supervision obligation.
(3) As directed by CSOSA and consistent with Agency policy for all Class A and B sex offenders with supervision obligation.
[67 FR 54095, Aug. 21, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 23836, Apr. 23, 2013]
§ 811.10
Changes in registration information.
(a)(1) A sex offender must notify CSOSA if the sex offender:
(i) Ceases to live or reside at the registered address or moves to a different address;
(ii) leaves a job or obtains a new job, or leaves a school or enrolls in a new school; or
(iii) ceases to own or becomes an owner of any motor vehicle.
(2) A sex offender must notify CSOSA if there is a significant change in the sex offender's appearance and report as directed for the purpose of having a new photograph taken. Any question regarding whether a change in physical appearance is significant is to be referred to CSOSA.
(3) A sex offender must notify CSOSA if the sex offender is moving to another jurisdiction or if the sex offender works or attends school in another jurisdiction and must register in any such jurisdiction.
(b) Notice of the changes described in paragraph (a) of this section must be in writing and must be provided prior to the change if feasible and in any event within three days of the change. Notices of change in address or place of work or school attendance must include new address, location, and phone number information. Notice relating to ownership of a motor vehicle must include the make, model, color, and license plate number of the vehicle.
§ 811.11
Compliance.
(a) A sex offender may be excused from strict compliance with the time limits set forth in these regulations if the sex offender notifies CSOSA in advance of circumstances that will interfere with compliance and makes alternative arrangements to satisfy the requirements or, in the case of an emergency, notifies CSOSA as soon as the sex offender is able to do so.
(b) CSOSA may direct that a sex offender meet with a responsible officer or official for the purpose of securing compliance or discussing non-compliance with any requirements of the Act or any procedures, requirements, rules, or regulations promulgated under the Act, including these regulations and the District of Columbia regulations.
§ 811.12
Penalties.
A violation of the requirements of the Act or any procedures, requirements, rules, or regulations promulgated under the Act, including these regulations and the District of Columbia regulations, may result in criminal prosecution under section 16 of the Act (D.C. Official Code Section 22-4015), revocation of probation, parole, supervised release, or conditional release, and extension of the registration period under § 811.6(b)(2).
§ 811.13
Notices and appearances.
Unless otherwise directed by the Court or CSOSA,
(a) Notices or reports that are required to be submitted in writing should be sent to: Sex Offender Registration Unit, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, Room 2002, 300 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001.
(b) A person who is required to report in person should go to: Sex Offender Supervision Office, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, Room 2002, 300 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001.
§ 811.14
Definitions.
(a) The terms “attends school,” “Court,” “in custody or under supervision,” “sex offender,” and “works” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 2 of the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (D.C. Official Code Section 22-4001).
(b) The term “the Act” means the Sex Offender Registration Act of 1999 (D.C. Official Code Section 22-4001
et seq.
).
(c) The term “days” means business days unless otherwise specified.
(d) In relation to a motor vehicle, the term “owns” includes both exclusive ownership and co-ownership, and the term “owner” includes both exclusive owners and co-owners.
Pt. 811, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 811—Listing of Sex Offender Registration Offenses by Class

# Class A Offenders—All Lifetime Registrants

# (D.C. Official Code Secs. 22-4001(6), 4002(b), 4011(b)(2)(A))
1. Class A includes offenders who have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of:
(a) First degree sexual abuse;
(b) Second degree sexual abuse;
(c) Rape;
(d) Forcible sodomy;
(e) First degree child sexual abuse committed against a child under 12;
(f) Carnal knowledge (statutory rape) committed against a child under 12;
(g) Sodomy committed against a child under 12;
(h) Murder committed before, during, or after engaging in or attempting to engage in a sexual act or contact or rape;
(i) Manslaughter committed before, during, or after engaging in or attempting to engage in a sexual act or contact or rape;
(j) Attempting to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
(k) Conspiring to commit any of the foregoing offenses; or
(l) Assault with intent to commit any of the foregoing offenses.
2. Class A also includes offenders who:
(a) In two or more trials or plea proceedings, have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of a felony registration offense or any registration offense against a minor. (Recidivism).
(b) In a single trial or plea proceeding, have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of registration offenses against two or more victims where each offense is a felony or committed against a minor (Multiple victims).
(c) Have been determined to be sexual psychopaths.
3. Class A also includes offenders who have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity under the law of another jurisdiction of offenses that involved conduct that is the same as or substantially similar to that above.

# Class B Offenders—“Ten Year” Registrants

# (Other Offenses Against Minors, Wards, Patients, or Clients)

# (D.C. Official Code Secs. 22-4001(8), 4002(a), 4011(b)(2)(B))
1. Class B includes offenders who are not included in Class A and have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of any of the following crimes against a minor (that is, a person under the age of 18):
(a) Third degree sexual abuse;
(b) Fourth degree sexual abuse;
(c) Misdemeanor sexual abuse;
(d) First degree child sexual abuse;
(e) Second degree child sexual abuse;
(f) Carnal knowledge (statutory rape);
(g) Sodomy committed against a minor;
(h) Indecent acts on a child;
(i) Enticing a child;
(j) Lewd, indecent or obscene acts;
(k) Sexual performance using a minor;
(l) Incest;
(m) Obscenity;
(n) Prostitution/Pandering;
(o) Assault (unwanted sexual touching);
(p) Threatening to commit a sexual offense;
(q) First or second degree burglary with intent to commit sex offense;
(r) Kidnapping (does not require a sexual purpose);
(s) Assault with intent to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
(t) Attempting to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
(u) Conspiring to commit any of the foregoing offenses; or
(v) Any offense against a minor for which the offender agreed in a plea agreement to be subject to sex offender registration requirements.
2. Class B also includes offenders who are not included in Class A and have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity of any of the following crimes regardless of the age of the victim:
(a) First degree sexual abuse of a ward or resident of a hospital, treatment facility or other institution.
(b) Second degree sexual abuse of a ward or resident of a hospital, treatment facility or other institution.
(c) First degree sexual abuse of a patient or client.
(d) Second degree sexual abuse of a patient or client.
3. Class B also includes offenders who are not included in Class A and have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity under the law of another jurisdiction of offenses that involved conduct that is the same as or substantially similar to that above.

# Class C Offenders—“Ten Year” Registrants

# (Other Offenses Against Adult Victims)

# (D.C. Official Code Secs. 22-4001(8), 4002(a), 4011(b)(2)(C))
1. Class C includes offenders who are not included in Class A or Class B and have committed any of the following crimes against an adult (that is, a person 18 years of age or older):
(a) Third degree sexual abuse;
(b) Fourth degree sexual abuse;
(c) First or second degree burglary with intent to commit sex offense;
(d) Kidnapping with intent to commit sex offense;
(e) Threatening to commit a sexual offense (felony);
(f) Assault with intent to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
(g) Attempting to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
(h) Conspiring to commit any of the foregoing offenses, or;
(i) Any offense for which the offender agreed in a plea agreement to be subject to sex offender registration requirements.
2. Class C also includes offenders who are not included in Class A or Class B and have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity under the law of another jurisdiction of offenses that involved conduct that is the same as or substantially similar to that above.

# Exceptions (D.C. Official Code Sec. 22-4016(
b

# ))
The following do not constitute registration offenses:
1. Any sexual offense between consenting adults or an attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit such an offense, except for offenses to which consent is not a defense as provided in Section 218 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (D.C. Official Code § 22-3017).
2. Any misdemeanor offense that involved a person's sexual touching or attempted or solicited sexual touching of an undercover law enforcement officer where the person believed that the officer was an adult.
3. Any misdemeanor offense committed against an adult, except where the offender agrees in a plea agreement to be subject to sex offender registration requirements.
Pt. 812

# PART 812—COLLECTION AND USE OF DNA INFORMATION
Sec.
812.1
Purpose.
812.2
Individuals subject to DNA collection.
812.3
Coordination with the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
812.4
Collection procedures.
Appendix A to Part 812—Qualifying District of Columbia Code Offenses

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Pub. L. 106-546 (114 Stat. 2726).

# Source:
67 FR 54100, Aug. 21, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 812.1
Purpose.
The Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (“CSOSA”) cooperates with other federal agencies to ensure that DNA samples from offenders are appropriately furnished to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) for DNA analysis. The results of the DNA analyses are to be included in the Combined DNA Index System (“CODIS”).
§ 812.2
Individuals subject to DNA collection.
CSOSA is responsible for collecting a DNA sample from each individual under its supervision who is, or has been, convicted of a qualifying District of Columbia Code offense. Qualifying District of Columbia Code offenses were designated by the Council of the District of Columbia in the “DNA Sample Collection Act of 2001.” CSOSA provides a listing of these offenses in the Appendix to this part. The list is presented for informational purposes only. Any future revision to the District of Columbia Code sections designating the qualifying offenses will be effective notwithstanding the timing of a conforming revision of the Appendix by CSOSA. CSOSA may choose not to collect a sample from an individual if it determines that CODIS already contains a DNA analysis for the individual.
§ 812.3
Coordination with the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
(a) CSOSA will coordinate with the Federal Bureau of Prisons in order to obtain documentation regarding the collection of a DNA sample when the Federal Bureau of Prisons releases an inmate to CSOSA's supervision or as requested by CSOSA.
(b) CSOSA shall provide the Federal Bureau of Prisons with documentation regarding the collection of a DNA sample from a District of Columbia Code offender when CSOSA returns the District of Columbia Code offender to the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or as requested by the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
§ 812.4
Collection procedures.
(a) DNA samples will be collected, handled, preserved, and submitted to the FBI in accordance with FBI guidelines.
(b) CSOSA has the authority to use such means as are reasonably necessary to collect a sample from an individual who refuses to cooperate in the collection of the sample. Unless CSOSA determines that there are mitigating circumstances, CSOSA will consider that an individual is refusing to cooperate if:
(1) The individual is being ordered or transferred to CSOSA's supervision, but fails to report to CSOSA for collection of the sample within 15 business days of being sentenced to probation or being discharged from a correctional institution; or
(2) The individual is already under CSOSA supervision and has been notified by his or her Community Supervision Officer of the time to report for collection of the sample, but fails to report for collection of the sample; or
(3) The individual has reported to CSOSA for collection of the sample, but fails to provide the sample after being given a minimum of one hour to do so; or
(4) The individual specifically states that he or she will not cooperate.
(c) When an individual has refused to cooperate in the collection of the sample, CSOSA deems the following to be reasonably necessary means for obtaining the sample:
(1) Impose administrative sanctions;
(2) Request a revocation hearing by the releasing authority; and/or
(3) Refer the individual who refuses to cooperate for criminal prosecution for a class A misdemeanor pursuant to section 4(a)(5) of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 14135b(a)(5)).
[67 FR 54100, Aug. 21, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 19742, Apr. 22, 2003]
Pt. 812, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 812—Qualifying District of Columbia Code Offenses
As enacted by the Council of the District of Columbia, the DNA Sample Collection Act of 2001 identifies the criminal offenses listed in Table 1 of this appendix as “qualifying District of Columbia offenses” for the purposes of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (Pub. L. 106-546, 114 Stat. 2726). Table 2 of this Appendix lists these same offenses in numerical order under the D.C. Code, 1981 Edition. Table 3 of this Appendix lists these same offenses in numerical order under the D.C. Official Code, 2001 Edition. The tables follow:

# Table 1. Offense Listing
(1) Section 820 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (arson);
(2) Section 821 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (burning of one's own property with intent to defraud or injure another);
(3) Section 848 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (malicious burning, destruction, or injury of another's property);
(4) Section 803 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (assault with intent to kill, rob, or poison, or to commit first degree sexual abuse, second degree sexual abuse or child sexual abuse);
(5) Section 804 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia, (assault with intent to commit mayhem or with dangerous weapon);
(6) Section 806a of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (aggravated assault);
(7) Section 432(b) of the Revised Statutes, relating to the District of Columbia (assault on member of police force, campus or university special police, or fire department using a deadly or dangerous weapon);
(8) Section 807 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (mayhem or maliciously disfiguring);
(9) Section 3 of An Act for the protection of children in the District of Columbia and for other purposes (cruelty to children);
(10) Section 9 of An Act for the preservation of the public peace and the protection of
property within the District of Columbia (lewd, indecent, or obscene acts (knowingly in the presence of a child under the age of 16 years));
(11) Section 823 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (burglary);
(12) Section 875 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (incest);
(13) Section 872 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (certain obscene activities involving minors);
(14) Section 3 of the District of Columbia Protection of Minors Act of 1982 (sexual performances using minors);
(15) Section 812 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (kidnapping);
(16) Section 798 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (murder in the first degree);
(17) Section 799 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (murder in the first degree—obstructing railroad);
(18) Section 800 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (murder in the second degree);
(19) Section 802 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (voluntary manslaughter only);
(20) Section 802a of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (murder of a law enforcement officer);
(21) Section 813 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (abducting, enticing, or harboring a child for prostitution);
(22) Section 1 of An Act In relation to pandering, to define and prohibit the same and to provide for the punishment thereof (pandering; inducing or compelling an individual to engage in prostitution);
(23) Section 2 of An Act In relation to pandering, to define and prohibit the same and to provide for the punishment thereof (compelling an individual to live life of prostitution against his or her will);
(24) Section 4 of An Act In relation to pandering, to define and prohibit the same and to provide for the punishment thereof (causing spouse to live in prostitution);
(25) Section 5 of An Act In relation to pandering, to define and prohibit the same and to provide for the punishment thereof (detaining an individual in disorderly house for debt there contracted);
(26) Forcible rape, carnal knowledge or statutory rape as these offenses were proscribed until May 23, 1995 by section 808 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia;
(27) Section 810 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (robbery);
(28) Section 811 of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (attempted robbery);
(29) Section 811a of An Act To establish a code of law for the District of Columbia (carjacking);
(30) Indecent acts with children as this offense was proscribed until May 23, 1995 by section 103(a) of An Act To provide for the treatment of sexual psychopaths in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes;
(31) Enticing a child as this offense was proscribed until May 23, 1995 by section 103(b) of An Act To provide for the treatment of sexual psychopaths in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes;
(32) Sodomy as this offense was proscribed until May 23, 1995 by section 104(a) of An Act To provide for the treatment of sexual psychopaths in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes where the offense was forcible or committed against a minor;
(33) Section 201 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (first degree sexual abuse);
(34) Section 202 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (second degree sexual abuse);
(35) Section 203 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (third degree sexual abuse);
(36) Section 204 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (fourth degree sexual abuse);
(37) Section 205 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (misdemeanor sexual abuse);
(38) Section 207 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (first degree child sexual abuse);
(39) Section 208 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (second degree child sexual abuse);
(40) Section 209 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (enticing a child);
(41) Section 212 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (first degree sexual abuse of a ward);
(42) Section 213 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (second degree sexual abuse of a ward);
(43) Section 214 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (first degree sexual abuse of a patient or client);
(44) Section 215 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (second degree sexual abuse of a patient or client);
(45) Section 217 of the Anti-Sexual Abuse Act of 1994 (attempts to commit sexual offenses); and
(46) Attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the offenses listed in items (1) through (45) of this table.

# Table 2. Offense Listing (D.C. Official Code, 1981 Edition)
(1) D.C. Code section 22-401—arson;
(2) D.C. Code section 22-402—burning of one's own property with intent to defraud or injure another;
(3) D.C. Code section 22-403—malicious burning, destruction or injury of another's property;
(4) D.C. Code section 22-501—assault with intent to kill, rob, or poison, or to commit first degree sexual abuse, second degree sexual abuse or child sexual abuse;
(5) D.C. Code section 22-502—assault with intent to commit mayhem or with dangerous weapon;
(6) D.C. Code section 22-504.1—aggravated assault;
(7) D.C. Code section 22-505(b)—assault on member of police force, campus or university special police, or fire department using a deadly or dangerous weapon;
(8) D.C. Code section 22-506—mayhem or maliciously disfiguring;
(9) D.C. Code section 22-901—cruelty to children;
(10) D.C. Code section 22-1112(b)—lewd, indecent or obscene acts (knowingly in the presence of a child under the age of 16 years);
(11) D.C. Code section 22-1801—burglary;
(12) D.C. Code section 22-1901—incest;
(13) D.C. Code section 22-2001—certain obscene activities involving a minor;
(14) D.C. Code section 22-2012—sexual performances using minors;
(15) D.C. Code section 22-2101—kidnapping;
(16) D.C. Code section 22-2401—murder in the first degree;
(17) D.C. Code section 22-2402—murder in the first degree (obstructing railroad);
(18) D.C. Code section 22-2403—murder in the second degree;
(19) D.C. Code section 22-2405—voluntary manslaughter only;
(20) D.C. Code section 22-2406—murder of a law enforcement officer;
(21) D.C. Code section 22-2704—abducting, enticing, or harboring a child for prostitution;
(22) D.C. Code section 22-2705—pandering; inducing or compelling an individual to engage in prostitution;
(23) D.C. Code section 22-2706—compelling an individual to live life of prostitution against his or her will;
(24) D.C. Code section 22-2708—causing spouse to live in prostitution;
(25) D.C. Code section 22-2709—detaining an individual in disorderly house for debt there contracted;
(26) D.C. Code section 22-2801 [repealed May 23, 1995]—forcible rape, carnal knowledge or statutory rape;
(27) D.C. Code section 22-2901—robbery;
(28) D.C. Code section 22-2902—attempted robbery;
(29) D.C. Code section 22-2903—carjacking;
(30) D.C. Code section 22-3501(a) [repealed May 23, 1995]—indecent acts with children;
(31) D.C. Code section 22-3501(b) [repealed May 23, 1995]—enticing a child;
(32) D.C. Code section 22-3502(a) [repealed May 23, 1995]—sodomy where the offense was forcible or committed against a minor;
(33) D.C. Code section 22-4102—first degree sexual abuse;
(34) D.C. Code section 22-4103—second degree sexual abuse;
(35) D.C. Code section 22-4104—third degree sexual abuse;
(36) D.C. Code section 22-4105—fourth degree sexual abuse;
(37) D.C. Code section 22-4106—misdemeanor sexual abuse;
(38) D.C. Code section 22-4108—first degree child sexual abuse;
(39) D.C. Code section 22-4109—second degree child sexual abuse;
(40) D.C. Code section 22-4110—enticing a child;
(41) D.C. Code section 22-4113—first degree sexual abuse of a ward;
(42) D.C. Code section 22-4114—second degree sexual abuse of a ward;
(43) D.C. Code section 22-4115—first degree sexual abuse of a patient or client;
(44) D.C. Code section 22-4116—second degree sexual abuse of a patient or client;
(45) D.C. Code section 22-4118—attempts to commit sexual offenses;
(46) Attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the offenses listed in items (1) through (45) of this table.

# Table 3. Offense Listing (D.C. Official Code, 2001 Edition)
(1) D.C. Code section 22-301—arson;
(2) D.C. Code section 22-302—burning of one's own property with intent to defraud or injure another;
(3) D.C. Code section 22-303—malicious burning, destruction, or injury of another's property;
(4) D.C. Code section 22-401—assault with intent to kill, rob, or poison, or to commit first degree sexual abuse, second degree sexual abuse or child sexual abuse;
(5) D.C. Code section 22-402—assault with intent to commit mayhem or with dangerous weapon;
(6) D.C. Code section 22-404.01—aggravated assault;
(7) D.C. Code section 22-405(b)—assault on member of police force, campus or university special police, or fire department using a deadly or dangerous weapon;
(8) D.C. Code section 22-406—mayhem or maliciously disfiguring;
(9) D.C. Code section 22-801—burglary;
(10) D.C. Code section 22-1101—cruelty to children;
(11) D.C. Code section 22-1312(b)—lewd, indecent, or obscene acts (knowingly in the presence of a child under the age of 16 years);
(12) D.C. Code section 22-1901—incest;
(13) D.C. Code section 22-2001—kidnapping;
(14) D.C. Code section 22-2101—murder in the first degree;
(15) D.C. Code section 22-2102—murder in the first degree—obstructing railroad;
(16) D.C. Code section 22-2103—murder in the second degree;
(17) D.C. Code section 22-2105—voluntary manslaughter only;
(18) D.C. Code section 22-2106—murder of a law enforcement officer;
(19) D.C. Code section 22-2201—certain obscene activities involving minors;
(20) D.C. Code section 22-2704—abducting, enticing, or harboring a child for prostitution;
(21) D.C. Code section 22-2705—pandering; inducing or compelling an individual to engage in prostitution;
(22) D.C. Code section 22-2706—compelling an individual to live life of prostitution against his or her will;
(23) D.C. Code section 22-2708—causing spouse to live in prostitution;
(24) D.C. Code section 22-2709—detaining an individual in disorderly house for debt there contracted;
(25) D.C. Code section 22-2801—robbery;
(26) D.C. Code section 22-2802—attempted robbery;
(27) D.C. Code section 22-2803—carjacking;
(28) D.C. Code section 22-3002—first degree sexual abuse;
(29) D.C. Code section 22-3003—second degree sexual abuse;
(30) D.C. Code section 22-3004—third degree sexual abuse;
(31) D.C. Code section 22-3005—fourth degree sexual abuse;
(32) D.C. Code section 22-3006—misdemeanor sexual abuse;
(33) D.C. Code section 22-3008—first degree child sexual abuse;
(34) D.C. Code section 22-3009—second degree child sexual abuse;
(35) D.C. Code section 22-3010—enticing a child;
(36) D.C. Code section 22-3013—first degree sexual abuse of a ward;
(37) D.C. Code section 22-3014—second degree sexual abuse of a ward;
(38) D.C. Code section 22-3015—first degree sexual abuse of a patient or client;
(39) D.C. Code section 22-3016—second degree sexual abuse of a patient or client;
(40) D.C. Code section 22-3018—attempts to commit sexual offenses;
(41) D.C. Code section 22-3102—sexual performances using minors;
(42) D.C. Code section 22-3801(a) [repealed May 23, 1995]—indecent acts with children;
(43) D.C. Code section 22-3801(b) [repealed May 23, 1995]—enticing a child;
(44) D.C. Code section 22-3802(a) [repealed May 23, 1995]—sodomy where the offense was forcible or committed against a minor;
(45) D.C. Code section 22-4801 [repealed May 23, 1995]—forcible rape, carnal knowledge or statutory rape;
(46) D.C. Code section 22-1803 or section 22-1805a—attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the offenses listed in items (1) through (45) of this table.
[67 FR 54100, Aug. 21, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 19742, Apr. 22, 2003]
Pt. 813

# PART 813—GUIDANCE DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES
Sec.
813.1
Overview of guidance development process.
813.2
Guidance management process for CSOSA.
813.3
Requirements for clearance of CSOSA guidance documents.
813.4
Guidance development process for Pretrial Services Agency (PSA).
813.5
Required elements of guidance documents.
813.6
Public access to and notification of effective guidance documents.
813.7
Definition of “significant guidance documents”.
813.8
Significant guidance documents.
813.9
Petitions for withdrawal or modification of guidance.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; E.O. 13891, 84 FR 55235.

# Source:
85 FR 29865, May 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 813.1
Overview of guidance development process.
(a) This part governs all Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (CSOSA) and Pretrial Services Agency (PSA) employees and contractors involved with all phases of implementing CSOSA guidance documents.
(b) The procedures set forth in this part apply to all guidance documents, issued by all components of CSOSA and PSA.
(c) For purposes of this part, “guidance document” means an agency statement of general applicability, intended to have future effect on the behavior of regulated parties, that sets forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue, or an interpretation of statute or regulation. Guidance documents do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. A guidance document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.
(d) CSOSA may not cite, use, or rely on guidance documents that are rescinded, except to establish historical facts.
(e) Guidance documents not posted on the Agencies' web portal are considered rescinded, and not in effect.
(f) This part does not apply to:
(1) Rules promulgated pursuant to notice and comment under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, or similar statutory provisions;
(2) Rules exempt from rulemaking requirements under 5 U.S.C. 553(a);
(3) Rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice;
(4) Decisions of agency adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 or similar statutory provisions;
(5) Internal executive branch legal advice or legal advisory opinions addressed to executive branch officials;
(6) Agency statements of specific applicability, including advisory or legal opinions directed to particular parties about circumstance-specific questions (
e.g.,
case or investigatory letters responding to complaints, warning letters), notices regarding particular locations or facilities (
e.g.,
guidance pertaining to the use, operation, or control of a government facility or property), and correspondence with individual persons or entities (
e.g.,
congressional correspondence), except documents ostensibly directed to a particular party but designed to guide the conduct of the broader regulated public;
(7) Legal briefs, other court filings, or positions taken in litigation or enforcement actions;
(8) Agency statements that do not set forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statute or regulation, including speeches and individual presentations, editorials, media interviews, press materials, or congressional testimony that do not set forth for the first time a new regulatory policy;
(9) Guidance pertaining to military or foreign affairs functions;
(10) Grant solicitations and awards;
(11) Contract solicitations and awards; or
(12) Purely internal agency policies or guidance directed solely to the Agencies' employees or contractors or to other Federal agencies that are not intended to have substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties.
§ 813.2
Guidance management process for CSOSA.
All CSOSA guidance documents, as defined in § 813.1, require review and clearance in accordance with this section. CSOSA's guidance documents are created through the Office of Policy Analysis (OPA), and come in two primary forms, policy statements and procedures (also known as operating instructions). This section sets forth the process for review and clearance for each.
(a) Policy statements are:
(1) Prepared by CSOSA components and issued under the Director's signature;
(2) Remain in effect and active until rescinded, amended, or superseded;
(3) Are reviewed by all CSOSA Associate Directors or their designees;
(4) Are prepared using a standard format provided by the Office of Policy Analysis (OPA);
(5) Are developed and maintained using a four-stage process that includes planning, development, review, and maintenance, each stage taking place within specified timeframes; and
(6) Are reviewed and re-certified biennially.
(b) Procedures are:
(1) Coordinated through OPA;
(2) Evaluated to prevent the issuance of duplicative or conflicting procedures;
(3) Tied to a policy statement;
(4) Developed in a collaborative process that addresses all relevant stakeholders' input;
(5) Organized so that critical information is readily accessible and staff know how and where to find any related information; and
(6) Maintained in an archive system to ensure future decision-makers have adequate information regarding the basis for previous procedure determinations.
(c) The CSOSA Director, or his/her designee, may waive or truncate the internal policy development process where good cause exists, for example
where Congress or the executive branch mandates changes.
(d) CSOSA will notify OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) regularly of upcoming guidance documents. Notification will include a list of planned guidance documents, including summaries of each guidance document and the agency's recommended designation of “not significant” or “significant” as defined in § 813.7.
(e) CSOSA will seek significance determinations for guidance documents from OIRA. Where CSOSA preliminarily finds the guidance document to be significant, prior to publishing, CSOSA will provide the document to OIRA for review to determine if it meets the definition of “significant” under E.O. 13891.
§ 813.3
Requirements for clearance of CSOSA guidance documents.
CSOSA's review and clearance of guidance documents, including policy and procedures, occurs according to the stages set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a)
Policy management
—(1)
Stage 1—planning.
The CSOSA component coordinates with OPA to initiate the process.
(2)
Stage 2—development.
The CSOSA component provides the operational details and OPA will conduct the analysis and coordination and then prepare the initial document.
(3)
Stage 3—review.
The multi-layered review involves the Associate Directors, other CSOSA components and Employee Labor Relations (ELR), if appropriate. Upon completion, the Director reviews and signs the document for implementation.
(4)
Stage 4—maintenance.
The Office of Information Technology (OIT) posts the signed policies to CSOSA's intranet and/or public-facing web portal, and OPA maintains the central repository of all signed policies and associated working files and initiates the biennial review.
(b)
Procedure (also known as operating instruction—OI) management
—(1)
Stage 1—planning.
The CSOSA component submits a request to OPA for a new OI or an update to an existing OI;
(2)
Stage 2—development.
The CSOSA component prepares the content for the initial draft, which OPA reviews and affects any necessary coordination across CSOSA.
(3)
Stage 3—review.
The initial draft OI is submitted simultaneously to CSOSA Associate Directors, the Supervisory Policy Analyst, and Office of the Director for review. If applicable, notice is provided to union representatives; and upon clearance and approvals it is submitted to the Director for review, signature, and implementation.
(4)
Stage 4—maintenance.
The Office of Information Technology (OIT) posts the signed OI to CSOSA's intranet and/or public-facing web portal; OPA maintains the central repository of all signed OI and associated working files and initiates the biennial review.
§ 813.4
Guidance development process for Pretrial Services Agency (PSA).
Pretrial Services Agency (PSA), an independent agency within CSOSA, has its own guidance or policy development process, coordinated through PSA's Office of Planning, Policy, and Analysis (OPPA). PSA's guidance development process occurs as detailed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section:
(a) PSA's guidance documents are:
(1) Prepared by the responsible PSA Office and issued with the PSA Director's signature;
(2) Remain in effect and active until rescinded, amended, or superseded;
(3) Reviewed by all PSA Deputy Assistant Directors and/or designees;
(4) Prepared using a standard format provided by OPPA; and
(5) Developed using a process that includes planning, development, review, and maintenance in accordance with specified timeframes.
(b) PSA process and procedure documents are:
(1) Coordinated with assistance from OPPA, as appropriate, to avoid duplicative or conflicting procedures;
(2) Tied to a policy, when appropriate;
(3) Developed in collaboration with all stakeholders including the bargaining unit;
(4) Organized in a manner that is readily accessible by those who need it; and
(5) Maintained according to records management standards.
(c) The PSA Director, or his/her designee, may waive or truncate the internal development process where good cause exists, for example where Congress or the executive branch mandates changes within a specified period or allow changes that need to be implemented immediately.
(d) The process set forth in § 813.2(d) and (e) also applies to PSA guidance documents.
§ 813.5
Required elements of guidance documents.
CSOSA and PSA will ensure each guidance document:
(a) Complies with all relevant statutes and regulations;
(b) Identifies or includes:
(1) The term “guidance” or its functional equivalent;
(2) The component or division issuing the document;
(3) The activities to which or the person to whom the document applies;
(4) The date of issuance;
(5) If it is a revision, the name/number of the guidance document it replaces;
(6) The title of the guidance and the document identification number;
(7) Citation(s) to the statutory provision or regulation to which it applies or interprets;
(8) A disclaimer stating: “The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.”; and
(9) A short summary of the subject matter covered in the guidance document, at the top of the document.
§ 813.6
Public access to and notification of effective guidance documents.
CSOSA and PSA will:
(a) Ensure that all effective guidance documents are:
(1) Identified by a unique identifier which includes, at a minimum, the document's title and date of issuance or revision;
(2) Located on its web portal in a single, searchable, indexed database; and
(3) Available to the public.
(b) Note on the agency web portal that guidance documents lack the force and effect of law, except as authorized by law or as incorporated into a contract.
(c) Maintain and advertise on its web portal a means for the public to comment electronically on any guidance documents that are subject to the notice and comment procedures and to submit requests electronically for issuance, reconsideration, modification, or rescission of guidance documents in accordance with § 813.9.
§ 813.7
Definition of “significant guidance document”.
For purposes of this part, “significant guidance document” means a guidance document that will be disseminated to regulated entities or the general public and that may reasonably be anticipated:
(a) To lead to an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the U.S. economy, a sector of the U.S. economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities;
(b) To create serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another Federal agency;
(c) To alter materially the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
(d) To raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866, as further amended.
§ 813.8
Significant guidance documents.
(a) Though not legally binding, some agency guidance may result in a substantial economic impact. For example, the issuance of agency guidance may induce private parties to alter their conduct or conform to recommended standards of practices, thereby incurring costs beyond the
costs of complying with existing statutes and regulations.
(b) If there is a reasonable possibility the guidance may be considered “significant” within the meaning of § 813.7 or if the Agencies are uncertain whether the guidance may qualify as such, the Agencies must receive OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) approval before issuance, unless the Agencies and OIRA agree that exigency, safety, health, or other compelling cause warrants an exemption from some or all requirements.
(c) When an agency is assessing or explaining whether it believes a guidance document is significant, it should, at a minimum, provide the same level of analysis that would be required for a major determination under the Congressional Review Act.
1
1
See OMB Memorandum M-19-14, Guidance on Compliance with the Congressional Review Act (April 11, 2019).
(d) The following will apply to significant guidance documents:
(1) A period of public notice and comment of at least 30 days before the issuance of a final guidance document, and a public response from the Agencies to major concerns raised in comments. If the Agencies, for good cause, find that the notice and public comment are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, then no period of public comment will be provided, with notification and consultation with OIRA;
(2) Approval by the respective Agency Director;
(3) Review by OIRA under Executive Order 12866 before issuance;
(4) Compliance with the applicable requirements for regulations or rules, including significant regulatory actions, set forth in E.O. 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review), E.O. 13563 (Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review), E.O. 13609 (Promoting International Regulatory Cooperation), E.O. 13771 (Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs), and E.O. 13777 (Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda).
§ 813.9
Petitions for withdrawal or modification of guidance.
Any person may petition CSOSA or PSA to withdraw or modify a particular guidance document. A person may make a request by accessing the respective agency guidance web portal or by writing a letter to the respective Agencies. The Agencies' portals allow an individual to provide his or her contact information and guidance-related requests. The Agencies will respond in a timely manner, but no later than 90 days after receipt of the request.
Pt. 814

# PART 814—SALARY OFFSET PROCEDURES
Sec.
814.1
Purpose and Scope.
814.2
Definitions.
814.3
Entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses and decisions.
814.4
Exception to entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses, and final decisions.
814.5
Notification before deductions begin.
814.6
Petitions for hearing.
814.7
Petitions for hearing made after time expires.
814.8
Representation at the hearing.
814.9
Procedures for hearing and final decisions.
814.10
Method and source of deductions.
814.11
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
814.12
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
814.13
Refunds.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; sec. 8(1) of E.O. 11609, 36 FR 13747, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 586.

# Source:
787 FR 41586, July 13, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 814.1
Purpose and Scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part prescribes the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency's (CSOSA) standards and procedures for the collection of debts owed by CSOSA employees to the United States through voluntary or involuntary Agency salary offset.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This part applies to internal and Government-wide collections of debts, owed by CSOSA employees, through administrative offset from the current pay account of the debtor without his or her consent.
(2) The procedures contained in this part do not apply to—
(i) Any case where an employee consents to collection through deduction(s) from the employee's Agency pay account;
(ii) Debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(iii) Debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (
e.g.,
travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108); or
(v) Any other debt excluded by the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
(3) This part does not preclude a CSOSA employee from requesting waiver of an erroneous payment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt, in the manner prescribed by the Director. Similarly, this part does not preclude a CSOSA employee from requesting a waiver of the collection of a debt under any other applicable statutory authority.
(4) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of the debt, or the suspension or termination of collection actions, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711 or other applicable statutory authority.
§ 814.2
Definitions.
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Agency
means an executive department or agency; a military department; the United States Postal Service; the Postal Rate Commission; the United States Senate; the United States House of Representatives; any court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the judicial or legislative branches of the Government; or a Government Corporation.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt (as provided in 5 CFR 550.1110).
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, in which case the next business day will be considered the last day of the period.
Debt
means an amount determined by an appropriate official to be owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources.
Debt collection Center
means the Department of the Treasury, Department of Agriculture's National Finance Center or other Government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Debtor
means a Federal employee who owes a debt to the United States.
Delinquent debt
means a debt which the debtor does not pay or otherwise resolve by the date specified in the initial demand for payment, or in an applicable written repayment agreement or other instrument, including a post delinquency repayment agreement.
Director
means the CSOSA Director who is responsible for overall Agency (CSOSA/Pretrial Services Agency for the District of Columbia (PSA)) compliance with employee salary offset regulations. The CSOSA Director delegates the processing and administration of employee salary offset procedures for PSA employees to the PSA Director.
Disposable Pay
means that part of the debtor's current basic, special, incentive, retired, and retainer pay, or other authorized pay, remaining after deduction of amounts required by law to be withheld (other than deductions to execute garnishment orders in accordance with 5 CFR parts 581 and 582). For purposes of calculating disposable pay, legally required deductions that must be applied first include: tax levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (title
26, United States Code); properly withheld taxes, Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), Medicare; health and life insurance premiums; and retirement contributions. Amounts deducted under garnishment orders, including child support garnishment orders, are not legally required deductions for calculating disposable pay.
Employee
means any individual currently employed by CSOSA or PSA, as defined in this section, including seasonal and temporary employees and current members of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).
Evidence of Service
means information retained by the Agency indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of mailing the document, and the address and name of the debtor to whom it is being sent. A copy of the dated and signed written notice of intent to offset provided to the debtor pursuant to this part may be considered evidence of service for purposes of this part. Evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
FCCS
means Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), published in 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
Hearing
means a review of the documentary evidence to confirm the existence or amount of a debt or the terms of a repayment schedule. If the Director determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by such a review, such as when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity, the Director may provide an oral hearing.
Hearing official
is an administrative law judge or a hearing officer not under the control of the Director of CSOSA (per 5 CFR 550.1104(d)(7)). A hearing official oversees paper (documentary) and oral hearings and provides a written decision on salary offset issues.
Paying agency
means the agency employing the individual and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.
Salary Offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 owed by a Federal employee through deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of the employee without consent.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt owed by an employee to CSOSA or PSA or another agency as required or permitted by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or any other law.
§ 814.3
Entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses and decisions.
(a) Except as provided in § 814.4, each employee from whom CSOSA proposes to collect a debt using salary offset under this part is entitled to receive from CSOSA:
(1) A written notice as described in § 814.5; and
(2) An opportunity to petition for a hearing and, if a hearing is given, to receive a written decision from the official within 60 days of holding the hearing on the following issues:
(i) The determination concerning the existence or amount of the debt; and
(ii) The repayment schedule, if it was not established by written agreement between the employee and CSOSA.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 814.4
Exception to entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses, and final decisions.
For internal collections, the provisions of § 814.3 do not apply to:
(a) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(b) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(c) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time
of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
§ 814.5
Notification before deductions begin.
(a) CSOSA and/or a Debt Collection Center will provide employees notification before deductions begin. Except as provided in § 814.4, agency pay deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 must not be made unless the Director (or authorized designee) provides the employee a written notice at least 30 days before any deduction begins. (For debts outstanding more than 10 years on or before June 11, 2009, see also 31 CFR 285.7(d) for additional notification requirements.) The written notice must state at a minimum:
(1) CSOSA's determination that a debt is owed, including the origin, nature, and amount of that debt;
(2) CSOSA's intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The frequency and amount of the intended deduction (stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay except as provided in § 814.10) and the intention to continue the deductions until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved;
(4) An explanation of CSOSA's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS as defined in § 814.2;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy Government records relating to the debt or, if employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of such records;
(6) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to CSOSA) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and CSOSA; and documented in CSOSA's files;
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by an official arranged by CSOSA (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, a hearing official not under the control of the Director of CSOSA) if a petition is filed as prescribed in § 814.6;
(8) The method and time period for petitioning for a hearing;
(9) The name and address of the office to which the petition should be set.
(10) That the timely and complete filing of a petition for hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(11) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(12) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3731, or any other applicable statutory authority; or
(iii) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or any other applicable statutory authority;
(13) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(14) Unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(15) Proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(b) The Director, as defined in § 814.2, will retain evidence of service indicating the date of mailing of the notice.
§ 814.6
Petitions for hearing.
(a) To request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the offset schedule established by the Agency, the employee must send a written petition to the office designated in the notice of intent to offset, see § 814.5(a)(9), within 15 days of receipt of the deduction notice, stating why the employee believes the determination of the Agency concerning the existence or amount of the debt is in error or requesting changes to the proposed deduction frequency and amount.
(b) The petition must:
(1) Be signed by the employee;
(2) Fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, that the employee believes support the employee's position; and
(3) Specify whether an oral or paper (documentary) hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is requested, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.
§ 814.7
Petitions for hearing made after time expires.
(a) If the petition for hearing is filed after the 15-day period provided for in § 814.6, the Director may grant the request if the employee can establish that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control, or that the employee failed to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(b) An employee waives the right to a hearing, and will have his or her disposable pay offset in accordance with the offset schedule established by the Agency, if the employee:
(1) Fails to file a timely request for a hearing, unless such failure is excused; or
(2) Fails to appear at an oral hearing, of which the employee was notified, unless the hearing official determines that the failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
(c) The following procedure is instituted upon a failure to appear at a hearing.
(1) In the absence of good cause shown (
e.g.,
illness), an employee who fails to appear at a hearing shall be deemed, for the purpose of this part, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent.
(2) If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled and make a determination based upon oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties. With the agreement of both parties, the hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date, and both parties shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of the new hearing.
§ 814.8
Representation at the hearing.
(a) The creditor agency may be represented by legal counsel.
(b) The employee may be self-represented or may be represented by an individual of the employee's choosing, at the employee's expense.
§ 814.9
Procedures for hearing and final decisions.
(a)
Form of hearings
—(1)
General.
After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be a review of the written record, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit evidence and arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date, after which the record shall be closed. The date specified shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.
(2)
Oral hearing.
An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing, if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (
e.g.,
when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). Where an oral hearing is appropriate, the hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing,
e.g.,
the rules of evidence do not apply. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative will be given
full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and arguments;
(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing official interviews the employee; or
(iii) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentations.
(3)
Paper (documentary) hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record.
(4)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this part. Witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
(b)
Written decision
—(1)
Date of decision.
The hearing officer shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the hearing petition was received by the creditor agency, unless the employee requested a delay in the proceedings, in which case the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.
(2)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions, including a determination whether the employee's petition for hearing was baseless and resulted from an intent to delay creditor agency collection activity; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.
§ 814.10
Method and source of deductions.
(a)
Types of deductions.
Unless the debtor employee and the Director have agreed to an alternative repayment arrangement under § 814.9, a debt shall be collected in lump sum or by installment deductions at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account.
(b)
Limitation on amount of deduction.
Ordinarily, the size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted for any pay period must not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount, as outlined in § 814.10(c) and/or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court under section 124 of Public Law 97-276 (96 Stat. 1195).
(c)
Duration of deductions
—(1)
Lump sum.
If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the debt generally will be collected in one lump-sum deduction.
(2)
Inability to pay lump sum.
If the employee is deemed financially unable to pay in one lump sum or the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the debt shall be collected in installments. Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, installment deductions must be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of active duty or employment.
(d)
When deductions may begin.
(1) Deductions will begin on the date stated in the notice of intent, unless an alternative repayment agreement under § 814.9 has been accepted or the employee has filed a timely request for a hearing.
(2) If the employee files a timely petition for hearing as provided in § 814.6, deductions will begin after the hearing official has provided the employee with a hearing and a final written decision has been rendered in favor of the Agency.
(e)
Liquidation from final check.
If an employee retires, resigns, or the period of employment ends before collection of the debt is completed, the remainder of the debt will be offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from subsequent payments of any nature (
e.g.,
final salary payment or lump-sum leave) due the employee from the paying agency as of the date of separation.
(f)
Recovery from other payments due a separated employee.
If the debt cannot be satisfied by offset from any final payment due the employee on the date
of separation, the Director will liquidate the debt, where appropriate, by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from later payments of any kind due the former employee (
e.g.,
lump sum leave payment).
§ 814.11
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Debts owed to the Agency shall be assessed interest, penalties and administrative costs in accordance with FCCS, 31 CFR 901.9.
§ 814.12
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
An employee's involuntary payment, of all or any portion of a debt being collected under 5 U.S.C. 5514 must not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
§ 814.13
Refunds.
(a) CSOSA will promptly refund amounts paid or deducted under this subpart to the appropriate party, when:
(1) A debt is waived or otherwise found not owing to the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation); or
(2) The employee's paying agency is directed by an administrative or judicial order to refund amounts deducted from his or her current pay.
(b) Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
PARTS 815-899 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. IX (7-1-25 Edition)
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council

# CHAPTER IX—NATIONAL CRIME PREVENTION AND PRIVACY COMPACT COUNCIL
Part
Page
900
[Reserved]
901
Fingerprint submission requirements
921
902
Dispute adjudication procedures
922
904
State criminal history record screening standards
924
905
National Fingerprint File (NFF) program qualification requirements
925
906
Outsourcing of noncriminal justice administrative functions
925
907
Compact council procedures for compliant conduct and responsible use of the Interstate Identification Index (III) System for noncriminal justice purposes
926
908-999
[Reserved]
PART 900 [RESERVED]
Pt. 901

# PART 901—FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
901.1
Purpose and authority.
901.2
Interpretation of fingerprint submission requirements.
901.3
Approval of delayed fingerprint submission requests.
901.4
Audits.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
70 FR 36027, June 22, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.1
Purpose and authority.
The Compact Council is established pursuant to the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact (Compact), title 42, U.S.C., chapter 140, subchapter II, section 14616. The purpose of these provisions is to interpret the Compact, as it applies to the required submission of fingerprints, along with requests for Interstate Identification Index (III) records, by agencies authorized to access and receive criminal history records under Public Law 92-544, and to establish protocols and procedures applicable to the III and its use for noncriminal justice purposes.
§ 901.2
Interpretation of fingerprint submission requirements.
(a) Article V of the Compact requires the submission of fingerprints or other approved forms of positive identification with requests for criminal history record checks for noncriminal justice purposes. The requirement for the submission of fingerprints may be satisfied in two ways:
(1) The fingerprints should be submitted contemporaneously with the request for criminal history information, or
(2) For purposes approved by the Compact Council, a delayed submission of fingerprints may be permissible under exigent circumstances.
(b) A preliminary III name based check may be made pending the receipt of the delayed submission of the fingerprints. The state repository may authorize terminal access to authorized agencies designated by the state, to enable them to conduct such checks. Such access must be made pursuant to the security policy set forth by the state's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Systems Agency (formerly known as the Control Terminal Agency).
§ 901.3
Approval of delayed fingerprint submission requests.
(a) A state may, based upon exigent circumstances, apply for delayed submission of fingerprints supporting requests for III records by agencies authorized to access and receive criminal history records under Public Law 92-544. Such applications must be sent to the Compact Council Chairman and include information sufficient to fully describe the emergency nature of the situation in which delayed submission authority is being sought, the risk to health and safety of the individuals involved, and the reasons why the submission of fingerprints contemporaneously with the search request is not feasible.
(b) In evaluating requests for delayed submissions, the Compact Council must utilize the following criteria:
(1) The risk to health and safety; and
(2) The emergency nature of the request.
(c) Upon approval of the application by the Compact Council, the authorized agency may conduct a III name check pending submission of the fingerprints. The fingerprints must be submitted within the time frame specified by the Compact Council. For the purposes of this part, “time frame” means the number of days that elapse between the date on which the name search was conducted and the date on which the state repository either positively identifies the fingerprint subject or forwards the fingerprints to the FBI or the date a Federal agency forwards the fingerprints to the FBI.
(d) Once a specific proposal has been approved by the Compact Council, another state may apply for delayed fingerprint submission consistent with the approved proposal, provided that the state has a related Public Law 92-544 approved state statute, by submitting the application to the FBI Compact Officer, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Module C-3, Clarksburg, WV 26306-0001.
(e) Part 901 is also applicable to any federal agency authorized to access
criminal history records pursuant to Federal statute or Executive Order for noncriminal justice purposes.
§ 901.4
Audits.
(a) Audits of authorized State agencies that access the III System shall be conducted by the State's Compact Officer or, in the absence of a Compact Officer, the chief administrator for the criminal history record repository. The responsible Federal CJIS Systems Officer shall ensure that similar audits are conducted of authorized Federal agencies. Such audits shall be conducted to verify adherence to the provisions of part 901 and the FBI's CJIS Security Policy.
(b) Authorized agencies shall cause to be collected an appropriate record of each instance of III System access through a manual or electronic log. The log shall be maintained for a minimum one-year period to facilitate the audits and compliance reviews. Such records shall be maintained in accordance with the CJIS Security Policy. (For information on this security policy, contact your CJIS Systems Officer.)
(c) The audit and compliance reviews must include mechanisms to determine whether fingerprints were submitted within the time frame specified by the Compact Council.
(d) In addition to the audits as stated above, the FBI CJIS Audit staff shall also conduct routine systematic compliance reviews of State repositories, Federal agencies, and as necessary other authorized III System user agencies.
Pt. 902

# PART 902—DISPUTE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES
Sec.
902.1
Purpose and authority.
902.2
Raising disputes.
902.3
Referral to Dispute Resolution Committee.
902.4
Action by Council Chairman.
902.5
Hearing procedures.
902.6
Appeal to the Attorney General.
902.7
Court action.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
68 FR 66341, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 902.1
Purpose and authority.
The purpose of Part 902 is to establish protocols and procedures for the adjudication of disputes by the Compact Council. The Compact Council is established pursuant to the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact (Compact), Title 42, U.S.C., Chapter 140, Subchapter II, Section 14616.
§ 902.2
Raising disputes.
(a) Cognizable disputes may be based upon:
(1) A claim that the Council has misinterpreted the Compact or one of the Council's rules or standards established under Article VI of the Compact;
(2) A claim that the Council has exceeded its authority under the Compact;
(3) A claim that in establishing a rule or standard or in taking other action, the Council has failed to comply with its bylaws or other applicable procedures established by the Council; or the rule, standard or action is not otherwise in accordance with applicable law; or
(4) A claim by a Compact Party that another Compact Party has failed to comply with a provision of the Compact or with any rule or standard established by the Council.
(b) Only a Party State, the FBI, or a person, organization, or government entity directly aggrieved by the Council's interpretation of the Compact or any rule or standard established by the Council pursuant to the Compact, or in connection with a matter covered under Section 902.2(a)(4), may raise a cognizable dispute. Such disputants may request a hearing on a dispute by contacting the Compact Council Chairman in writing at the Compact Council Office, Module C3, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, West Virginia 26306.
(c) The Chairman may ask the requester for more particulars, supporting documentation or materials as the circumstances warrant.
(d) A dispute may not be based solely upon a disagreement with the merits (substantive wisdom or advisability) of a rule or standard validly established by the Council within the scope of its authority under the Compact. However, nothing in this rule prohibits further discussion of the merits of a rule
or standard at any regularly scheduled Council meeting.
§ 902.3
Referral to Dispute Resolution Committee.
(a) The five person Dispute Resolution Committee membership shall be determined according to Compact Article VI (g). Should a dispute arise with an apparent conflict of interest between the disputant and a Committee member, the Committee member shall recuse himself/herself and the Compact Council Chairman shall determine an appropriate substitute for that particular dispute. In the case when the Compact Council Chairman is the committee member with the conflict, the Chairman shall take appropriate steps to appoint a replacement that resolves the conflict.
(b) The Compact Council Chairman shall refer the dispute, together with all supporting documents and materials, to the Council's Dispute Resolution Committee.
(c) The Dispute Resolution Committee shall recommend hearings to all disputants who raise issues that are not clearly frivolous or without merit. If the Committee recommends denying a hearing, it must articulate its reason or reasons for doing so in writing.
(d) The Dispute Resolution Committee shall consider the matter and:
(1) Refer it to the Council for a hearing;
(2) Recommend that the Council deny a hearing if the Committee concludes that the matter does not constitute a cognizable dispute under § 902.2(a); or
(3) Request more information from the person or organization raising the dispute or from other persons or organizations.
§ 902.4
Action by Council Chairman.
(a) The Chairman shall communicate the decision of the Dispute Resolution Committee to the person or organization that raised the dispute.
(b) If a hearing is not granted, the disputant may appeal this decision to the Attorney General. If the Attorney General believes the disputant has raised an issue that is not frivolous or without merit, the Attorney General may order the Compact Council Chairman to grant a hearing.
(c) If a hearing is granted, the Chairman shall:
(1) Include the dispute on the agenda of a scheduled meeting of the Council or, at the Chairman's discretion, schedule a special Council meeting;
(2) Notify the person or organization raising the dispute as to the date of the hearing and the rights of disputants under § 902.5 (Hearing Procedures); and
(3) Include the matter of the dispute in the prior public notice of the Council meeting required by Article VI (d)(1) of the Compact.
§ 902.5
Hearing procedures.
(a) The hearing shall be open to the public pursuant to Article VI (d)(1) of the Compact.
(b) The Council Chairman or his/her designee shall preside over the hearing and may limit the number of, and the length of time allowed to, presenters or witnesses.
(c) The person or organization raising the dispute or a Compact Party charged under the provisions of § 902.2(a)(4) shall be entitled to:
(1) File additional written materials with the Council at least ten days prior to the hearing;
(2) Appear at the hearing, in person and/or by counsel;
(3) Make an oral presentation; and
(4) Call and cross-examine witnesses.
(d) Subject to the discretion of the Chairman, other persons and organizations may be permitted to appear and make oral presentations at the hearing or provide written materials to the Council concerning the dispute.
(e) All Council members, including a member or members who raised the dispute that is the subject of the hearing shall be entitled to participate fully in the hearing and vote on the final Council decision concerning the dispute.
(f) The Council shall, if necessary, continue the hearing to a subsequent Council meeting.
(g) Summary minutes of the hearing shall be made and transcribed and shall be available for inspection by any person at the Council office within the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(h) The proceedings of the hearing shall be recorded and, as necessary, transcribed. A transcript of the hearing
will be made and forwarded to the Attorney General if an appeal is filed pursuant to Section (c) of Article XI of the Compact.
(i) The Council's decision on the dispute shall be based upon a majority vote of Council members or their proxies present (as per Compact Article VI and Council Bylaws) and voting at the hearing. The Council's decision on the dispute shall be published in the
Federal Register
as provided by Section (a)(2) of Article XI and Section (e) of Article VI.
(j) The Council Chairman shall advise Council members and hearing participants of the right of appeal provided by Section (c) of Article XI of the Compact.
§ 902.6
Appeal to the Attorney General.
(a) The Federal Bureau of Investigation or a Compact Party State may appeal the decision of the Council to the U.S. Attorney General pursuant to Section (c) of Article XI of the Compact.
(b) Appeals shall be filed and conducted pursuant to rules and procedures that may be established by the Attorney General.
(c) Appropriate notice of an appeal shall be communicated to the Council Chairman by the appealing party.
§ 902.7
Court action.
Pursuant to Section (c) of Article XI of the Compact, a decision by the Attorney General on an appeal under § 902.6 may be appealed by filing a suit seeking to have the decision reversed in the appropriate district court of the United States.
Pt. 904

# PART 904—STATE CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD SCREENING STANDARDS
Sec.
904.1
Purpose and authority.
904.2
Interpretation of the criminal history record screening requirement.
904.3
State criminal history record screening standards.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
70 FR 36028, June 22, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 904.1
Purpose and authority.
Pursuant to the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact (Compact), title 42, U.S.C., chapter 140, subchapter II, section 14616, Article IV (c), the Compact Council hereby establishes record screening standards for criminal history record information received by means of the III System for noncriminal justice purposes.
§ 904.2
Interpretation of the criminal history record screening requirement.
Compact Article IV(c) provides that “Any record obtained under this Compact may be used only for the official purposes for which the record was requested.” Further, Article III(b)(1)(C) requires that each Party State appoint a Compact officer who shall “regulate the in-State use of records received by means of the III System from the FBI or from other Party States.” To ensure compliance with this requirement, Compact Officers receiving records from the FBI or other Party States are specifically required to “ensure that record entries that may not legally be used for a particular noncriminal justice purpose are deleted from the response and, if no information authorized for release remains, an appropriate ‘no record’ response is communicated to the requesting official.” Compact Article IV(c)(3).
§ 904.3
State criminal history record screening standards.
The following record screening standards relate to criminal history record information received for noncriminal justice purposes as a result of a national search subject to the Compact utilizing the III System.
(a) The State Criminal History Record Repository or an authorized agency in the receiving state will complete the record screening required under § 904.2 for all noncriminal justice purposes.
(b) Authorized officials performing record screening under § 904.3(a) shall screen the record to determine what information may legally be disseminated for the authorized purpose for which the record was requested. Such record screening will be conducted pursuant
to the receiving state's applicable statute, executive order, regulation, formal determination or directive of the state attorney general, or other applicable legal authority.
(c) If the state receiving the record has no law, regulation, executive order, state attorney general directive, or other legal authority providing guidance on the screening of criminal history record information received from the FBI or another state as a result of a national search, then the record screening under § 904.3(a) shall be performed in the same manner in which the state screens its own records for noncriminal justice purposes.
Pt. 905

# PART 905—NATIONAL FINGERPRINT FILE (NFF) PROGRAM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
905.1
Definition.
905.2
Purpose and authority.
905.3
Participation in the NFF Program.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
70 FR 73587, Dec. 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.1
Definition.
“National Fingerprint File” means a database of fingerprints, or other uniquely personal identifying information, relating to an arrested or charged individual maintained by the FBI to provide positive identification of record subjects indexed in the III System.
§ 905.2
Purpose and authority.
The purpose of this part 905 is to require each National Fingerprint File (NFF) participant to meet the standards set forth in the NFF Qualification Requirements as established by the Compact Council (Council). The Council is established pursuant to the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Act (Compact), title 42, U.S.C., § 14616.
§ 905.3
Participation in the NFF Program.
Each NFF Program participant shall meet the standards set forth in the NFF Qualification Requirements as established by the Council and endorsed by the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Advisory Policy Board; however, such standards shall not interfere or conflict with the FBI's administration of the III, including the NFF, for criminal justice purposes. Each participant's performance will be audited and measured by criteria designed to assess compliance with those requirements. Measurements by which to determine compliance to the NFF Qualification Requirements are outlined in the FBI and State Sampling Standards. (For a copy of the standards, contact the FBI Compact Officer, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Module C-3, Clarksburg, WV 26306-0001.)
Pt. 906

# PART 906—OUTSOURCING OF NONCRIMINAL JUSTICE ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS
Sec.
906.1
Purpose and authority.
906.2
Third party handling of criminal history record information.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
69 FR 75245, Dec. 16, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 906.1
Purpose and authority.
The purpose of this part 906 is to establish rules and procedures for third parties to perform noncriminal justice administrative functions involving access to Interstate Identification Index (III) information. The Compact Council is establishing this rule pursuant to the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact (Compact), title 42, U.S.C., chapter 140, subchapter II, section 14616. The scope of this rule is limited to noncriminal justice background checks in so far as they are governed by the provisions of the Compact as set forth in 42 U.S.C. 14614 and 14616.
§ 906.2
Third party handling of criminal history record information.
(a) Except as prohibited in paragraph (b) of this section, criminal history record information obtained from the III System for noncriminal justice purposes may be made available:
(1) To a governmental agency pursuant to a contract or agreement under which the agency performs activities or functions for another governmental
agency that is authorized to obtain criminal history record information by a federal statute, federal executive order or a state statute that has been approved by the United States Attorney General; and
(2) To a private contractor, or other nongovernmental entity or organization, pursuant to a contractual agreement under which the entity or organization performs activities or functions for a governmental agency authorized to obtain criminal history record information as identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or for a nongovernmental entity authorized to obtain such information by federal statute or executive order.
(b) Criminal history record information provided in response to fingerprint-based III System record requests initiated by authorized governmental agencies or nongovernmental entities for noncriminal justice purposes may be made available to contracting agencies or organizations manually or electronically for such authorized purposes. Such contractors, agencies, or organizations shall not be permitted to have direct access to the III System by computer terminal or other automated means which would enable them to initiate record requests, provided however, the foregoing restriction shall not apply with respect to: (1) Persons, agencies, or organizations that may enter into contracts with the FBI or State criminal history record repositories for the performance of authorized functions requiring direct access to criminal history record information; and (2) any direct access to records covered by 42 U.S.C. 14614(b).
(c) The contracts or agreements authorized by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall specifically describe the purposes for which criminal history record information may be made available to the contractor and shall incorporate by reference a security and management control outsourcing standard approved by the Compact Council after consultation with the United States Attorney General. The security and management control outsourcing standard shall specifically authorize access to criminal history record information; limit the use of the information to the purposes for which it is provided; prohibit retention and/or dissemination of the information except as specifically authorized in the security and management control outsourcing standard; ensure the security and confidentiality of the information; provide for audits and sanctions; provide conditions for termination of the contractual agreement; and contain such other provisions as the Compact Council, after consultation with the United States Attorney General, may require.
(d) The exchange of criminal history record information with an authorized governmental or nongovernmental entity or contractor pursuant to this part is subject to cancellation for use, retention or dissemination of the information in violation of federal statute, regulation or executive order, or rule, procedure or standard established by the Compact Council in consultation with the United States Attorney General.
Pt. 907

# PART 907—COMPACT COUNCIL PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANT CONDUCT AND RESPONSIBLE USE OF THE INTERSTATE IDENTIFICATION INDEX (III) SYSTEM FOR NONCRIMINAL JUSTICE PURPOSES
Sec.
907.1
Purpose and authority.
907.2
Applicability.
907.3
Assessing compliance.
907.4
Methodology for resolving noncompliance.
907.5
Sanction adjudication.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 14616.

# Source:
70 FR 69898, Nov. 18, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 907.1
Purpose and authority.
Part 907 establishes policies and procedures to ensure that use of the III System for noncriminal justice purposes complies with the National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact (Compact) and with rules, standards, and procedures established by the Compact Council regarding application and response procedures, record dissemination and use, response times,
data quality, system security, accuracy, privacy protection, and other aspects of III System operation for noncriminal justice purposes. The rule is established pursuant to Article VI of the Compact, which authorizes the Compact Council to promulgate rules, procedures, and standards governing the use of the III System for noncriminal justice purposes. The rule requires responsible authorized access to the System and proper use of records that are obtained from the System. The rule provides comprehensive procedures for a coordinated compliance effort among the Compact Council, the FBI, and local, State and Federal government agencies, and encourages the cooperation of all affected parties.
§ 907.2
Applicability.
This rule applies to III System access for noncriminal justice purposes as covered by the Compact,
see
42 U.S.C. 14614 and 14616, and use of information obtained by means of the System for such purposes. The rule establishes procedures for ensuring that the FBI's and Compact Party States' criminal history record repositories carry out their responsibilities under the Compact, as set out in the National Fingerprint File (NFF) Qualification Requirements, and that local, State and Federal government agencies using the III System for noncriminal justice purposes comply with the Compact and with applicable Compact Council rules.
§ 907.3
Assessing compliance.
(a) The FBI CJIS Division staff regularly conducts systematic compliance reviews of state repositories. These reviews may include, as necessary, reviews of III System user agencies, including governmental and nongovernmental noncriminal justice entities that submit fingerprints to the State repositories and criminal justice and noncriminal justice agencies with direct access to the III System. These reviews may include, as necessary, the governmental and nongovernmental noncriminal justice entities authorized to submit fingerprints directly to the FBI. The reviews may consist of systematic analyses and evaluations, including on-site investigations, and shall be as comprehensive as necessary to adequately ensure compliance with the Compact and Compact Council rules. Violations may also be reported or detected independently of a review.
(b) The FBI CJIS Division staff or the audit team established to review the FBI's noncriminal justice use of the III System shall prepare a draft report describing the nature and results of each review and set out all findings of compliance and noncompliance, including any reasons for noncompliance and the circumstances surrounding the noncompliance. If the agency under review is the FBI or another Federal agency, the draft report shall be forwarded to the FBI Compact Officer. If the agency under review is a State or local agency in a Party State, the draft report shall be forwarded to the State Compact Officer. If the agency under review is a State or local agency in a Nonparty State, the draft report shall be forwarded to the chief administrator of the State repository.
(c) The Compact Officer of the FBI or a Party State or the chief administrator of the State repository in a Nonparty State shall be afforded the opportunity to forward comments and supporting materials to the FBI CJIS Division staff or to the audit team.
(d) The FBI CJIS Division staff or the audit team shall review any comments and materials received and shall incorporate applicable revisions into a final report. The final report shall be provided to the Compact Officer of the FBI or a Party State or the chief administrator of the State repository in a Nonparty State to whom the draft report was sent. If the agency under review is a State or local agency, a copy of the report shall be provided to the FBI Compact Officer. If the agency under review is being reviewed for the first time, the letter transmitting the report shall provide that sanctions will not be imposed regarding any deficiencies set out in the report. The letter shall also advise, however, that the deficiencies must be remedied and failure to do so before the agency is reviewed again will result in the initiation of remedial action pursuant to § 907.4.
§ 907.4
Methodology for resolving noncompliance.
(a) Subsequent to each compliance review that is not a first-time agency review, the final report shall be forwarded to the Compact Council Sanctions Committee (Sanctions Committee). The Sanctions Committee shall review the report and if it concludes that no violations occurred or no violations occurred that are serious enough to require further action, it shall forward its conclusions and recommendations to the Compact Council Chairman. If the Compact Council Chairman approves the Sanctions Committee's recommendations, the Compact Council Chairman shall send a letter to this effect to the FBI or Party State Compact Officer or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State that has executed a Memorandum of Understanding. For all remaining states, the Compact Council Chairman shall forward the recommendations to the FBI Director or Designee who, upon approval of the recommendations, shall send a letter to this effect to the chief administrator of the state repository. If the agency under review is a state or local agency, a copy of the Compact Council Chairman's or FBI Director's or Designee's letter shall be provided to the FBI Compact Officer.
(b) Should the Sanctions Committee conclude that a violation has occurred that is serious enough to require redress, the Sanctions Committee shall recommend to the Compact Council a course of action necessary to bring the offending agency into compliance and require the offending agency to provide assurances that subsequent violations will not occur. In making its recommendation, the Sanctions Committee shall consider the minimal action necessary to ensure compliance or shall explain why corrective action is not required. This may include, but not be limited to, requiring a plan of action by the offending agency to achieve compliance, with benchmarks and performance measures, and/or requiring the agency to seek technical assistance to identify sources of the problem and proposed resolutions. If the Compact Council or, when applicable, the FBI Director or Designee approves the Sanctions Committee's recommendations, progressive actions shall be initiated as set forth below. The letters referred to in this paragraph (907.4(b)) shall be from the Compact Council Chairman when the offending agency is the FBI or another federal agency, a state or local agency in a Party State, or a state or local agency in a Nonparty State that has executed a Memorandum of Understanding. The documentation and written responses from the aforementioned agencies to such letters shall be sent to the Compact Council Chairman. For all remaining states, the Compact Council Chairman shall forward the Compact Council's recommendations to the FBI Director or Designee who, upon approval of the recommendations, shall send the letters; accordingly, all documentation and written responses relating to the FBI Director's or Designee's letters shall be sent to the FBI Director or Designee who shall make such letters available to the Compact Council Chairman. If the offending agency is an agency other than the FBI or a state repository, any response letters from the offending agency shall be sent to the Compact Officer of the FBI or Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State and shall outline the course of action the offending agency will undertake to correct the deficiencies and provide assurances that subsequent violations will not recur.
(1) As noted above, a letter shall be sent to the Compact Officer of the FBI or Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State identifying the violations and setting out the actions necessary to come into compliance. The letter shall provide that if compliance is not achieved and assurances provided that minimize the probability that subsequent violations will occur, and non-compliance is not excused, the Compact Council may authorize the FBI to refuse to process requests for criminal history record checks for noncriminal justice purposes from the offending agency and, if the offending agency is a criminal justice agency, may request the Director of the FBI to
take appropriate action against the offending agency consistent with the recommendations of the Compact Council. The letter shall direct the Compact Officer of the FBI or Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State to submit a written response within 30 calendar days from the date of the letter, unless a more expeditious response is required. If the offending agency is a state or local agency, a copy of the Compact Council Chairman's or FBI Director's or Designee's letter shall be provided to the FBI Compact Officer. The Compact Council Chairman shall refer the response letter to the Sanctions Committee for appropriate action.
(2) If the Sanctions Committee deems the response letter under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to be insufficient, or if no response is received within the allotted time, the Sanctions Committee shall report its finding to the Compact Council. If the Compact Council agrees with the Sanctions Committee's finding, a letter shall be sent to the Director of the FBI (if the offending agency is the FBI or another federal agency) or to the head of the state agency in which the state repository resides (if the offending agency is a state or local agency), requesting assistance in correcting the deficiencies. The letter shall provide that the offending agency is being placed on probationary status. A copy of the letter shall be sent to the Compact Officer of the FBI or Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State. If the offending agency is a state or local agency, a copy of the Compact Council Chairman's or FBI Director's or Designee's letter shall be provided to the FBI Compact Officer. A written response to the letter shall be required within 20 calendar days from the date of the letter unless a more expeditious response is required. The Compact Council Chairman shall refer the response letter to the Sanctions Committee for appropriate action.
(3) If the Sanctions Committee deems the response letter under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to be insufficient, or if no response is received within the allotted time, the Sanctions Committee shall report its finding to the Compact Council. If the Compact Council agrees with the Sanctions Committee's finding, a letter shall be sent to the U. S. Attorney General (if the offending agency is the FBI or another federal agency) or to the elected/appointed state official who has oversight of the department in which the state repository resides (if the offending agency is a state or local agency), requesting assistance in correcting the deficiencies. If the state official is not the Governor, a copy of the letter shall be sent to the Governor. A copy of the letter shall also be sent to the FBI Compact Officer and (if the offending agency is a state or local agency) to the State Compact Officer or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State. The letter shall provide that a written response is required within 20 calendar days of the date of the letter, and that if a sufficient response is not received within that time, sanctions may be imposed that could result in suspension of the offending agency's access to the III System for noncriminal justice purposes. The Compact Council Chairman shall refer the response letter to the Sanctions Committee for appropriate action.
(4) If no response letter is received under paragraph (b)(3) of this section within the allotted time, or if the Sanctions Committee deems the response to be insufficient, the Sanctions Committee shall report its finding to the Compact Council. If the Compact Council agrees with the Sanctions Committee's finding, the Compact Council Chairman or the FBI Director or Designee shall direct the FBI Compact Officer to take appropriate action to suspend noncriminal justice access to the III System by the offending agency. If the offending agency is a criminal justice agency, the Compact Council Chairman shall request the Director of the FBI to take appropriate action to suspend noncriminal justice access to the III System by the offending agency.
(5) Reinstatement of full service by the FBI shall occur after the Compact Officer of the FBI or a Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State provides
satisfactory documentation that the deficiencies have been corrected or a process has been initiated to correct the deficiencies. Upon approval of the documentation by the Sanctions Committee in consultation with the Compact Council Chairman, the Compact Council Chairman or the FBI Director or Designee shall request the FBI Compact Officer to take appropriate action to reinstate full service. Letters to this effect shall be sent to all persons who have previously received letters relating to the deficiencies and resulting suspension of service. The decision to reinstate full service shall be considered for ratification by the Compact Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(c) For good cause, the Compact Council Chairman and the FBI Director or Designee shall be authorized to extend the number of days allowed for the response letters required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
§ 907.5
Sanction adjudication.
(a) A Compact Officer of the FBI or a Party State or the chief administrator of the state repository in a Nonparty State may dispute a sanction under this Part by asking the Compact Council Chairman for an opportunity to address the Compact Council.
(b) Unresolved disputes based on the Compact Council's issuance of sanctions under this Part may be referred to the Compact Council Dispute Adjudication Committee when pertaining to disputes described under ARTICLE XI(a) of the Compact.
(c) Nothing prohibits the Compact Council from requesting the FBI to exercise immediate and necessary action to preserve the integrity of the III System pursuant to Article XI(b) of the Compact.
PARTS 908-999 [RESERVED]
28 CFR Ch. XI (7-1-25 Edition)
Dept. of Justice and Dept. of State

# CHAPTER XI—DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Part
Page
1100
Trafficking in persons
933
1101-1199
[Reserved]
Pt. 1100

# PART 1100—TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Victims of Severe Forms of Trafficking in Persons
Sec.
1100.25
Definitions.
1100.27
Purpose and scope.
1100.29
The roles and responsibilities of federal law enforcement, immigration, and Department of State officials under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA).
1100.31
Procedures for protecting and providing services to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons in federal custody.
1100.33
Access to information and translation services for victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
1100.35
Authority to permit continued presence in the United States for victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
1100.37
Requirements to train appropriate personnel in identifying and protecting victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, 552a; 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1104, 1252; 22 U.S.C. 7101, 7105; 42 U.S.C. 10606 and 10607; and section 107(c) of Public Law 106-386 (114 Stat. 1464, 1477).

# Source:
66 FR 38518, July 24, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Victims of Severe Forms of Trafficking in Persons
§ 1100.25
Definitions.
In this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Admission
and
Admitted
mean, with respect to an alien, the lawful entry of the alien into the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer (8 U.S.C. 1101).
Alien
means any person not a citizen or national of the United States (8 U.S.C. 1101).
Attorney General Guidelines
means the
Attorney General Guidelines for Victim and Witness Assistance 2000,
which contain a policy guidance on how to treat crime victims and witnesses; these guidelines are available through the Internet on the Department of Justice's website.
Coercion
means threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Commercial sex act
means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Debt bondage
means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of his or her personal services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Family members of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons
means spouses, children, parents, or siblings whom traffickers have targeted or are likely to target and for whom protections from harm may reasonably be provided. At the discretion of the responsible official, this classification may be extended to include other family members. This definition is only applicable to the protections from harm referred to in this subpart.
Federal custody
means that statutory detention and custodial authority exercised by personnel of federal agencies, bureaus, boards, divisions, programs, and offices.
Federal victims' rights legislation
means the following statutes, as amended: the Victim and Witness Protection Act of 1982 (VWPA), Public Law 97-291, 96 Stat. 1248; the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, Public Law 98-473, 98 Stat. 2170; the Victims Rights and Restitution Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, 104 Stat. 4820; the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Public Law 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796; the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Public Law 104-132, 110 Stat. 1214; the Victim Rights Clarification Act of 1997, Public Law 105-6, 111 Stat. 12; and the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of
2000 (VTVPA), Public Law 106-386, 114 Stat. 1464.
INA
means the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
Involuntary servitude
includes a condition of servitude induced by means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such condition, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Responsible official
refers to the agency official designated to provide the services described in 42 U.S.C. 10607(a).
Section 107(c)
means section 107(c) of TVPA, Division A of Public Law 106-386.
Services to victims
refer to those services to be provided pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 10607(c), unless otherwise specified in the TVPA or this subpart.
Severe forms of trafficking in persons
means sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Sex trafficking
means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act (22 U.S.C. 7102).
TVPA
means the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386, Division A, October 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1464, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 7105,
et seq.
United States
means the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the territories and possessions of the United States (22 U.S.C. 7102).
Victims' rights
refer to crime victims' rights under 42 U.S.C. 10606(b), as well as in other federal victims' rights legislation.
§ 1100.27
Purpose and scope.
(a) Under section 107(c) of the TVPA, both the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of State (DOS) have been directed to promulgate regulations to implement the following:
(1) Procedures for appropriate federal employees to ensure, to the extent practicable, that victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons are housed in a manner appropriate to their status as crime victims, afforded proper medical care and other assistance, and protected while in federal custody, in accordance with their status as victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(2) Procedures to provide victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons with access to information about their rights and with translation services;
(3) Procedures for federal law enforcement officials to request that certain victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, who are aliens and are also potential witnesses, be permitted to remain in the United States to effectuate the prosecution of those responsible, and procedures to protect their safety, including taking measures to protect victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and their family members from intimidation, threats of reprisals, and reprisals from traffickers and their associates (these procedures should be appropriate to their status as victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons); and
(4) Training of appropriate DOJ and DOS personnel in identifying victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, in understanding the particular needs common to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, and in providing for the protection of such victims.
(b) The regulations in this subpart apply to all federal law enforcement personnel, immigration officials and DOS officials, insofar as their duties involve investigating or prosecuting traffickers in persons, or may involve identifying, encountering or detaining victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(c) The rights and protections made available to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons under section
107(c) supplement those rights and protections provided to victims and witnesses in federal victims' rights legislation as defined in this subpart. The intent of this subpart is to ensure that the protections available under the provisions of federal victims' rights legislation as well as the TVPA are fully provided to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, in keeping with their status as victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons. This subpart will ensure that these victims are identified as early as possible in the investigation and prosecution process, so that services and protections available to them under the laws of the United States are provided.
(d) The regulations under this subpart set forth the general procedures to ensure these rights are protected in cases involving victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons. All agencies, bureaus, boards, divisions, programs, and offices in the DOJ and the DOS with specific responsibilities under this subpart shall adopt such regulations and/or operating procedures as may be necessary to ensure compliance with section 107(c) and the requirements of this subpart.
§ 1100.29
The roles and responsibilities of federal law enforcement, immigration, and Department of State officials under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA).
(a)
Department of Justice officials.
The various agencies, bureaus, boards, divisions, programs, and offices of the DOJ have most of the responsibilities assigned by section 107(c). The goals of section 107(c) are to identify victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons as early as possible in the investigation and prosecution process, to ensure efforts are made to see that such victims are accorded the rights described in 42 U.S.C. 10606, and to provide the protections and services required under 42 U.S.C. 10607 and under the TVPA.
(b)
Department of State officials.
Department of State missions throughout the world are often the initial contact for aliens in foreign countries who wish to come to the United States. Appropriate DOS personnel should be trained in identifying victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons. Furthermore, considering the international nature of trafficking in persons, appropriate DOS personnel, upon encountering victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons in foreign countries, should consider referrals to local law enforcement or service providers in the host country, but only if the local host country conditions support such actions.
(c)
Federal law enforcement officials.
Federal law enforcement officials who, during the performance of their duties, encounter a person whom they believe may be a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons as defined by this subpart, are responsible for bringing such an individual to the attention of those federal law enforcement officials primarily responsible for enforcing trafficking laws, specifically INS or FBI. In addition, DOS's Diplomatic Security Service has investigative authority in visa and passport fraud cases that may involve trafficking in persons. Federal law enforcement officials also include federal law enforcement personnel working cooperatively with law enforcement officials who have primary investigative jurisdiction in such trafficking cases. Each federal agency having law enforcement responsibilities should ensure that its officers are trained in identifying victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, and are familiar with the rights, services, and protections such victims are to be accorded under the TVPA and 42 U.S.C. 10606 and 10607.
§ 1100.31
Procedures for protecting and providing services to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons in federal custody.
(a) While in federal custody, all victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons must be provided, to the extent practicable, the protections and services outlined in this section in accordance with their status as victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons. Under 42 U.S.C. 10607(a), each agency must designate officials who are responsible for identifying victims of crime and providing services to them. The designations appear in the
Attorney General Guidelines.
This responsibility also extends to those who are responsible for victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons while they are in federal custody.
(b) To the extent practicable and allowed by law, alternatives to formal detention of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons should be considered in every case. However, if detention is required, victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons in federal custody, to the extent practicable, shall not be detained in facilities inappropriate to their status as crime victims. The responsible official shall make all efforts, where appropriate and practicable, to house those victims separately from those areas in which criminals are detained. The responsible official must also provide protections and security to those victims as required by federal standards, policies, and procedures. Information on the federal prohibitions against intimidation and harassment, and the remedies available for such actions should routinely be made available to victims.
(c) Victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons in federal custody shall receive necessary medical care and other assistance. This care should include free optional testing for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases in cases involving sexual assault or trafficking into the sex industry, as well as a counseling session by a medically-trained professional on the accuracy of such tests and the risk of transmission of sexually transmitted diseases to the victim. Other forms of mental health counseling or social services also may be appropriate to address the trauma associated with trafficking in persons.
(d) As mandated by 42 U.S.C. 10607, federal officials are responsible for arranging for victims to receive reasonable protection from a suspected offender and persons acting in concert with or at the behest of the suspected offender. Federal law enforcement agencies also should protect victims of a severe form of trafficking in persons from harm and intimidation pursuant to section 6 of the Victim and Witness Protection Act of 1982 and 18 U.S.C. 1512 note. It may also be appropriate to discuss with the victims the available remedies described in 18 U.S.C. 1512 and 1513. Federal officials also should employ civil procedures for protecting victims and witnesses, including application for temporary restraining orders and protective orders, as set out in 18 U.S.C. 1514, if practicable. If the victim's safety is at risk or if there is danger of the victim's recapture by the trafficker, the responsible official should take the following steps under the TVPA:
(1) Use available practical and legal measures to protect the trafficked victim and family members from intimidation, harm, and threats of harm; and
(2) Ensure that the names and identifying information pertaining to trafficked victims and family members are not disclosed to the public.
§ 1100.33
Access to information and translation services for victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(a) All federal investigative, prosecutorial, and correctional agencies engaged in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of crime shall use their best efforts to see that victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons are accorded all rights under federal victims' rights legislation. In cases involving severe forms of trafficking in persons, federal officials should provide victims within the United States, as defined by this subpart, information about their rights and applicable services, including:
(1) Pro bono and low-cost legal services, including immigration services;
(2) Federal and state benefits and services (victims who are minors and adult victims who are certified by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) are eligible for assistance that is administered or funded by federal agencies to the same extent as refugees; others may be eligible for certain, more limited, benefits);
(3) Victim service organizations, including domestic violence and rape crisis centers;
(4) Protections available, especially against threats and intimidation, and the remedies available as appropriate for the particular individual's circumstances;
(5) Rights of individual privacy and confidentiality issues;
(6) Victim compensation and assistance programs;
(7) Immigration benefits or programs that may be relevant to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, including those available under the VTVPA;
(8) The right to restitution;
(9) The right to notification of case status; and
(10) The availability of medical services.
(b) The federal agencies as defined in paragraph (a) of this section must ensure reasonable access to translation services and/or oral interpreter services in the event the victim is not able to communicate in English.
§ 1100.35
Authority to permit continued presence in the United States for victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(a) Federal law enforcement officials who encounter alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons who are potential witnesses to that trafficking may request that the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) grant the continued presence of such aliens in the United States. All law enforcement requests for continued presence must be submitted to the INS, Headquarters Office of Field Operations, in accordance with INS procedures. Each federal law enforcement agency will designate a headquarters office to administer submissions and coordinate with the INS on all requests for continued presence. The designated headquarters office will be responsible for meeting all reporting requirements contained in INS procedures for the processing and administering of the requests for continued presence in the United States of eligible aliens.
(b) Upon receiving a request, the INS will determine the victim's immigration status. When applicable and appropriate, the INS may then use a variety of statutory and administrative mechanisms to ensure the alien's continued presence in the United States. The specific mechanism used will depend on the alien's current status under the immigration laws and other relevant facts. These mechanisms may include parole, voluntary departure, stay of final order, section 107(c)(3)-based deferred action, or any other authorized form of continued presence, including applicable nonimmigrant visas.
(1) The alien's continued presence in the United States under this subpart does not convey any immigration status or benefit apart from that already encompassed by the particular form of authorized continued presence granted. In most circumstances, victims granted continued presence will be eligible for temporary employment authorization.
(2) The continued presence granted through any of the mechanisms described in this paragraph (b) will contain the terms normally associated with the particular type of authorized continued presence granted, including, but not limited to, duration of benefit, terms and procedures for receiving an extension, travel limitations, and employment authorization unless expressly waived in an individual approval. Aliens granted deferred action based upon section 107(c)(3) are considered to be present in the United States pursuant to a period of stay authorized by the Attorney General for purposes of INA sections 212(a)(9)(B)(I) and (C).
(c)(1) In cases where it is determined that the granting to an alien of continued presence in the United States poses a threat to national security or to the safety and welfare of the public, the INS may require the requesting agency to meet special conditions or requirements prior to approval. The INS will promptly convey any such condition or requirement to the requesting agency in writing. Upon agreement by the requesting agency to comply with the conditions and accept the costs associated with the implementation of those conditions, the INS will grant the continued presence of the alien in the United States.
(2) Although the INS and the requesting law enforcement agency will make every effort to reach a satisfactory agreement for the granting of continued presence, the INS may deny a request for continued presence in the following instances:
(i) Failure, on the part of the requesting agency, to provide necessary documentation or to adhere to established INS procedures;
(ii) Refusal to agree or comply with conditions or requirements instituted
in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(iii) Failure, on the part of the requesting agency, to comply with past supervision or reporting requirements established as a condition of continued presence; or
(iv) When the INS determines that granting continued presence for the particular alien would create a significant risk to national security or public safety and that the risk cannot be eliminated or acceptably minimized by the establishment of agreeable conditions.
(3) In the case of a denial, the INS shall promptly notify the designated office within the requesting agency. The INS and the requesting agency will take all available steps to reach an acceptable resolution. In the event such resolution is not possible, the INS shall promptly forward the matter to the Deputy Attorney General, or his designee, for resolution.
(d) In addition to meeting any conditions placed upon the granting of continued presence in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the responsible official at the law enforcement agency requesting the victim's continued presence in the United States as described in paragraph (a) of this section shall arrange for reasonable protection to any alien allowed to remain in the United States by the INS. This protection shall be in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 10606 and shall include taking measures to protect trafficked persons and their family members from intimidation, threats of reprisals, and reprisals from traffickers and their associates in accordance with section 107(c)(3). Such protection shall take into account their status as victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
§ 1100.37
Requirements to train appropriate personnel in identifying and protecting victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(a) The TVPA requires that appropriate DOJ and DOS personnel be trained in identifying victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and providing for the protection of such victims. These federal personnel will be trained to recognize victims and provide services and protections, as appropriate, in accordance with the TVPA, 42 U.S.C. 10606 and 10607, and other applicable victim-assistance laws. Specifically, the training will include, as applicable:
(1) Procedures and techniques for identifying victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(2) Rights of crime victims, including confidentiality requirements;
(3) Description of the services available to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons at the investigation, prosecution, and, where applicable, correction stages of the law enforcement process;
(4) Referral services to be provided to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(5) Benefits and services available to alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons regardless of their immigration status;
(6) Particular needs of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(7) Procedures and techniques for dealing with specialized needs of victims who may face cultural, language, and/or other obstacles that impede their ability to request and obtain available services for themselves; and
(8) Protection obligations of responsible officials under federal law and policies, as these apply to victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(b) Each component of the DOJ and the DOS with program responsibility for victim witness services must provide initial training in the particular needs of victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, and appropriate federal agencies' responses to such victims; initial training of appropriate agency personnel should be conducted as soon as possible. Thereafter, training must be held on a recurring basis to ensure that victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons receive the rights, protections, and services accorded them under the TVPA and federal victims' rights laws, and the federal policies, procedures, and guidelines implementing the TVPA and other federal victims' rights laws.
PARTS 1101-1199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
28 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
28 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.26 Added; interim
50953
50.27 Added; interim
63202
50.28 Added
81410
58.8 Added
82913
68.2 Amended; interim
63206
68.3 (a) introductory text and (c) revised; interim
63207
68.8 (b) and (c)(2) revised; interim
63207
68.15 Amended; interim
63207
68.26 Revised; interim
63207
68.29 Amended; interim
63208
68.30 (a) and (c) amended; (d) and (e) added; interim
63208
68.33 (c)(3)(iv) and (f) amended; interim
63208
68.55 (b), (1), (3), and (d)(2) amended; interim
63208
68.57 Amended; interim
63208
85.5 Revised
37005
Chapter V
540 Authority citation revised
37336
540.106 Added
37336
541.3 Table 1 amended
66229
Chapter VIII
813 Added
29865
2021
28 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.26 Removed; interim
37676
50.27 Removed; interim
37676
72 Revised
69855
85.5 Revised
70742
2022
28 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.10 Revised
66240
50.28 Removed; interim
27938
68.30 CFR correction: (e) amended
38657
85.5 Revised
27515
201 Added
62305
Chapter V
523 Authority citation revised
2717
523.20 Revised
7943
523.40—523.44 (Subpart E) Added
2717
541.3 (b) Table 1 amended
2719
541.7 (f) revised
2719
Chapter VIII
814 Added
41586
2023
28 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
68 Authority citation revised
70590
68.2 Amended; interim
70590
68.52 (g) revised; interim
70591
68.55 Heading and (a) revised; (c) introductory text amended; interim
70591
68.56 Amended; interim
70591
68.57 Revised; interim
7059
79 Notification
3918
85.5 Revised
5778
90 Authority citation revised
21466
90.30—90.43 (Subpart C) Added; interim
21466
94 Authority citation revised
3656
94.11 (a) amended; interim
3656
94.12 (u) introductory text amended; interim
3656
94.21 (a) amended; interim
3656
94.101 (a) and (b) amended; interim
3656
94.102 Amended; interim
3656
94.103 (b) introductory text and (g) amended; interim
3656
94.104 (b) introductory text and (c) amended; interim
3656
94.106 (a) amended; interim
3657
94.107 (a) amended; interim
3657
94.108 (b)(2) amended; interim
3657
94.111 Amended; interim
3657
94.112 (b) introductory text amended; interim
3657
94.113 (b) amended; interim
3657
94.114 (a) and (b) amended; interim
3657
Chapter V
543.31 (c) revised; interim
76657
543.31 Correction: Heading, (a) heading, and (b) heading revised
87903
543.32 (a) through (d) and (f) revised; interim
76658
543.32 Correction: (e) heading, (g), and (h) revised; (i) removed
87903
2024
28 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.28 Regulation at 87 FR 27938 confirmed
97538
81 Heading revised
92802
81.1—81.5 (Subpart A) Designated as Subpart A; heading added
92802
81.51—81.59 (Subpart C) Added
92802
85.5 Revised
9766
106 Added
28636
106 Regulation at 89 FR 28636 comment period extended
83631
106.1 Correction: (1) and (2) redesignated as (a) and (b); interim
36671
Chapter V
543.13 (c) revised; (e) amended; interim
8332
543.13 Regulation at 89 FR 8332 confirmed
101884
543.32 (h) revised
101882
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
28 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.10 Revised
18786
50.26 Regulation at 86 FR 37676 confirmed
6806
50.27 Regulation at 86 FR 37676 confirmed
6806
202 Added
1706
202.401 Correction: (a) amended
16466
○
