(3) OPM may approve such comprehensive medical plans as, in the judgment of OPM, may be in the best interest of enrollees in the Program. In addition to specific requirements set forth in 5 U.S.C. chapter 89, in chapter 1 and other relevant portions of title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and in other sections of this part, to be approved, an applicant plan must actually be delivering medical care at the time of application; must be in compliance with applicable State licensing and operating requirements; must not be a Federal, State, local, or territorial governmental entity; and must not be debarred, suspended, or ineligible to participate in Government contracting or subcontracting for any reason, including fraudulent health care practices in other Federal health care programs.
(4) Applications must identify those individuals who have the legal authority and responsibility to enter into and guarantee contracts. The applications will be reviewed for evidence of substantial compliance with the following standards:
(i)
Health plan management:
Stable management with experience pertinent to the prepaid health care provider industry; sufficient operating experience to enable OPM to realistically evaluate the plan's past and expected future performance;
(ii)
Marketing:
A rate of enrollment that ensures equalization of income and expenses within projected timeframes and sufficient subscriber income to operate within budget thereafter; enrollment dispersed among
groups such that there is not a concentration of enrollment with one or a few groups so that the loss of one or more contracts by the carrier would not jeopardize its financial viability; feasible projections of future enrollment and employer distribution, as well as the potential enrollment area for marketing purposes;
(iii)
Health care delivery system:
A health care delivery system providing reasonable access to and choice of quality primary and specialty medical care throughout the service area; specifically, in the individual practice setting, contractual arrangements for the services of a significant number of primary care and specialty physicians in the service area; and in the group practice setting, compliance with 5 U.S.C. 8903(4)(A) preferably demonstrated by full-time providers specializing in internal medicine, family practice, pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology; and
(iv)
Financial condition:
Establishment of firm budget projections and demonstrated success in meeting or exceeding those projections on a regular basis; evidence of the ability to sustain operation in the future and to meet obligations under the contract OPM might enter into with the plan; clearly specified committed funding to see the plan to an expected break-even point including a sufficient amount for unexpected contingencies; adequate current and projected funding, such as estimated premium income or commitment from a financially sound and acceptable parent organization or a mature stable entity outside the plan; insolvency protection, such as stop-loss reinsurance services and agreements with all plan providers that they will hold members harmless if, for any reason, the plan is unable to pay its providers.
(5) A comprehensive medical plan that has been certified either as a qualified Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) or as a qualified Competitive Medical Plan by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) at the time of application to OPM, and whose qualification status is not under investigation by HHS, will need to submit only an abbreviated application to OPM. The extent of the data and documentation to be submitted by a plan so qualified by HHS, as well as by a non-qualified plan, for a particular review cycle may be obtained by writing directly to the Office of Insurance Programs, Retirement and Insurance Service, Office of Personnel Management, Washington, DC 20415.
(b)
Participating plans.
Changes in rates and benefits for approved health benefits plans shall be considered at the discretion of the Director of OPM. If the Director of OPM determines that it is beneficial to enrollees and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program to invite health plan benefit and/or rate changes for a given contract period, a “call letter” shall be issued to the carrier approximately 9 months prior to the expiration of the current contract period. Any proposal for change shall be in writing, specifically describe the change proposed, and be signed by an authorized official of the carrier. OPM will review any requested proposal for change and will notify the carrier of its decision to accept or reject the change. OPM may make a counter proposal or at any time propose changes on its own motion. Benefits changes and rate proposals, when requested by OPM, shall be submitted not less than 7 months before the expiration of the then current contract period, unless the Director of OPM determines that a later date is acceptable. The negotiation period shall begin approximately 7 months before the expiration of the current contract period, and OPM shall seek to complete all benefit and rate negotiations no later than 4 months preceding the contract period to which they will apply. If OPM and the carrier do not reach agreement by this date, either party may give written notice of nonrenewal in accordance with § 890.205 of this part.
[37 FR 20668, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended at 41 FR 40090, Sept. 17, 1976; 43 FR 52461, Nov. 13, 1978; 48 FR 16232, Apr. 15, 1983; 50 FR 8315, Feb. 28, 1985; 52 FR 23934, June 26, 1987; 54 FR 52337, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 57 FR 19374, May 6, 1992; 59 FR 62284, Dec. 5, 1994; 60 FR 62988, Dec. 8, 1995]
§ 890.204
Withdrawal of approval of health benefits plans or carriers.
(a) The Director may withdraw approval of a health benefits plan or carrier if the standards at § 890.201 of this part and 48 CFR subpart 1609.70 are not met. Such action carries with it the right to a hearing as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Before withdrawing approval, the Director or his or her representative shall notify the carrier of the plan, by certified mail, that OPM intends to withdraw approval of the health benefits plan and/or carrier. The notice shall set forth the reasons why approval is to be withdrawn. The carrier is entitled to reply in writing within 15 calendar days after its receipt of the notice, stating the reasons why approval should not be withdrawn.
(2) On receipt of the reply, or in the absence of a timely reply, the Director or representative shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing. The carrier shall be notified by certified mail at least 15 calendar days in advance of the hearing. The hearing officer shall be the Director, or a representative designated by the Director, who shall not otherwise have been a party to the initial administrative decision to issue a letter of intent to withdraw the plan's or carrier's approval. The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing unless it is waived in writing by the carrier. The carrier is entitled to appear by representative and present oral or documentary evidence, including rebuttal evidence, in opposition to the proposed action.
(i) A transcribed record shall be kept of the hearing and shall be the exclusive record of the proceeding.
(ii) After the hearing is held, or after OPM's receipt of the carrier's written waiver of the hearing, the Director shall make a decision on the record, taking into consideration any recommendation submitted by the hearing officer, and send it to the carrier by certified mail. A decision of the Director shall be considered a final decision for the purposes of this section. The Director, or his or her representative, may set a future effective date for withdrawal of approval.
(3) The Director, or his or her representative, may give written notice of non-renewal of the contract of a carrier whose plan does not meet the minimum enrollee requirement in § 890.201(a)(11). However, the Director may defer withdrawing approval of a plan not meeting the requirement in § 890.201(a)(11) of this part when, in the judgment of OPM, the carrier shows good cause. The Director or representative may authorize a plan with fewer than 300 employees or annuitants to remain in the FEHB Program when he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that it is in the best interest of the Program (e.g., when the plan is the only plan available to enrollees in a rural area).
(b) During a current contract term, the Director, in his or her discretion, may reinstate approval of a plan or carrier under this section on a finding that the reasons for withdrawing approval no longer exist.
[55 FR 9109, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 14324, Apr. 20, 1992]
§ 890.205
Nonrenewal of contracts of health benefits plans.
(a) Either OPM or the carrier may terminate a contract by giving a written notice of nonrenewal which includes an indication of the reason for the intended action.
(b) Where termination by notice of intent not to renew is made by OPM, the carrier contesting that notice may request that OPM review the proposed decision. Such review shall be conducted by the Director or a representative designated by the Director, who shall not otherwise have been a party to the initial decision to issue a notice of intent not to renew. A request for such review, which may include a request that a representative of the carrier appear personally before OPM, shall be in writing. That request must be received within 10 calendar days of the carrier's receipt of the notice of intent not to renew. Such request shall include a detailed statement as to why the carrier disagrees with OPM's notice of nonrenewal and shall be accompanied by appropriate supporting documentation. Where a carrier has requested review under this section, the final decision by OPM not to renew a health benefits contract shall be communicated to the carrier in writing not
more than 30 days after OPM's receipt of the carrier's request for review, unless a later date is mutually agreed upon.
(c) In the absence of a timely request for review as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, OPM's notice of intent not to renew will become final without further notification.
[57 FR 19374, May 6, 1992]

# Subpart C—Enrollment
§ 890.301
Opportunities for employees to enroll or change enrollment; effective dates.
(a)
Initial opportunity to enroll.
An employee who becomes eligible may elect to enroll or not to enroll within 60 days after becoming eligible.
(b)
Effective date—generally.
Except as otherwise provided, an enrollment or change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to enroll or change the enrollment and that follows a pay period during any part of which the employee is in pay status.
(c)
Belated enrollment.
When an employing office determines that an employee was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to enroll or change the enrollment within the time limits prescribed by this section, the employee may enroll or change the enrollment within 60 days after the employing office advises the employee of its determination.
(d)
Enrollment by proxy.
Subject to the discretion of the employing office, an employee's representative, having written authorization to do so, may enroll or change the enrollment for the employee.
(e)
Decreasing enrollment type.
(1) Subject to two exceptions, an employee may decrease enrollment type at any time.
Exceptions:
(i) An employee participating in health insurance premium conversion may decrease enrollment type during an open season or because of and consistent with a qualifying life event as defined in part 892 of this chapter.
(ii) An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in paragraph (g)(3) of this section may not decrease enrollment type in a way that eliminates coverage of a child identified in the order as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and the employee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee provides documentation to the agency that he or she has other coverage for the child(ren). The employee may not elect self only as long as he or she has one child identified as covered, but may elect self plus one.
(2) A decrease in enrollment type takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment, except that at the request of the enrollee and upon a showing satisfactory to the employing office that there was no family member eligible for coverage under the self plus one or self and family enrollment, or only one family member eligible for coverage under the self and family enrollment, as appropriate, the employing office may make the change effective on the first day of the pay period following the one in which there was, in the case of a self plus one enrollment, no family member or, in the case of a self and family enrollment, only one or no family member.
(f)
Open season.
(1) An open season will be held each year from the Monday of the second full workweek in November through the Monday of the second full workweek in December.
(2) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management may modify the dates specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section or hold additional open seasons.
(3) With one exception, during an open season, an eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, may change from one plan or option to another, or may make any combination of these changes.
Exception:
An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in paragraph (g)(3) of this section may not cancel his or her enrollment, decrease enrollment type, or change to a comprehensive medical plan that does not serve the area where his or her child or
children live as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect, and the employee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee provides documentation to the agency that he or she has other coverage for the child(ren). The employee may not elect self only as long as he or she has one child identified as covered, but may elect self plus one.
(4)(i) An open season new enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins in the next following year and which follows a pay period during any part of which the employee is in a pay status.
(ii) An open season change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period which begins in January of the next following year.
(5) When a belated open season enrollment or change of enrollment is accepted by the employing office under paragraph (c) of this section, it takes effect as required by paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(g)
Change in family status.
(1) An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee's family status changes, including a change in marital status or any other change in family status. The employee must enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of the change in family status, and ending 60 days after the date of the change in family status.
(2) An enrollment or change of enrollment made in conjunction with the birth of a child, or the addition of a child as a new family member in some other manner, takes effect on the first day of the pay period in which the child is born or becomes an eligible family member.
(3)(i) If an employing office receives a court or administrative order on or after October 30, 2000, requiring an employee to provide health benefits for his or her child or children, the employing office will determine if the employee has a self plus one or self and family enrollment, as appropriate, in a health benefits plan that provides full benefits in the area where the child or children live. If the employee does not have the required enrollment, the agency must notify him or her that it has received the court or administrative order and give the employee until the end of the following pay period to change his or her enrollment or provide documentation to the employing office that he or she has other coverage for the child or children. If the employee does not comply within these time frames, the employing office must enroll the employee involuntarily as stated in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If the employee is not enrolled or does not enroll, the agency must enroll him or her for self plus one or self and family coverage, as appropriate, in the option that provides the lower level of coverage in the Service Benefit Plan. If the employee is enrolled but does not increase the enrollment type in a way that is sufficient to cover the child or children, the employing office must change the enrollment to self plus one or self and family, as appropriate, in the same option and plan, as long as the plan provides full benefits in the area where the child or children live. If the employee is enrolled in a comprehensive medical plan that does not serve the area in which the child or children live, the employing office must change the enrollment to self plus one or self and family, as appropriate, in the option that provides the lower level of coverage in the Service Benefit Plan.
(4) Subject to two exceptions, the effective date of an involuntary enrollment under paragraph (g)(3) of this section is the 1st day of the pay period that begins after the date the employing office completes the enrollment request.
Exceptions:
(i) If the court or administrative order requires an earlier effective date, the effective date will be the 1st day of the pay period that includes that date. Effective dates may not be retroactive to a date more than 2 years earlier, or prior to October 30, 2000.
(ii) If after an involuntary enrollment becomes effective and the employing office finds that circumstances beyond the employee's control prevented him or her from enrolling or changing the enrollment within the
time limits in this section, the employee may change the enrollment prospectively within 60 days after the employing office advises the employee of its finding.
(h)
Change in employment status.
An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee's employment status changes. Except as otherwise provided, an employee must enroll or change the enrollment within 60 days after the change in employment status. Employment status changes include, but are not limited to—
(1) A return to pay status following loss of coverage under either—
(i) Section 890.304(a)(1)(v) due to the expiration of 365 days in leave without pay (LWOP) status, or
(ii) Section 890.502(b)(5) due to the termination of coverage during LWOP status.
(2) Reemployment after a break in service of more than 3 days.
(3) Restoration to a civilian position after serving in the uniformed services under conditions that entitle him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.
(4)(i) A change from a temporary appointment in which the employee is eligible to enroll under 5 U.S.C. 8906a, which requires payment of the full premium with no Government contribution, to an appointment that entitles the employee to receive the Government contribution.
(ii) A change in entitlement to Government contribution as a result of becoming eligible for coverage under § 890.102(j).
(5) Separation from Federal employment when the employee or the employee's spouse is pregnant and the employee supplies medical documentation of the pregnancy. An employee who enrolls or changes the enrollment under this paragraph (h)(5) must do so during his or her final pay period. The effective date of an enrollment or a change of enrollment under this paragraph (h)(5) is the first day of the pay period which the employing office receives an appropriate request to enroll or change the enrollment.
(6) A transfer from a post of duty within a State of the United States or the District of Columbia to a post of duty outside a State of the United States or the District of Columbia, or the reverse. An employee who enrolls or changes the enrollment under this paragraph (h)(6) must do so within the period beginning 31 days before leaving the old post of duty and ending 60 days after arriving at the new post of duty.
(7) A change, without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, to part-time career employment as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3401(2) and 5 CFR part 340, subpart B, or a change from such part-time career employment to full-time employment that entitles the employee to the full Government contribution.
(i)
Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.
An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee or an eligible family member of the employee loses coverage under this part or another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, an employee must enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage, and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage. Losses of coverage include, but are not limited to—
(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or a change to self plus one or to self only, of the covering enrollment.
(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program.
(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan.
(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan in whole or in part. For an employee who loses coverage under this paragraph (i)(4):
(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the employee must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at
a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the employee to change the enrollment.
(ii) If the whole plan is discontinued, an employee who does not change the enrollment within the time set in (i)(4)(i) of this section will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in paragraph (n) of this section;
(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, an employee who does not change the enrollment will be enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).
(iv) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, an employee must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If an employee does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the employee will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in paragraph (n) of this section. The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;
(v) An employee who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in paragraph (n) of this section, may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy.
(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan because an employee moves out of the commuting area to accept another position and the employee's non-federally employed spouse terminates employment to accompany the employee. An employee may enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date the employee leaves employment in the old commuting area and ending 180 days after entry on duty at place of employment in the new commuting area.
(7) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.
(j)
Move from comprehensive medical plan's area.
An employee in a comprehensive medical plan who moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves or becomes employed further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the move or change of place of employment. Similarly, an employee whose covered family member moves outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the family member's move. The change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period that begins after the employing office receives an appropriate request.
(k)
On becoming eligible for Medicare.
An employee may change the enrollment from one plan or option to another at any time beginning on the 30th day before becoming eligible for coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). A change of enrollment based on becoming eligible for Medicare may be made only once.
(l)
Salary of temporary employee insufficient to pay withholdings.
If the salary of a temporary employee eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a is not sufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan in which the employee is enrolled, the employing office shall notify the employee of the plans available at a cost that does not exceed the employee's salary. The employee may enroll in another plan whose cost is no greater than his or her salary within 60 days after receiving such notification from the employing office. The change of enrollment takes effect immediately upon termination of the prior enrollment.
(m)
An employee or eligible family member becomes eligible for premium assistance under Medicaid or a State Children's
Health Insurance Program (CHIP).
An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee or an eligible family member of the employee becomes eligible for premium assistance under a Medicaid plan or CHIP. An employee must enroll or change his or her enrollment within 60 days after the date the employee or family member is determined to be eligible for assistance.
(n)
Determination of lowest-cost nationwide plan option.
OPM will annually determine the lowest-cost nationwide plan option calculated based on the enrollee share of the cost of a self only enrollment. The plan option identified may not be a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) or an option from a health benefits plan that charges an association or membership fee. OPM reserves the right to designate an alternate plan for automatic enrollments if OPM determines circumstances dictate this.
(o)
Pay status during a lapse in appropriations.
An employee, who is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay as a result of a lapse in appropriations, is deemed to be in pay status, during the lapse, for purposes of this section.
(p)
Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants eligible to enroll only in PSHB plans.
After December 31, 2024, a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant is not eligible to be enrolled in an FEHB plan but may only enroll in a PSHB plan in accordance with subpart P of this part.
[62 FR 38435, July 18, 1997; 62 FR 49557, Sept. 22, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000; 68 FR 56524, Oct. 1, 2003; 69 FR 56928, Sept. 23, 2004; 72 FR 1912, Jan. 17, 2007; 75 FR 76616, Dec. 9, 2010; 79 FR 62329, Oct. 17, 2014; 80 FR 55734, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 65882, Oct. 28, 2015; 86 FR 17274, Apr. 2, 2021; 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]
§ 890.302
Coverage of family members.
(a)(1)
Enrollment.
An enrollment for self plus one includes the enrollee and one eligible family member. An enrollment for self and family includes all family members who are eligible to be covered by the enrollment except as provided in § 890.308(h). Proof of family member eligibility may be required, and must be provided upon request, to the carrier, the employing office, or OPM. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no employee, former employee, annuitant, child, or former spouse may enroll or be covered as a family member if they are already covered under another person's self plus one or self and family enrollment.
(2)
Dual enrollment.
—(i)
Prohibition on dual enrollment.
A dual enrollment exists when an individual is covered under more than one enrollment under this part. Dual enrollments are prohibited except when an eligible individual would otherwise not have access to coverage and the dual enrollment has been authorized by the employing office.
(ii)
Exception.
An individual described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section may enroll if he or she or his or her eligible family members would otherwise not have access to coverage, in which case the individual may enroll in his or her own right for self only, self plus one, or self and family coverage, as appropriate. However, an eligible individual is entitled to receive benefits under only one enrollment regardless of whether he or she qualifies as a family member under a spouse's or parent's enrollment. To ensure that no person receives benefits under more than one enrollment, each enrollee must promptly notify the insurance carrier as to which person(s) will be covered under his or her enrollment. These individuals are not covered under the other enrollment. Examples include but are not limited to:
(A) To protect the interests of married or legally separated Federal employees, annuitants, and their children, an employee or annuitant may enroll in his or her own right in a self only, self plus one, or self and family enrollment, as appropriate, even though his or her spouse also has a self plus one or self and family enrollment if the employee, annuitant, or his or her children live apart from the spouse and would otherwise not have access to coverage due to a service area restriction and the spouse refuses to change health plans.
(B) When an employee who is under age 26 and covered under a parent's self plus one or self and family enrollment acquires an eligible family member, the employee may elect to enroll for self plus one or self and family coverage.
(iii) Children are entitled to receive benefits under only one enrollment regardless of whether the children qualify as family members under the enrollment of both parents or of a parent and a stepparent and regardless of whether the parents are married, unmarried, divorced, or legally separated. To ensure that no person receives benefits under more than one enrollment, each enrollee must promptly notify the insurance carrier as to which family members will be covered under his or her enrollment. These individuals are not covered under the other enrollment.
(b)(1) A child under the age of 26, or a child of any age who is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability which existed before age 26, is considered to be a family member eligible to be covered by the enrollment of an enrolled employee or annuitant or a former employee or child enrolled under § 890.1103 of this part if he or she is—
(i) A child born within marriage;
(ii) A recognized natural child;
(iii) An adopted child;
(iv) A stepchild; or
(v) A foster child.
(2) For purposes of this part, the term “stepchild” refers to the child of an enrollee's spouse and shall continue to refer to such child after the enrollee's divorce from the spouse or death of the spouse, so long as the child continues to live with the enrollee in a regular parent-child relationship.
(c)
Child incapable of self-support.
When an individual's enrollment for self plus one or self and family includes a child who has become 26 years of age and is incapable of self-support, the employing office must require such enrollee to submit a physician's certificate verifying the child's disability. The certificate must—
(1) State that the child is incapable of self-support because of a physical or mental disability that existed before the child became 26 years of age and that can be expected to continue for more than 1 year;
(2) Include a statement of the name of the child, the nature of the disability, the period of time it has existed, and its probable future course and duration; and,
(3) Be signed by the physician and show the physician's office address. The employing office must require the enrollee to submit the certificate on or before the date the child becomes 26 years of age. However, the employing office may accept otherwise satisfactory evidence of incapacity that is not timely filed.
(d)
Renewal of certificates of incapacity.
The employing office must require an enrollee who has submitted a certificate of incapacity to renew that certificate on the expiration of the minimum period of disability certified.
(e)
Determination of incapacity.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the employing office shall make determinations of incapacity.
(2) Either the employing office or the carrier may make a determination of incapacity if a medical condition, as specified by OPM, exists that would cause a child to be incapable of self-support during adulthood.
(f)
Switching a covered family member.
(1) An enrollee with a self plus one enrollment may switch his or her covered family member during the annual Open Season, upon a change in family status, upon a change in coverage, or upon a change in eligibility, so long as switching a covered family member is consistent with the event that has taken place.
(2) Switching a covered family member under a self plus one enrollment will be effective on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to switch the covered family member.
[78 FR 64876, Oct. 30, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 55735, Sept. 17, 2015; 81 FR 86906, Dec. 2, 2016; 83 FR 3061, Jan. 23, 2018; 83 FR 32192, July 12, 2018; 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]
§ 890.303
Continuation of enrollment.
(a)
On transfer or retirement.
(1) Except as otherwise provided by this part, the enrollment of an employee or annuitant eligible to continue enrollment
continues without change when he or she moves from one employing office to another, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not.
(2) In order for an employee to continue an enrollment as an annuitant, he or she must meet the participation requirements set forth at 8905(b) of title 5, United States Code, for continuing an enrollment as an annuitant as of the commencing date of his or her annuity or monthly compensation.
(3) For the purpose of this part, an employee is considered to have enrolled at his or her first opportunity if the employee enrolled during the first of the periods set forth in § 890.301 in which he or she was eligible to enroll or was covered at that time by the enrollment of another employee or annuitant, or whose enrollment was effective not later than December 31, 1964.
(4) Enrollment or eligibility for enrollment under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is not an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part is not considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements of § 8905(b) of title 5, U.S. Code. Coverage under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part may be considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements.
(b)
Change of enrolled employees to certain excluded positions.
Employees and annuitants enrolled under this part who move, without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, to an employment in which they are excluded by § 890.102(c), continue to be enrolled unless excluded by paragraphs (c)(4), (5), (6), (7), or (9) of § 890.102.
(c)
On death.
The enrollment of a deceased employee or annuitant who is enrolled for self plus one or self and family (as opposed to self only) is transferred automatically to his or her eligible survivor annuitant(s) covered by the enrollment, as applicable. For self and family, the enrollment is considered to be that of:
(1) The survivor annuitant from whose annuity all or the greatest portion of the withholding for health benefits is made; or
(2) The surviving spouse entitled to a basic employee death benefit. The enrollment covers members of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant. In those instances in which the annuity is split among surviving family members, multiple enrollments are allowed. A remarried spouse is not a member of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant unless annuity under section 8341 or 8442 of title 5, United States Code, continues after remarriage.
(d)(1)
Survivor annuitants.
If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his own service, he is entitled to reinstatement of his employee-acquired enrollment on application to his retirement office. Reinstatement is effective immediately after termination of his employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant, the amounts necessary to pay his share of the cost of the enrollment.
(2)
Employee becomes a survivor annuitant.
(i) If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his or her eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his or her own service, the employee is entitled to reinstatement of the enrollment as a survivor annuitant on application to the retirement office. Reinstatement as a survivor annuitant is effective on the day after the termination date of the employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise, reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of
the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant the amounts necessary to pay the health benefits premium.
(ii) If the surviving spouse of a deceased employee or annuitant is enrolled as an employee with a self plus one or self and family enrollment (or, if both the decedent and the surviving spouse were enrolled in a self only or self plus one enrollment) at the time the surviving spouse becomes a survivor annuitant and the surviving spouse is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment as a retiree, the surviving spouse is entitled to enroll as a survivor annuitant. The change from coverage as an employee to coverage as a survivor annuitant must be made within 30 days of separation from service.
(iii) Except for an employee who meets the definition of former spouse under 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) based on an individual's deferred annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f), the employee survivor of an annuitant receiving deferred retirement benefits is not eligible for FEHB Program enrollment as a survivor annuitant and therefore may not enroll as a survivor annuitant based on coverage obtained as an employee.
(3)
Insurable interest survivor annuity.
A current spouse who is an insurable interest beneficiary under § 831.606(b) or § 842.605(b) of this title is eligible to continue health benefits enrollment as an insurable interest survivor annuitant so long as he or she was covered as a family member at the time of the annuitant's death. This entitlement applies even if the spouse is eligible for continued enrollment as a survivor annuitant under another section of 5 CFR parts 831 or 843. To prevent dual coverage, the spouse must be covered under only one health benefits enrollment under this part.
(e)
In nonpay status.
(1) Except as otherwise provided by law, the enrollment of an employee continues while he/she is in nonpay status for up to 365 days. The 365 days' nonpay status may be continuous or broken by periods of less than 4 consecutive months in pay status. If an employee has at least 4 consecutive months in pay status after a period of nonpay status he/she is entitled to begin the 365 days' continuation of enrollment anew. For the purposes of this paragraph, 4 consecutive months in pay status means any 4-month period during which the employee is in pay status for at least part of each pay period.
(2) However, in the case of an employee who is employed under an OPM approved career-related work-study program under Schedule D of at least one year's duration and who is expected to be in a pay status during not less than one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the work-study program, his/her enrollment continues while he/she is in nonpay status so long as he/she is participating in the work-study program.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Former spouse entitled to coverage as employee or member of family.
An individual entitled to health benefits as a former spouse who also has or becomes entitled to health benefits coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member under another enrollment under this part may defer or suspend coverage as a former spouse and continue his or her coverage as an employee or family member. The former spouse must have established entitlement to the health benefits coverage under § 890.803 of this part and filed all required documents with the employing office responsible for maintaining the former spouse enrollment within the time limits specified in § 890.805 of this part. The employing office shall note in the former spouse's file that the former spouse health benefits enrollment is being deferred or suspended until coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member ends. Upon loss of coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member, the individual is entitled to enroll or resume the enrollment as a former spouse, provided he or she remains eligible as such. A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part for a reason other than cancellation must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(2). A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment
under this part as a result of cancellation of the covering enrollment must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(4).
(h)
Temporary continuation of coverage.
Certain former employees who lose coverage because of a separation from Federal service, certain children who lose coverage because they cease to meet the requirements for coverage as children, and certain former spouses who lose coverage because their marriage to the enrollee ends and who are not eligible for coverage under subpart H of this part may elect temporary continuation of coverage under the provisions of subpart K of this part.
(i)
Service in the uniformed services.
(1) The enrollment of an individual who separates, enters military furlough, or is placed in nonpay status to serve in the uniformed services under conditions that entitle him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the individual continues to be entitled to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority. As provided for by 5 U.S.C. 8905(a), the continuation of enrollment for up to 24 months applies to employees called or ordered to active duty in support of a contingency operation on or after September 14, 2001. The enrollment of an employee who met the requirements of chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, on or after December 10, 2004, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.
(2) An employee in nonpay status is entitled to continued coverage under paragraph (e) of this section if the employee's entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends before the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status.
(3) If the enrollment of an employee had terminated due to the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status or because of the employee's separation from service, it may be reinstated for the remainder of the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.
(j)
On transfer to or from Postal Service.
The eligibility of a Postal Service employee to continue enrollment under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 continues without change when they move from the Postal Service to another employing office, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not. In such a circumstance they may no longer enroll in a PSHB plan under subpart P of this part, and they may only enroll in an FEHB plan. The eligibility of an employee or annuitant to continue enrollment under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 continues without change when they move from another employing office to the Postal Service, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not; however, they may no longer enroll in an FEHB plan, and they may only enroll in a PSHB plan under subpart P.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 890.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 890.304
Termination of enrollment.
(a)
Employees.
(1) An employee's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the earliest of the following dates:
(i) The last day of the pay period in which he/she is separated from the service other than by retirement under conditions entitling him/her to continue his/her enrollment.
(ii) The last day of the pay period in which he or she separates after meeting the requirements for an immediate annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of this chapter, but postpones receipt of annuity as provided by § 842.204(c).
(iii) The last day of the pay period in which his or her employment status or the eligibility of his or her position changes so that he or she is excluded from enrollment.
(iv) The last day of the pay period in which he dies, unless he leaves a member of the family entitled to continue enrollment as a survivor annuitant.
(v) The last day of the pay period which includes the day on which the continuation of enrollment under § 890.303(e) expires, or, if he/she is not entitled to any further continuation because he/she has not had 4 consecutive months of pay status since exhausting his/her 365 days' continuation of coverage in nonpay status, the last day of his/her last pay period in pay status.
(vi) The day he or she is separated, furloughed, or placed on leave of absence to serve in the uniformed services under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, provided the employee elects in writing to have the enrollment so terminated.
(vii) For an employee who separates to serve in the uniformed services under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, the date that is 24 months after the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, or the date entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends, whichever is earlier, unless the enrollment is terminated under paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.
(viii) For an employee who is furloughed or placed on leave of absence under conditions entitling him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, the date that is 24 months after the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty to serve in the uniformed services, or the date entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends, whichever is earlier, but not earlier than the date the enrollment would otherwise terminate under paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.
(2) If the pay of a temporary employee eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan in which the employee is enrolled, and the employee does not, or cannot, elect a plan under § 890.301(l) at a cost to him or her not in excess of the pay, the employing office must terminate the employee's enrollment effective as of the end of the last period for which withholding was made. Each temporary employee whose enrollment is so terminated is entitled to a 31-day extension of coverage for conversion.
(b)
Annuitants.
(1) If the annuity of an annuitant is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan in which the annuitant is enrolled, the annuitant may elect one of the two opportunities offered under § 890.306(q) of this part (electing a plan with a withholding not in excess of the annuity; or, paying premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.502(f) of this part). The retirement system will send two notices to the annuitant, including one by certified mail return receipt requested. Continuation of coverage rests upon electing direct payment or new coverage within 15 days (45 days for annuitants residing overseas) after receipt of the final notice. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the enrollment of an individual who fails to make an election within the specified time frame will be terminated. An annuitant whose enrollment is terminated because of failure to make an election may not reenroll or reinstate coverage, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each annuitant whose enrollment is so terminated is entitled to a 31-day extension of coverage for conversion.
(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making an election within the time limit after receipt of the final notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the retirement system. The retirement system will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, the individual's coverage
may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination or prospectively. If the determination is negative, the individual may request reconsideration of the decision from OPM.
(3) If the annuitant does not make an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, the annuitant is deemed to have elected enrollment in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the standard option.
(4) An annuitant's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which he dies, unless he leaves a member of the family entitled to continue enrollment as a survivor annuitant, or, if his enrollment is not terminated by death, at midnight of the earliest of the following dates:
(i) The last day of the last pay period for which he is entitled to annuity, unless he is eligible for continued enrollment as an employee in which case his enrollment continues without change.
(ii) The last day of the pay period in which his title to compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, terminates, or in which he is held by the Secretary of Labor to be able to return to duty, unless he is eligible for continued enrollment as an employee or as an annuitant under a retirement system for civilian employees in which case his enrollment continues without change.
(iii) The day he enters on active duty in a uniformed service for the purpose of performing duty not limited to 30 days or less, provided the annuitant elects, in writing, to terminate the enrollment.
(iv) The last day of the month preceding the month in which a survivor annuitant in receipt of basic employee death benefits under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) remarries before attaining age 55.
(c)
Coverage of family members.
The coverage of a family member of an enrollee terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the earlier of the following dates:
(1) The day on which he or she ceases to be a family member;
(2) The day the enrollee ceases to be enrolled, unless the family member is entitled, as a survivor annuitant, to continued enrollment, or is entitled to continued coverage under the enrollment of another.
(d)
Cancellation or suspension.
(1)(i) An employee who participates in health insurance premium conversion as provided in part 892 of this chapter may cancel his or her enrollment only during an open season or because of and consistent with a qualifying life event defined in § 892.101 of this chapter.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(iii) of this section, an enrollee who does not participate in premium conversion may cancel his or her enrollment at any time by filing an appropriate request with the employing office. The cancellation is effective at the end of the last day of the pay period in which the employing office receives the appropriate request canceling the enrollment.
(iii) An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3), or an annuitant who was subject to such a court or administrative order at the time of his or her retirement, may not cancel or suspend his or her enrollment as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and the enrollee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee or annuitant provides documentation to the agency that he or she has other coverage for the child or children.
(2) An annuitant or survivor annuitant may suspend enrollment in FEHB for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare-sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including coverage provided by the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life instead of FEHB coverage. To suspend FEHB coverage, documentation of eligibility for coverage under the non-FEHB program must be submitted to the retirement
system. If the documentation is received within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 31 days after the effective date of the enrollment in the Medicare-sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar program, or within 31 days before or after the day designated by the annuitant or survivor annuitant as the day he or she wants to suspend FEHB coverage to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life instead of FEHB coverage, then suspension will be effective at the end of the day before the effective date of the enrollment or the end of the day before the day designated. Otherwise, the suspension is effective the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the retirement system receives the documentation.
(3) The enrollee and covered family members are not entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion or to convert to an individual contract for health benefits.
(e)
Temporary continuation of coverage.
Employees and family members are entitled to temporary continuation of coverage only as provided under subpart K of this part.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 890.304, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 890.305
Reinstatement of enrollment after military service.
(a) The enrollment of an employee or annuitant whose enrollment was terminated under § 890.304(a)(1)(vi), (vii), or (viii) or § 890.304(b)(4)(iii) is automatically reinstated on the day the employee is restored to a civilian position under the provisions of part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, or on the day the annuitant is separated from the uniformed services, as the case may be.
(b) An employee whose employing office terminates his or her enrollment because his or her order to enter on duty in a uniformed service is for a period longer than 30 days, and who retires on an immediate annuity from his or her Federal civilian position while on such duty, may reinstate his or her enrollment by asking to do so within 60 days after retirement. In the absence of such a request, the retirement system automatically reinstates the enrollment on the day the person separates from the uniformed service. For the retirement system to reinstate the enrollment, the individual must have been covered under this part since his or her first opportunity or for the 5 years of civilian service (excluding the period of uniformed service) immediately preceding the civilian retirement, whichever is shorter.
[43 FR 52460, Nov. 13, 1978, as amended at 59 FR 60296, Nov. 23, 1994; 60 FR 45658, Sept. 1, 1995; 64 FR 31488, June 11, 1999]
§ 890.306
When can annuitants or survivor annuitants change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
(a)
Requirements to continue coverage.
(1) To be eligible to continue coverage in a plan under this part, a former employee in receipt of an annuity must meet the statutory requirements under 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) of having retired on an immediate annuity and having been covered by a plan under this part for the 5 years of service immediately before retirement, or if less than 5 years, for all service since his or her first opportunity to enroll, unless OPM waives the requirement under § 890.108.
(2) To be eligible to continue coverage in a plan under this part, a survivor annuitant must be covered as a family member when the employee or annuitant dies.
(b)
Effective date—generally.
Except as otherwise provided, an annuitant's change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment.
(c)
Belated enrollment.
When an employing office determines that an annuitant was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to continue coverage by enrolling in his or her own name or change the enrollment within the time limits prescribed by this section, the annuitant may do so within 60 days after the employing office advises the annuitant of its determination.
(d)
Enrollment by proxy.
Subject to the discretion of the employing office, an annuitant's representative, having written authorization to do so, may continue the annuitant's coverage by enrolling in the annuitant's own name, or change the enrollment for the annuitant.
(e)
Decreasing enrollment type.
(1) With one exception, an annuitant may decrease enrollment type at any time. Exception: An annuitant who, as an employee, was subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3) at the time he or she retired may not, after retirement, decrease enrollment type in a way that eliminates coverage of a child identified in the order as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and the annuitant has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the annuitant provides documentation to the retirement system that he or she has other coverage for the child or children. The annuitant may not elect self only as long as he or she has one child identified as covered, but may elect self plus one.
(2) A decrease in enrollment type takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment, except that at the request of the annuitant and upon a showing satisfactory to the employing office that there was no family member eligible for coverage under the self plus one or self and family enrollment, or only one family member eligible for coverage under the self and family enrollment, as appropriate, the employing office may make the change effective on the first day of the pay period following the one in which there was, in the case of a self plus one enrollment, no family member or, in the case of a self and family enrollment, only one or no family member.
(f)
Open season.
(1) During an open season as provided by § 890.301(f)—
(i) With one exception, an enrolled annuitant may decrease or increase enrollment type, may change from one plan or option to another, or may make any combination of these changes. Exception: An annuitant who, as an employee, was subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3) at the time he or she retired may not cancel or suspend his or her enrollment, decrease enrollment type in a way that eliminates coverage of a child identified in the order or change to a comprehensive medical plan that does not serve the area where his or her child or children live after retirement as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and the annuitant has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the annuitant provides documentation to the retirement system that he or she has other coverage for the child or children. The annuitant may not elect self only as long as he or she has one child identified as covered, but may elect self plus one.
(ii) An annuitant or survivor annuitant who suspended enrollment under this part to enroll in a Medicare-sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in a Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage, may reenroll.
(2) An open season reenrollment or change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins in January of the next following year.
(3) When a belated open season reenrollment or change of enrollment is accepted by the employing office under paragraph (c) of this section, it takes effect as required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(g)
Change in family status.
(1) An enrolled former employee in receipt of an annuity may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the annuitant's family status changes, including a change in marital status or any other change in family status. In the case of an enrolled survivor annuitant, a change in family status based on additional family members occurs only if the additional family members
are family members of the deceased employee or annuitant. The annuitant must change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of the change in family status, and ending 60 days after the date of the change in family status.
(2) A change of enrollment made in conjunction with the birth of a child, or the addition of a child as a new family member in some other manner, takes effect on the first day of the pay period in which the child is born or becomes an eligible family member.
(h)
Reenrollment of annuitants or survivor annuitants who suspended enrollment to enroll in a Medicare-sponsored plan, or a Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program; or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage.
(1) An annuitant or survivor annuitant who had been enrolled (or was eligible to enroll) for coverage under this part and suspended the enrollment for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of the FEHB Program (as provided by § 890.304(d)), and who subsequently involuntarily loses coverage under one of these programs, may immediately reenroll in any available FEHB plan under this part at any time beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the loss of coverage. A reenrollment under this paragraph (h) of this section takes effect on the date following the effective date of the loss of coverage as shown on the documentation from the non-FEHB coverage. If the request to reenroll is not received by the retirement system within the time period specified, the annuitant must wait until the next available Open Season to reenroll.
(2) An annuitant or survivor annuitant who suspended enrollment in the FEHB Program to enroll in a Medicare sponsored plan or the Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life, but now wants to reenroll in the FEHB Program for any reason other than an involuntary loss of coverage, may do so during the next available Open Season (as provided by paragraph (f) of this section).
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Annuitants who apply for postponed minimum retirement age plus 10 years of service (MRA plus 10) annuity.
(1) A former employee who meets the requirements for an immediate annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g) and for continuation of coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) at the time of separation, and whose enrollment is terminated under § 890.304(a)(1)(ii) may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails the former employee a notice of eligibility. If such former employee dies before the end of this 60-day election period, a survivor who is entitled to a survivor annuity may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails the survivor a notice of eligibility.
(2) The former employee's enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month following the month in which OPM receives the appropriate request or on the commencing date of annuity, whichever is later. A survivor's enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month following the month in which OPM receives the appropriate request.
(k)
Restoration of annuity or compensation payments.
(1) A disability annuitant who was enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part immediately before his or her disability annuity was terminated because of restoration to earning capacity or recovery from disability, and whose disability annuity is restored under 5 U.S.C. 8337(e) after December 31, 1983, or 8455(b), may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of insurance eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request.
(2) An annuitant who was enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part
immediately before his or her compensation was terminated because OWCP determined that he or she had recovered from the job-related injury or disease, and whose compensation is restored due to a recurrence of disability, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OWCP mails a notice of insurance eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period after the date OWCP receives the appropriate request.
(3) A surviving spouse who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because of remarriage, and whose survivor annuity is later restored, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on either—
(i) The first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request; or
(ii) The date of restoration of the survivor annuity or October 1, 1976, whichever is later.
(4) A surviving child who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because he or she ceased being a student, and whose survivor annuity is later restored, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request or the date of restoration of the survivor annuity, whichever is later.
(5) A surviving child who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before his or her survivor annuity was terminated because he or she married, and whose survivor annuity is later restored because the marriage ended, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request or the date of restoration of the survivor annuity, whichever is later.
(6) A surviving spouse who received a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) and who was covered by a health benefits enrollment under this part immediately before remarriage prior to age 55, may enroll in a health benefits plan under this part upon termination of the remarriage. The survivor must provide OPM with a certified copy of the notice of death or the court order terminating the marriage. The surviving spouse must enroll within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of eligibility. The enrollment takes effect on the first day of the month after the date OPM receives the appropriate request and the notice of death or court order terminating the remarriage.
(l)
Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.
An annuitant who meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and who is not enrolled but is covered by another enrollment under this part may continue coverage by enrolling in his or her own name when the annuitant loses coverage under the other enrollment under this part. An enrolled annuitant may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the annuitant or an eligible family member of the annuitant loses coverage under this part or under another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, an annuitant must enroll or change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage. Losses of coverage include, but are not limited to—
(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or a change to self plus one or self only, of the covering enrollment;
(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program;
(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan;
(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan in whole
or in part. For an annuitant who loses coverage under this paragraph (l)(4)—
(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the annuitant must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the annuitant to change the enrollment;
(ii) If a plan discontinues all of its existing options, an annuitant who does not change his or her enrollment is deemed to have enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n); except when the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings, then paragraph (q) of this section applies.
(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, an annuitant who does not change the enrollment will be enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP). In the event that the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings, then paragraph (q) of this section applies;
(iv) After an involuntary enrollment under paragraph (l)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section becomes effective, the annuitant may change the enrollment to another option of the plan into which he or she was enrolled or another health plan of his or her choice prospectively within 90-days after OPM advises the annuitant of the new enrollment;
(v) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, an annuitant must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If an annuitant does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the annuitant will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n). The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;
(vi) An annuitant who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in § 890.301(n), may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy.
(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.
(m)
Move from comprehensive medical plan's area.
An annuitant in a comprehensive medical plan who moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or, if already outside this area, moves or becomes employed further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the move or change of place of employment. Similarly, an annuitant whose covered family member moves outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the family member's move. The change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period that begins after the employing office receives an appropriate request.
(n)
Overseas post of duty.
An annuitant may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes within 60 days after the retirement or death of the employee on whose service title to annuity is based, if the employee was stationed at a post of duty outside a State of the United States or the District of Columbia at the time of retirement or death.
(o)
On return from a uniformed service.
An enrolled annuitant who enters on duty in a uniformed service for 31 days or more may change the enrollment within 60 days after separation from the uniformed service.
(p)
On becoming eligible for Medicare.
An annuitant may change the enrollment from one plan or option to another at any time beginning on the 30th day before becoming eligible for
coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). A change of enrollment based on becoming eligible for Medicare may be made only once.
(q)
Annuity insufficient to pay withholdings.
(1) If an annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the plan that the annuitant is enrolled in, the retirement system must provide the annuitant with information regarding the available plans and written notification of the opportunity to either—
(i) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.502(d); or
(ii) Enroll in any plan in which the annuitant's share of the premium is less than the amount of annuity. If the annuitant elects to change to a lower cost enrollment, the change takes effect immediately upon loss of coverage under the prior enrollment. The exemptions from debt collection procedures that are provided under § 831.1305(d)(2) and § 845.205(d)(2) of this chapter apply to elections under this paragraph (q)(1)(ii).
(2) If the annuitant is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, and does not change the enrollment to a plan in which the annuitant's share of the premium is less than the amount of annuity or does not elect to pay premiums directly, the annuitant is deemed to have enrolled in the standard option of the same plan, unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the withholdings for the standard option.
(3) An annuitant whose enrollment was terminated because the amount of annuity was insufficient to cover the enrollee's share of the premium may apply to be reinstated in any available plan or option.
(4) An annuitant who can show evidence that he or she previously changed to a lower cost option, plan, or to a self-only enrollment prior to May 29, 1990, because the annuity was insufficient to cover the withholdings for the plan in which he or she was enrolled, may apply to change the enrollment to any available plan or option in which the enrollee's share of the total premium exceeds his or her monthly annuity.
(5) The effective date of the reinstatement of enrollment of an annuitant whose enrollment was terminated, or the change of enrollment of an annuitant who previously changed enrollment because his or her annuity was insufficient to cover the annuitant's share of the total premium, and who elects to pay premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.502(f) is either—
(i) The first day of the first pay period that begins after the appropriate request is received by the retirement system; or,
(ii) The later of the date the enrollment was terminated or changed, or May 29, 1990.
(6) Retroactive reinstatement or change of enrollment is contingent upon payment of appropriate contributions retroactive to the effective date of the reinstatement or the change of enrollment. For the purpose of this paragraph (q)(6), a previous cancellation of enrollment because of insufficient annuity to cover the full amount of the withholdings is deemed to be a termination of enrollment.
(r)
Sole survivor.
When an employee or annuitant enrolled for self plus one or self and family dies, leaving a survivor annuitant who is entitled to continue the enrollment, and it is apparent from available records that the survivor annuitant is the sole survivor entitled to continue the enrollment, the office of the retirement system which is acting as employing office must decrease the enrollment to self only, effective on the commencing date of the survivor annuity. On request of the survivor annuitant made within 31 days after the first installment of annuity is paid, the office of the retirement system which is acting as employing office must rescind the action retroactive to the effective date of the change to self only, with corresponding adjustment in withholdings and contributions.
(s)
Election between survivor annuities.
A surviving spouse, irrespective of whether his or her survivor annuity continued or was terminated upon remarriage, who was covered by an enrollment under this part immediately before the remarriage, may elect to continue an enrollment under this part acquired as a dependent by virtue of
the remarriage or to enroll in his or her own right (by virtue of entitlement to the original survivor annuity) in any plan or option under this part within 60 days after the termination of the remarriage and entitlement to a survivor annuity.
[62 FR 38437, July 18, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 49086, Sept. 26, 2001; 67 FR 41306, June 18, 2002; 68 FR 56525, Oct. 1, 2003; 69 FR 31722, June 7, 2004; 69 FR 56928, Sept. 23, 2004; 70 FR 33798, June 10, 2005; 70 FR 71749, Nov. 30, 2005; 72 FR 1912, Jan. 17, 2007; 80 FR 55735, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 65882, Oct. 28, 2015]
§ 890.307
Waiver or suspension of annuity or compensation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section, when annuity or compensation is entirely waived or suspended, the annuitant's enrollment continues for not more than 3 months (not more than 12 weeks for annuitants whose compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, is paid each 4 weeks). If the waiver or suspension continues beyond this period, the employing office will notify the annuitant in writing that the employing office will terminate the enrollment effective at the end of the period, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, unless the annuitant elects to make payment of the premium directly to the employing office during the period of waiver. If the annuitant elects to have the enrollment terminated, the employing office automatically reinstates the enrollment on a prospective basis when the annuitant again receives payment of annuity or compensation. The employing office will make the withholding for the period of waiver or suspension during which enrollment was continued (i.e., 3 months or less).
(b) If the annuitant elects to pay premiums directly, he or she must send to the employing office his or her share of the subscription charge for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, exclusive of the 31-day temporary extension of coverage for conversion provided in § 890.401. The annuitant must pay after each pay period he or she is covered in accordance with a schedule established by the employing office. If the employing office does not receive payment by the date due, the employing office must notify the annuitant in writing that continuation of coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for annuitants residing overseas) after receipt of the notice. If no further payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for annuitants residing overseas). The employing office automatically reinstates enrollment on a prospective basis when payment of annuity or compensation resumes.
(c) If the annuitant is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying within 15 days after receipt of the notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office. The annuitant must file the request within 30 calendar days from the date of termination, and must include supporting documentation. The employing office will determine if the annuitant is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, reinstate the coverage of the annuitant retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the annuitant may request a review of the decision as provided in § 890.104.
(d) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame established in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which the employing office timely received payment.
(e) The employing office will submit all direct premium payments along with its regular health benefits premiums to OPM in accordance with procedures established by OPM.
(f) If suspension of annuity or compensation is because of reemployment, the reemploying office must make the withholding currently and enrollment continues during reemployment.
[59 FR 60296, Nov. 23, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67607, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 890.308
Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.
(a)
Carrier disenrollment: Enrollment reconciliation.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a carrier that
cannot reconcile its record of an individual's enrollment with agency enrollment records or does not receive documentation necessary to resolve the discrepancy from the employing office within 31 days of a request must provide written notice to the individual that the employing office of record does not show him or her as enrolled in the carrier's plan and that he or she will be disenrolled 31 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation to resolve the discrepancy. Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, a copy of the Standard Form 2809 (basic enrollment document) (or a letter confirming an electronic transaction), the Standard Form 2810 transferring the enrollment into the gaining employing office (or the equivalent electronic submission), copies of earnings and leave statements or annuity statements showing withholdings for the health benefits plan, or a document or other credible information from the enrollee's employing office stating that the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan and that the premiums are being paid. After receiving documentation from the enrollee, the carrier must notify both the enrollee and the employing office of record of their decision on the information.
(2) If the carrier does not receive documentation required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section within the specified time frame, the carrier should disenroll the individual, without further notice.
(3) The enrollee may request his or her employing office to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, retirement claim number. The employing office must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to disenroll the individual is made.
(4) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed within 60 calendar days after the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
(5) After reconsideration, the employing office must issue a written notice of its final decision to the individual and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the employing office determines the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
(6) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
(b)
Carrier disenrollment: Death of enrollee.
When a carrier receives, from any reliable source, information of the death of an enrollee with a self only enrollment, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual on the date set forth in § 890.304(a)(1)(iv) or § 890.304(b)(4), as appropriate. When the date of death is unknown, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual on the date which is the last day of the pay period in which information of the death is received. Reliable sources include, but are not limited to, claims for hospital or physician costs incurred at time of death and correspondence returned from the Postal Service noting that the addressee is deceased. If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another
section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under this paragraph (b) is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
(c)
Carrier disenrollment: Child survivor annuitant.
(1) When a child survivor annuitant covered under a self only enrollment reaches age 22, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual effective with the date set forth in § 890.304(c)(1) unless records with the carrier indicate that the child is incapable of self support due to a physical or mental disability. The carrier must provide the enrollee with a written notice of disenrollment prescribed or approved by OPM prior to the date set forth in § 890.304(c)(1).
(2) The child survivor annuitant may request the retirement system to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other identifier, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and the survivor annuity claim number. The retirement system must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual is made.
(3) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed with the retirement system within 60 calendar days from the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
(4) After reconsideration, the retirement system must issue a written notice of its final decision to the child survivor annuitant and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the retirement system determines that he or she is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
(5) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another provision of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.
(d)
Carrier disenrollment: Separation from Federal employment.
When an enrollee notifies the carrier that he or she has separated from Federal employment and is no longer eligible for enrollment, the carrier must disenroll the individual on the last day of the pay period in which the separation occurred, if known, otherwise the carrier must disenroll the employee on the date the employee provides as the date of separation. The carrier must provide the enrollee with a written notice of disenrollment prescribed or approved by OPM.
(e)
Carrier removal from enrollment: Ineligible individuals.
(1) A carrier may request verification of eligibility from the enrollee at any time of an individual who is covered as a family member of the enrollee in accordance with § 890.302. To verify eligibility, the carrier shall send the enrollee a request for appropriate documentation of the individual's relationship to the enrollee with a copy to the enrollee's employing office of record. The request shall contain a written notice that the individual will no longer be covered 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee or the employing office provides appropriate documentation as requested. If the carrier does not receive the requested documentation within the specified time frame or if based on the documentation provided the individual is found not to be eligible, the carrier shall remove the individual from the enrollment and shall provide written notice of removal to the enrollee, with a copy to the employing office, including an explanation of the process for seeking reconsideration. The carrier may extend the time limit to provide appropriate documentation if the enrollee or the removed individual shows to the carrier
that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from providing timely documentation.
(2) Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of birth certificates, marriage certificates, and, if applicable, other proof including that the individual lives with the enrollee and the enrollee is the individual's primary source of financial support.
(3) The effective date of a removal shall be prospective unless the record shows that the enrollee or the removed individual has committed fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan. If fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact is found, the effective date of the removal is the date of loss of eligibility.
(4) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's initial decision must be filed by the enrollee or the removed individual with the enrollee's employing office within 60 calendar days after the date of the carrier's initial decision. The employing office must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended if the enrollee or the removed shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, individual's name, the name of the enrollee's carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, the enrollee's retirement claim number.
(5) The employing office must issue a written notice of its final decision to the enrollee, and notify the carrier of the decision, within 30 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based.
(6) If an enrollee or the removed individual provides acceptable proof of eligibility of an individual subsequent to removal, coverage under the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in coverage, as appropriate.
(f)
Employing office and OPM removal from enrollment: Ineligible individuals.
(1) An enrollee's employing office or OPM may request verification of eligibility from the enrollee at any time of an individual who is covered as a family member of the enrollee in accordance with § 890.302. To verify eligibility, the employing office or OPM shall send the enrollee a request for appropriate documentation of the individual's relationship to the enrollee. The request shall contain a written notice that the individual will no longer be covered 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation as requested. If the employing office or OPM, as applicable, does not receive the requested documentation within the specified time frame or if based on the documentation provided the individual is found not to be eligible, the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall direct the carrier to remove the individual from the enrollment and the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall provide written notice of the removal to the enrollee, with a copy to the carrier, including an explanation of the process for seeking reconsideration. The time limit to provide appropriate documentation may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows to the employing office or OPM, as appropriate, that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from providing timely documentation.
(2) Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of birth certificates, marriage certificates, and, if applicable, other proof including that the individual lives with the enrollee and that the enrollee is the individual's primary source of financial support.
(3) The effective date of the removal shall be prospective unless the record shows that the enrollee or the removed individual has committed fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan. If fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material
fact is found, the effective date of the removal is the date of loss of eligibility.
(4) The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office or OPM's decision to remove the individual from the enrollment within 60 days of an employing office or OPM's initial decision. The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office decision to the employing office or an OPM decision to OPM. The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, the individual's name, the name of the enrollee's carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, the enrollee's retirement claim number.
(5) The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must issue a written notice of its final decision to the enrollee, and notify the carrier of the decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based.
(6) If an enrollee or the removed individual provides acceptable proof of eligibility of an individual subsequent to removal, coverage under the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in coverage, as appropriate.
(g)
Temporary extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage.
If an individual is removed from an enrollment pursuant to paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, the individual may be eligible for a 31-day temporary extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage in accordance with § 890.401 and subparts H and K of this part. Any opportunity to enroll under § 890.401 and subparts H and K shall not extend beyond the date that opportunity would have ended if the individual had been removed on the date of loss of eligibility.
(1)
Example.
An enrollee and his spouse divorce on May 4, 2017. The enrollee does not remove the former spouse from the enrollee's self and family enrollment, so the former spouse is receiving coverage but is not eligible. In this example, the former spouse is not eligible to receive an annuity listed in § 890.805(2). If the employing office later discovers the divorce, and removes the spouse from the enrollment on June 20, 2018, the former spouse is not eligible for a 31-day extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage because the regulatory window for election of 60 days outlined in § 890.805(1) has passed. The sixty-day window began on the final date of the divorce, May 4, 2017 and ended on July 3, 2017.
(2) [Reserved]
(h)
Removal from enrollment: Eligible family members.
(1) An eligible family member may be removed from a self plus one or a self and family enrollment if a request is submitted to the enrollee's employing office for approval at any time during the plan year in the following circumstances:
(i) In the case of a spouse, if the enrollee and his or her spouse provide a notarized request for removal.
(ii) In the case of a child who has reached the age of majority in the child's state of residence (the enrollee's state of residence if the child's is not known), if the enrollee provides proof that the child is no longer his or her dependent as described under § 890.302(b). The enrollee shall also provide the last known contact information for the child.
(iii) In the case of a child who has reached the age of majority in the child's state of residence, if the child provides a notarized request for removal to the employing office.
(2) For removals under paragraph (h)(1) of this section the effective date is the first day of the third pay period
following the date the request is approved by the employing office for employees who pay bi-weekly and the second pay period following the date that the request is approved by the employing office for enrollees who pay premiums monthly.
(3) The family member's removal under this paragraph (h) is considered a cancellation under § 890.304(d) and removed family members are not eligible for temporary extension of coverage and conversion under § 890.401 or temporary continuation of coverage under § 809.1103.
(4) If an eligible family member is removed under this paragraph (h), he or she may only regain coverage under the applicable self plus one or self and family enrollment if requested by the enrollee during the annual open season or within 60 days of the family member losing other health insurance coverage. The enrollee must also provide written consent to reinstatement of coverage from the family member and demonstrate eligibility of the spouse or child as a family member to the employing office.
(5) If an employing office approves a request for removal, the employing office must notify the enrollee and the carrier of the removal immediately. For removals under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the employing office must also immediately notify the child of the removal using the last known contact provided by the enrollee.
(i)
Disenrollment and removal from enrollment: Medicare enrollment requirement for certain Postal Service annuitants and family members.
Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants not enrolled in Medicare Part B may be disenrolled, and Medicare covered members of family not enrolled in Medicare Part B may be removed from coverage, pursuant to § 890.1608(b).
[63 FR 59459, Nov. 4, 1998, as amended at 83 FR 3061, Jan. 23, 2018; 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]

# Subpart D—Temporary Extension of Coverage and Conversion
§ 890.401
Temporary extension of coverage and conversion.
(a)
Thirty-one day extension and conversion.
(1) An enrollee whose enrollment is terminated other than by cancellation of the enrollment or discontinuance of the plan, in whole or part, and a covered family member whose coverage is terminated other than by cancellation of the enrollment or discontinuance of the plan, in whole or in part, is entitled to a 31-day extension of coverage for self only, self plus one, or self and family, as the case may be, without contributions by the enrollee or the Government, during which period he or she is entitled to exercise the right of conversion provided for by this part. The 31-day extension of coverage and the right of conversion for any person ends on the effective date of a new enrollment under this part covering the person.
(2) Termination of an enrollment under this subpart for failure to pay premiums is considered a cancellation of the enrollment for the purposes of this section.
(b)
Continuation of benefits.
(1) Any person who has been granted a 31-day extension of coverage in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and who is confined in a hospital or other institution for care or treatment on the 31st day of the temporary extension is entitled to continuation of the benefits of the plan during the continuance of the confinement but not beyond the 60th day after the end of the temporary extension.
(2) Except when a plan is discontinued in whole or in part or the Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance orders an enrollment change, a person whose enrollment has been changed from one plan to another, or from one option of a plan to the other option of that plan, and who is confined to a hospital or other institution for care or treatment on the last day of enrollment under the prior plan or option, is entitled to continuation of the benefits of the prior plan or option during the continuance of the confinement. Continuation of benefits shall not extend beyond the 91st day after the last day of enrollment in the prior plan or option. The plan or option to which enrollment has been changed shall not pay benefits with respect to that person while he or she is entitled to any inpatient benefits under the prior plan or option. The gaining plan
or option shall begin coverage according to the limits of its FEHB Program contract on the day after the day all inpatient benefits have been exhausted under the prior plan or option or the 92nd day after the last day of enrollment in the prior plan or option, whichever is earlier. For the purposes of this paragraph, “exhausted” means paid or provided to the maximum benefit available under the contract.
(3)
Exception.
The limit on the number of confinement days allowed to be covered under the continuation of benefits specified by paragraph (b)(2) of this subpart does not apply to confinements in a hospital or other institution when the charges and benefit payments for the services provided are covered by the limit specified in subpart I of this part. In these cases, the benefits continue until the end of the confinement.
(c)(1) The employing agency must notify the enrollee of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert to an individual policy within 60 days after the date the enrollment terminates.
(2) The individual whose enrollment terminates must request conversion information from the losing carrier within 31 days of the date of the agency notice of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert.
(3) When an agency fails to provide the notification required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section within 60 days of the date the enrollment terminates, or the individual fails for other reasons beyond his or her control to request conversion as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, he or she may request conversion to an individual policy by writing directly to the carrier. Such a request must be filed within 6 months after the individual became eligible to convert his or her group coverage and must be accompanied by verification of termination of the enrollment; e.g., an SF 50, showing the individual's separation from the service. In addition, the individual must show that he or she was not notified of the termination of the enrollment and of the right to convert, and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to convert. The carrier will determine if the individual is eligible to convert; and when the determination is affirmative, the individual may convert within 31 days of the determination. If the determination by the carrier is negative, the individual may request a review of the carrier's determination from OPM.
(4) When an individual converts his or her coverage anytime after the group coverage has ended, the individual plan coverage is retroactive to the day following the day the temporary extension of group coverage ended. The individual must pay the premiums due for the retroactive period.
(5) An individual who fails to exercise his or her rights to convert to an individual policy within 31 days after receiving notice of the right to convert from the carrier is deemed to have declined the right to convert unless the carrier, or, upon review, OPM determines the failure was for cause beyond his or her control.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 52 FR 10217, Mar. 31, 1987; 54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 57 FR 10609, Mar. 27, 1992; 57 FR 21191, May 19, 1992; 80 FR 55736, Sept. 17, 2015]

# Subpart E—Contributions and Withholdings

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8913; Sec. 890.303 also issued under Sec. 50 U.S.C. 403p, 22 U.S.C. 4069c and 4069c-1; Subpart L also issued under Sec. 599C of Public Law 101-513, 104 Stat. 2064, as amended; Sec. 890.102 also issued under Secs. 11202(f), 11232(e), 11246(b) and (c) of Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251; Sec. 721 of Public Law 105-261, 112 Stat. 2061 unless otherwise noted; Sec. 890.111 also issued under Sec. 1622(b) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 515.
§ 890.501
Government contributions.
(a) The Government contribution toward subscription charges under all health benefits plans, for each enrolled employee who is paid biweekly, is the amount provided in section 8906 of title 5, United States Code, plus 4 percent of that amount.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8906(a) which takes effect with the contract year that begins in January 1999, OPM will determine the amounts representing the weighted average of subscription charges in effect
for each contract year, for FEHB plans and for PSHB plans, respectively, for self only, self plus one, and self and family enrollments, as follows:
(1) The determination of the weighted average of subscription charges will only include those health benefits plans which are continuing FEHB Program participation from one contract year to the next.
(i) If OPM and the carrier for a plan that will continue participation have closed negotiations on rates for the upcoming contract year by September 1 of the current contract year, i.e., the determination year, OPM will use the plan's negotiated subscription charges for the upcoming contract year in the determination of the weighted average of subscription charges.
(ii) If OPM and the carrier for a plan that applied to continue participation have not closed rate negotiations for the upcoming contract year by September 1 of the determination year, OPM will make a deemed adjustment to such plan's subscription charges for the current contract year for purposes of counting eligible enrollees of the plan in the determination of weighted average charges for the upcoming contract year. The deemed adjustment will equal any increase or decrease OPM finds in its determination of the weighted average of subscription charges for the upcoming contract year for all plans with which OPM has closed rates on September 1 of the determination year.
(iii) There will be no subsequent adjustment in the weighted average charges applicable to the upcoming contract year to reflect rate negotiations closed after September 1 of the determination year.
(2) Except as otherwise specified in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the weight OPM gives to each subscription charge for purposes of determining the weighted average of subscription charges for the upcoming contract year will be proportionate to the number of individuals who, as of March 31 of the determination year, are enrolled in the plan or benefits option to which such charge applies and are eligible for a Government health benefits contribution in the upcoming contract year.
(i) When a subscription charge for an upcoming contract year applies to a plan that is the result of a merger of two or more plans which contract separately with OPM during the determination year, or applies to a plan which will cease to offer two benefits options, OPM will combine the self only enrollments, the self plus one enrollments, and the self and family enrollments from the merging plans, or from a plan's benefits options, for purposes of weighting subscription charges in effect for the successor plan for the upcoming contract year.
(ii) When a comprehensive medical plan (CMP) varies subscription charges for different portions of the plan's service area and the plan's contract for the upcoming contract year will reconfigure geographic areas associated with subscription charges, so that there will not be a direct correlation between enrollment in the determination year and rating areas for the upcoming contract year, OPM will estimate what portion of the plan's enrollees on March 31 of the determination year will be subject to each of the plan's subscription rates for the upcoming contract year.
(3) After OPM weights each subscription charge as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, OPM will compute the total of subscription charges associated with self only enrollments, self plus one enrollments, and self and family enrollments, respectively. OPM will divide each subscription charge total by the total number of enrollments such amount represents to obtain the program-wide weighted average subscription charges for self only and for self plus one and self and family enrollments, respectively.
(c) The Government contribution for annuitants and for employees who are not paid biweekly is a percentage of that fixed by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section proportionate to the length of the pay period, rounding fractions of a cent to the nearest cent.
(d) The Government contribution for employees whose annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 workweeks is determined on an annual basis and prorated over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the employing office must make a contribution for an employee for each pay period during which the enrollment continues.
(f) Temporary employees enrolled under 5 U.S.C. 8906a must pay the full subscription charge including the Government contribution. Employees with provisional appointments under § 316.403 of this chapter are not considered to be enrolled under 5 U.S.C. 8906a for the purposes of this paragraph.
(g) The Government contribution for an employee who enters the uniformed services and whose enrollment continues under § 890.303(i) ceases after 365 days in nonpay status.
(h) The Government contribution for an employee who enrolls in a health benefit plan offered through an appropriate SHOP as determined by the Director pursuant to section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, Public Law 111-152 (the Affordable Care Act or the Act) shall be calculated in the same manner as for other employees.
(2) Government contributions and employee withholdings for employees who enroll in a health benefit plan offered through an appropriate SHOP as determined by the Director, pursuant to section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, Public Law 111-152 (the Affordable Care Act or the Act) shall be accounted for pursuant to section 8909 of title 5 and such monies shall only be available for payment of premiums, and costs in accordance with section 8909(a)(2) of title 5.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 47 FR 30963, July 16, 1982; 54 FR 7756, Feb. 23, 1989; 56 FR 10143, Mar. 11, 1991; 60 FR 45658, Sept. 1, 1995; 63 FR 45934, Aug. 28, 1998; 64 FR 31488, June 11, 1999; 78 FR 60656, Oct. 2, 2013; 80 FR 55736, Sept. 17, 2015; 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]
§ 890.502
Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
(a)
Employee and annuitant withholdings and contributions.
(1) Employees and annuitants are responsible for paying the enrollee share of the cost of enrollment for every pay period during which they are enrolled. An employee or annuitant incurs a debt to the United States in the amount of the proper employee or annuitant withholding required for each pay period during which they are enrolled if the appropriate health benefits withholdings or direct premium payments are not made.
(2) An individual is not required to pay withholdings for the period between the end of the pay period in which he or she separates from service and the commencing date of an immediate annuity, if later.
(3) Temporary employees who are eligible to enroll under 5 U.S.C. 8906a must pay the full subscription charges including both the employee share and the Government contribution. Employees with provisional appointments under § 316.403 of this chapter are not considered eligible for coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8906a for the purpose of this paragraph.
(4) The employing office must calculate the withholding for employees whose annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 workweeks on an annual basis and prorate the withholding over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.
(5) The employing office must make the withholding required from enrolled survivor annuitants in the following order. First, withhold from the annuity of a surviving spouse, if there is one. If that annuity is less than the amount required, withhold to the extent necessary from the annuity of the youngest child, and if necessary, from the annuity of the next older child, in succession, until the withholding is met.
(6) Surviving spouses who have a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) and annuitants whose health benefits premiums are more than the amount of their annuities may pay their portion of the health benefits premium directly to the retirement system acting as their employing office, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Procedures when an employee enters a leave without pay (LWOP) status or pay is insufficient to cover premium.
The
employing office must tell the employee about available health benefits choices as soon as it becomes aware that an employee's premium payments cannot be made because he or she will be or is already in a leave without pay (LWOP) status or any other type of nonpay status. (This does not apply when nonpay is as a result of a lapse of appropriations.) The employing office must also tell the employee about available choices when an employee's pay is not enough to cover the premiums.
(1) The employing office must give the employee written notice of the choices and consequences as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and will send a letter by first class mail if it cannot give it to the employee directly. If it mails the notice, it is deemed to be received within 5 days.
(2) The employee must elect in writing to either continue health benefits coverage or terminate it. (Exception: An employee who is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3) cannot elect to terminate his or her enrollment as long as the court/administrative order is still in effect and the employee has at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless the employee provides documentation that he or she has other coverage for the child(ren).) The employee may continue coverage by choosing one of the following ways to pay and returning the signed form to the employing office within 31 days after he or she receives the notice (45 days for an employee residing overseas). When an employee mails the signed form, its postmark will be used as the date the form is returned to the employing office. If an employee elects to continue coverage, he or she must elect in writing one of the following:
(i) Pay the premium directly to the agency and keep the payments current. The employee must also agree that if he or she does not pay the premiums currently, the employing office will recover the amount of accrued unpaid premiums as a debt under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If the employee does not wish to pay the premium directly to the agency and keep payments current, he or she may agree that upon returning to employment or upon pay becoming sufficient to cover the premiums, the employing office will deduct, in addition to the current pay period's premiums, an amount equal to the premiums for a pay period during which the employee was in a leave without pay (LWOP) status or pay was not enough to cover premiums. The employing office will continue using this method to deduct the accrued unpaid premiums from salary until the debt is recovered in full. The employee must also agree that if he or she does not return to work or the employing office cannot recover the debt in full from salary, the employing office may recover the debt from whatever other sources it normally has available for recovery of a debt to the Federal Government.
(3) If the employee does not return the signed form within the time period described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the employing office will terminate the enrollment and notify the employee in writing of the termination.
(4)(i) If the employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from returning a signed form to the employing office within the time period described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, he or she may write to the employing office and request reinstatement of the enrollment. The employee must describe the circumstances that prevented him or her from returning the form. The request for reinstatement must be made within 30 calendar days from the date the employing office gives the employee notice of the termination. The employing office will determine if the employee is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the employing office will reinstate the coverage of the employee retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the employee may request a review of the decision from the employing agency (see § 890.104).
(ii) If the employee is subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3), the coverage cannot terminate. If the employee does
not return the signed form, the coverage will continue and the employee will incur a debt to the Federal Government as discussed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(5) Terminations of enrollment under paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section are retroactive to the end of the last pay period in which the premium was withheld from pay. The employee and covered family members, if any, are entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion and may convert to an individual contract for health benefits. An employee whose coverage is terminated may enroll upon his or her return to duty in pay status in a position in which the employee is eligible for coverage under this part.
(c)
Procedures when agency under-withholds premiums.
(1) An agency that withholds less than the amount due for health benefits contributions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation must submit an amount equal to the uncollected employee contributions and any applicable agency contributions to OPM for deposit in the Employees Health Benefits Fund.
(2) The agency must make the deposit to OPM as soon as possible, but no later than 60 calendar days after it determines the amount of an under-deduction that has occurred, regardless of whether or when the agency recovers the under-deduction. A subsequent agency decision on whether to waive collection of the overpayment of pay caused by failure to properly withhold employee health benefits contributions will be made under 5 U.S.C. 5584 as implemented by 4 CFR chapter I, subchapter G, unless the agency involved is excluded from 5 U.S.C. 5584, in which case any applicable authority to waive the collection may be used.
(d)
Direct premium payments for annuitants.
(1) If an annuity, excluding an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 84 (Thrift Savings Plan), is too low to cover the health benefits premium, or if a surviving spouse receives a basic employee death benefit, the retirement system must provide written information to the annuitant or surviving spouse. The information must describe the health benefits plans available, and include the opportunity to either:
(i) Enroll in a health benefits plan in which the enrollee's share of the premium is less than the annuity amount; or
(ii) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system.
(2) The retirement system must accept direct payment for health benefits premiums in these circumstances. The annuitant or surviving spouse must continue direct payment of the premium even if the annuity increases to the extent that it covers the premium.
(3) The annuitant or surviving spouse must pay the retirement system his or her share of the premium for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, except for the 31-day temporary extension of coverage. The individual must make the payment after each pay period in which he or she is covered using a schedule set up by the retirement system. If the retirement system does not receive payment by the due date, it must notify the individual in writing that continued coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for annuitants or surviving spouses residing overseas) after the notice is received. If no subsequent payments are made, the retirement system terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for annuitants or surviving spouses residing overseas). An annuitant or surviving spouse whose enrollment terminated due to nonpayment of premium may not reenroll or reinstate coverage unless there are circumstances beyond his or her control as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(4) If the annuitant or surviving spouse is prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying the premium within 15 days after receiving the notice, he or she may ask the retirement system to reinstate the enrollment by writing the retirement system. The individual must describe the circumstances and send the request within 30 calendar days from the termination date. The retirement system will determine if the annuitant or surviving spouse is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the retirement system will reinstate the coverage retroactive to the date of termination. If
the determination is negative, then the individual may request a review of the decision from the retirement system, as described in § 890.104.
(5) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which payment was timely received.
(6) The retirement system will submit all direct premium payments along with its regular health benefits premiums to OPM according to procedures established by OPM.
(e)
Procedures for direct payment of premiums during LWOP after 365 days.
(1) An employee who is granted leave without pay (LWOP) under subpart L of part 630 of this chapter (Family and Medical Leave) after 365 days of continued coverage under § 890.303(e) must pay the employee contributions directly to the employing office and keep payments current.
(2) The employee must make payments after the pay period in which the employee is covered according to a schedule set up by the employing office. If the employing office does not receive the payment by the date due, it must notify the employee in writing that continued coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for employees residing overseas) after the notice is received. If no subsequent payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for enrollees residing overseas).
(3) If the enrollee was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making payment within the timeframe in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, he or she may ask the employing office to reinstate the enrollment by writing to the employing office. The employee must file the request within 30 calendar days from the date of termination and must include supporting documentation.
(4) The employing office determines whether the employee is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. When the determination is affirmative, the employing office will reinstate the coverage of the employee retroactive to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the employee may request the employing agency to review the decision as provided under § 890.104.
(5) An employee whose coverage is terminated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section may enroll if he or she returns to duty in a pay status in a position in which the employee is eligible for coverage under this part.
(f)
Uniformed services.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, an employee whose coverage continues under § 890.303(i) is responsible for payment of the employee share of the cost of enrollment for every pay period for which the enrollment continues for the first 365 days of continued coverage as set forth under paragraph (b) of this section. For coverage that continues after 365 days in nonpay status, the employee must pay, on a current basis, the full subscription charge, including both the employee and Government shares, plus an additional 2 percent of the full subscription charge.
(2) As provided by 5 U.S.C. 8906(e)(3), an employing agency may pay both the Government and employee contributions and any additional administrative expenses for the cost of coverage for the employee and the employee's family for a period of 24 months for employees called or ordered to active duty in support of a contingency operation on or after September 14, 2001. The payment of Government and employee contributions and any additional administrative expenses authorized by this section only applies to employees while they are serving in support of a contingency operation, and eligibility for these payments terminates when the employee ceases to be on orders for a contingency operation. Payment of these contributions and expenses is solely at the discretion of the employing agency.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 890.502, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 890.503
Reserves.
(a) The enrollment charge consists of the rate approved by OPM for payment to the plan for each enrollee, plus 4
percent, of which one part is for an administrative reserve and 3 parts are for a contingency reserve for the plan.
(b) The administrative reserve is credited with the one one-hundred-and-fourth of the enrollment charge set aside for the administrative reserve. The administrative reserve is available for payment of administrative expenses of OPM incurred under this part, and for such other purposes as may be authorized by law.
(c)(1)
Contingency reserve.
The contingency reserve for each plan is credited with—
(i) The three one-hundred-and-fourths of the enrollment charge set aside for the contingency reserve from the enrollment charges for employees and annuitants enrolled for that plan;
(ii) Amounts transferred in accordance with law from other contingency reserves and the administrative reserve;
(iii) Income from investment of the reserve;
(iv) Its proportionate share of the income from investment of the administrative reserve; and
(v) Any return of reserves of the plan.
(2)
Contingency reserve minimum balance.
The preferred minimum balance for the contingency reserve for community-rated plans is 1 month's subscription charges at the average recurring monthly rate paid from the Employees Health Benefits Fund for the plan during the most recent contract period. The preferred minimum balance for the contingency reserve for experience-rated plans is 1
1/2
times an amount equal to the sum of an average month's paid claims plus an average month's administrative expenses and retentions, as determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Amounts in excess of the preferred minimum balance for a contingency reserve account may be used with respect to the plan from which the reserve derives: To defray increases in future rates; to increase plan benefits, or to reduce contributions of eligible subscribers and the Government under the program through devices such as temporary suspension of, or reduction in, required contributions or a refund of contributions to eligible subscribers and the Government.
(3)
OPM/carrier reserve transfers.
The target level for total reserves of an experience-rated plan is 3
1/2
times an amount equal to the sum of an average month's paid claims plus an average month's administrative expenses and retentions. Reserves include funds set aside for incurred-but-unpaid benefit claims and the “special” reserve representing the cumulative difference between income to the plan (subscription income plus interest on investments) and plan expenses (benefit costs plus administrative expenses and retentions). Included as carrier reserves is the balance in the letter of credit (LOC) account maintained by OPM for the plan. For the purposes of this section, an average month's paid claims is one-sixth of the total claims paid during the last 6 months of the most recent contract period, and an average month's administrative expenses and retentions is one-twelfth of the administrative expenses and retentions for the most recent contract period.
(i) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all the reserves for an experience-rated plan is less than the target level described in the first four sentences of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the carrier is entitled to payment from the contingency reserve. Such contingency reserve payment shall equal the lesser of: An amount equal to the difference between the target level for the plan's reserves and the total of the reserves for the plan, or an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. OMP must authorize this payment promptly after accepting the accounting statement for the contract period. The contingency reserve payment so authorized will be made available to the carrier's LOC account.
(ii) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all reserves of an experience-rated plan amounts to more than the plan's target level, the excess over the plan's target level must be credited to the contingency reserve maintained by OPM for the plan. OPM will withdraw the excess amount from the plan's LOC account, based on reporting in the annual accounting statement for the year, no sooner than May
1, of the following year. If the accounting statement is not filed by the time limit specified in the plan's contract with OPM, OPM will estimate the amount of the excess reserves and may withdraw that amount from the plan's LOC account, or begin the process of offsetting that amount from subscription payments, no sooner than May 1. The amount withdrawn from the plan's LOC account, or offset from subscription payments, will be credited to that plan's contingency reserve.
(4) OPM may, by agreement with the carrier, approve community rating for a comprehensive plan. If the contingency reserve of the carrier of a community-rated plan exceeds the preferred minimum balance, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the carrier may request OPM to pay to the plan a portion of the reserve not greater than the excess of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. The carrier shall state the reason for the request. OPM will decide whether to allow the request in whole or in part and will advise the plan of its decision.
(5)
Special contingency reserve transfers.
In addition to those amounts, if any, paid under paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section, OPM may authorize such other payments from the contingency reserve as in the judgment of OPM may be in the best interest of employees and annuitants enrolled in the program. A carrier for a plan may apply to OPM at any time for a payment from the contingency reserve when the carrier has good cause, such as unexpected claims experience and variations from expected community rates. In the administration of this part, OPM will accord a high priority to deciding whether to allow requests under this paragraph in whole or in part and will promptly advise the carrier of its decision. Amounts paid from the contingency reserve under paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section shall be reported as subscription income in the year in which paid. By agreement with the carrier and where good cause exists, OPM may accept payment from carrier reserves for credit to the contingency reserve in an amount and under conditions other than those specified in paragraph (c) of this section. For carriers funded by LOC, the returned amount will be withdrawn from the plan's LOC account.
(6)
Subsidization penalty reserve.
This reserve account shall be credited with all subsidization penalties levied against community rated plans outlined in 48 CFR 1615.402(c)(3)(ii)(B). The funds in this account shall be annually distributed to the contingency reserves of all community rated plans subject to the FEHB-specific medical loss ratio threshold on a pro-rata basis. The funds will not be used for one specific carrier or plan.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 37 FR 20668, Oct. 3, 1972; 43 FR 52460, Nov. 13, 1978; 51 FR 7430, Mar. 4, 1985; 52 FR 3212, Feb. 3, 1987; 54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 57 FR 14324, Apr. 20, 1992; 76 FR 38284, June 29, 2011]
§ 890.504
Disposition of contingency reserves upon reorganization or merger of plans.
Upon reorganization or merger of a plan, OPM must credit to the surviving plan the reserves of the reorganized or merged plan. If more than one plan survives, the reserves must be divided among the surviving plans in proportion to the number of enrollees continuing to subscribe to the surviving plans.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990]
§ 890.505
Recurring premium payments to carriers.
The procedures for payment of premiums, contingency reserve, and interest distribution to FEHB Program carriers shall be those contained in 48 CFR subpart 1632.170.
[57 FR 14324, Apr. 20, 1992]

# Subpart F—Transfers From Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
§ 890.601
Coverage.
An annuitant (a retired employee or survivor under part 891 of this chapter) who is enrolled, or is eligible to enroll, under the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (part 891 of this chapter) is eligible to enroll under
the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program under this part.
[39 FR 20055, June 6, 1974]
§ 890.602
Opportunity to change enrollment.
An annuitant eligible to enroll under § 890.601 may elect to enroll on and after August 8, 1978.
[43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978, as amended at 62 FR 38440, July 18, 1997]
§ 890.603
Effective date.
The effective date of an enrollment under § 890.602 is the first day of the first pay period after the election is received by the retirement system, but not earlier than January 1, 1979.
[43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978; 43 FR 38569, Aug. 29, 1978]
§ 890.604
[Reserved]
§ 890.605
Persons confined on effective date.
Benefits may not be limited for persons who, on the effective date of an enrollment under § 890.602, are confined in a hospital or institution.
[43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978]
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Benefits for Former Spouses

# Source:
51 FR 15748, Apr. 28, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.801
Introduction.
This subpart sets forth policies and procedures for obtaining health benefits coverage that are unique to former spouses of Federal employees and retirees.
§ 890.802
Definition.
In this subpart, a
Qualifying court order
means a court order acceptable for processing as defined in § 838.103 of this chapter or qualifying court order as defined in § 838.1003 of this chapter.
[57 FR 33599, July 29, 1992]
§ 890.803
Who may enroll.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a former spouse is eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under this part provided that—
(1) The former spouse whose marriage to an employee, employee annuitant, or a former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) or Foreign Service employee is dissolved has not remarried before age 55; and
(2) The former spouse was enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part as a family member at any time during the 18 months preceding the date of the dissolution of marriage; and
(3)(i) The former spouse currently receives, or has future title to receive (A) a portion of annuity payable to the employee upon retirement based on a qualifying court order for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 8345(j) or 5 U.S.C. 8467; (B) survivor annuity benefits based on a qualifying court order for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 5 U.S.C. 8445; or (C) a survivor annuity elected by the employee under 5 U.S.C. 8339(j)(3) or 5 U.S.C. 8417(b), including a former spouse who is designated as an insurable interest pursuant to §§ 831.613(a) and (b) and 842.605(a) and (b) of this chapter (or benefits similar to those under this paragraph under another retirement system for Government employees);
or
(ii) The former spouse was married to an employee who retired before May 7, 1985, and (A) the employee annuitant elects to provide a survivor annuity to the former spouse under procedures prescribed in § 831.682 of this title; or (B) the former spouse satisfies all of the conditions for a survivor annuity in § 831.683 of this title;
or
(iii) The former spouse was married to an employee who died before May 7, 1985, and the employee was eligible for an immediate annuity on or before the date of death,
and
the former spouse satisfies all of the conditions for a survivor annuity in § 831.683 of this title, or
(iv) The former spouse was married to an employee or former employee of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) for at least 10 years during the employee's CIA service, at least 5 years of which both the employee and the former spouse spent outside the United
States, and the marriage was dissolved before May 7, 1985;
or
,
(v) The former spouse was married to an employee or former employee of the Foreign Service for at least 10 years during the employee's government service, and the marriage was dissolved before May 7, 1985.
(b) Except as contained in paragraphs (a)(3) (iv) and (v) of this section, a former spouse of an employee who separates from Federal service before becoming eligible for immediate annuity is eligible to enroll only if the former spouse's marriage to the employee was dissolved before the employee left Federal service.
(c) If a former spouse cannot apply for benefits on his or her own behalf because of a mental or physical disability, application may be filed by a court-appointed guardian.
[51 FR 15748, Apr. 28, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 39497, Oct. 22, 1987, and 53 FR 32368, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 45070, Nov. 8, 1988; 57 FR 21192, May 19, 1992; 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993; 62 FR 38440, July 18, 1997]
§ 890.804
Coverage.
(a)
Type of enrollment.
A former spouse who meets the requirements of § 890.803 may elect coverage for self only, self plus one, or self and family. A self and family enrollment covers only the former spouse and all eligible children of both the former spouse and the employee, former employee, or employee annuitant, provided such children are not otherwise covered by a health plan under this part. A self plus one enrollment covers only the former spouse and one eligible child of both the former spouse and the employee, former employee, or employee annuitant, provided the child is not otherwise covered by a health plan under this part. A child must be under age 26 or incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability existing before age 26. No person may be covered by two enrollments.
(b) A child is considered to be the child of the former spouse or the employee, former employee, or employee annuitant if he or she is—
(1) A natural child; or
(2) An adopted child.
(c)
Child incapable of self-support.
When a former spouse enrolls for a family enrollment which includes a child who has become 26 years of age and is incapable of self-support, the employing office shall determine such child's eligibility in accordance with § 890.302(c), (d), and (e).
[78 FR 64877, Oct. 30, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.805
Application time limitations.
(a) Except for former spouses meeting the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) and (v) of this part, former spouses must apply for health benefits coverage—
(1) Within 60 days after dissolution of the marriage to the Federal employee; or
(2) Within 60 days after the date of OPM's notice of eligibility to enroll based on entitlement to one of the following:
(i) A former spouse annuity elected under 5 U.S.C. 8339(j)(3), 5 U.S.C. 8417(b), or 5 CFR 831.682;
(ii) A former spouse annuity under § 831.683;
(iii) A former spouse insurable interest annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8339(k)(1) or 8420(a);
(iv) A former spouse annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f);
(v) An apportionment under 5 U.S.C. 8345(j) or 8467; or
(3) Within 60 days after the date of the notice of eligibility to enroll based on entitlement to a former spouse annuity under another retirement system for Government employees.
(b) Former spouses who meet the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3)(iv) of this part must apply for health benefits coverage by April 1, 1987. Where circumstances warrant, the former spouse may request that the filing date be waived. The authority of the Director of Central Intelligence to direct OPM to waive the filing date has been delegated to CIA's Office of Personnel. Requests for waiver should be addressed to the Office of Personnel, Retirement Division, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505. OPM will waive the April 1, 1987, filing date upon notification to do so from the Director of Central Intelligence.
(c) Former spouses who meet the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part must apply for health benefits
coverage by October 7, 1988. Where circumstances warrant, the former spouse may request the Secretary of State to waive the filing date. The authority of the Secretary of State to waive the filing date has been delegated to the Department of State's Retirement Division. Requests for waiver should be addressed to the Department of State, Retirement Division, Washington, DC 20520. OPM will accept the waiver upon notification to do so from the Department of State.
[51 FR 15748, Apr. 28, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 45071, Nov. 8, 1988; 57 FR 21192, May 19, 1992; 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993; 62 FR 38440, July 18, 1997]
§ 890.806
When can former spouses change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
(a)
Initial opportunity to enroll.
A former spouse who has met the eligibility requirements of § 890.803 and the application time limitation requirements of § 890.805 may enroll at any time after the employing office establishes that these requirements have been met.
(b)
Effective date—generally.
(1) Except as otherwise provided, an enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request and satisfactory proof of eligibility as required by paragraph (a) of this section. If a former spouse requests immediate coverage, and the employing office receives an appropriate request and satisfactory proof of eligibility within 60 days after the date of divorce, the enrollment may be made effective on the same day that temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part would otherwise take effect.
(2) A change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives the appropriate request.
(c)
Belated enrollment.
When an employing office determines that a former spouse was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to enroll or change the enrollment within the time limits prescribed by this section, the former spouse may do so within 60 days after the employing office advises the former spouse of its determination.
(d)
Enrollment by proxy.
Subject to the discretion of the employing office, a former spouse's representative, having written authorization to do so, may enroll or change the enrollment for the former spouse.
(e)
Decreasing enrollment type.
(1) A former spouse may decrease enrollment type at any time.
(2) A decrease in enrollment type takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment, except that at the request of the former spouse and upon a showing satisfactory to the employing office that there was no family member eligible for coverage under the self plus one or self and family enrollment, or only one family member eligible for coverage under the self and family enrollment, as appropriate, the employing office may make the change effective on the first day of the pay period following the one in which there was, in the case of a self plus one enrollment, no family member or, in the case of a self and family enrollment, only one or no family member.
(f)
Open season.
(1) During an open season as provided by § 890.301(f)—
(i) An enrolled former spouse may decrease enrollment type, increase enrollment type provided the family member(s) to be covered under the enrollment is eligible for coverage under § 890.804, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes.
(ii) A former spouse who suspended the enrollment under this part for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage, may reenroll.
(2) An open season reenrollment or change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period
that begins in January of the next following year.
(3) When a belated open season reenrollment or change of enrollment is accepted by the employing office under paragraph (c) of this section, it takes effect as required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(g)
Change in family status.
(1) An enrolled former spouse may increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the birth or acquisition of a child who meets the eligibility requirements of § 890.804.
(2) A change in enrollment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section takes effect on the first day of the pay period in which the child is born or becomes an eligible family member.
(h)
Reenrollment of former spouses who suspended enrollment to enroll in a Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage.
(1) A former spouse who had been enrolled for coverage under this part and suspended enrollment for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB (as provided in § 890.807(e)), or who meets the eligibility requirements of § 890.803 and the application time limitation requirements of § 890.805, but postponed enrollment in the FEHB Program for the purpose of enrolling in one of these non-FEHB programs, and who subsequently involuntarily loses coverage under one of these programs, may immediately reenroll in any available FEHB plan under this part at any time beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the loss of coverage. A reenrollment under this paragraph (h) of this section takes effect on the date following the effective date of the loss of coverage as shown on the documentation from the non-FEHB coverage. If the request to reenroll is not received by the employing office or retirement system within the time period specified, the former spouse must wait until the next available Open Season to reenroll.
(2) A former spouse who suspended enrollment in the FEHB Program to enroll in a Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or the TRICARE-for-Life program, but now wants to reenroll in the FEHB Program for any reason other than an involuntary loss of coverage, may do so during the next available Open Season (as provided by paragraph (f) of this section).
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.
An enrolled former spouse may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another or make any combination of these changes when the former spouse or a child who meets the eligibility requirements under § 890.804 loses coverage under another enrollment under this part or under another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, the former spouse must change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage, provided he or she continues to meet the eligibility requirements under § 890.803. Losses of coverage include but are not limited to—
(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or a change to self plus one or self only, of the covering enrollment;
(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program;
(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan;
(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan in whole or in part. For a former spouse who
loses coverage under this paragraph (j)(4)—
(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the former spouse must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the former spouse to change the enrollment;
(ii) If the whole plan is discontinued, a former spouse who does not change the enrollment within the time set will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n);
(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, a former spouse who does not change the enrollment will be enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP);
(iv) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, the former spouse must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If a former spouse does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the former spouse will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n) of this section. The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;
(v) A former spouse who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in § 890.301(n), may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of Medical assistance for the needy.
(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.
(k)
Move from comprehensive medical plan's area.
A former spouse in a comprehensive medical plan who moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or, if already outside this area, moves or becomes employed further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the move or change of place of employment. Similarly, a former spouse whose covered family member moves outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the family member's move. The change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period that begins after the employing office receives an appropriate request.
(l)
On becoming eligible for Medicare.
A former spouse may change the enrollment from one plan or option to another at any time beginning on the 30th day before becoming eligible for coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). A change of enrollment based on becoming eligible for Medicare may be made only once.
(m)
Annuity insufficient to pay withholdings.
(1) If the annuity of a former spouse is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge for the plan in which he or she is enrolled, the retirement system must provide the former spouse with information regarding the available plans and written notification of the opportunity to either—
(i) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.808(d); or
(ii) Enroll in any plan with a full premium that is less than the amount of annuity. If the former spouse elects to change to a lower cost enrollment, the change takes effect immediately upon loss of coverage under the prior enrollment.
(2) If the former spouse is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, and does not elect a plan with a full premium that is less than the annuity or does not elect to pay premiums directly, he or she is deemed to have enrolled in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge for the standard option.
(3) A former spouse who is enrolled in a plan with only one option, who fails to make the election required by this paragraph (m)(3) will be subject to the provisions of § 890.807(c).
[62 FR 38440, July 18, 1997; 62 FR 49557, Sept. 22, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 49087, Sept. 26, 2001; 67 FR 41307, June 18, 2002; 70 FR 71749, Nov. 30, 2005; 72 FR 1912, Jan. 17, 2007; 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 65883, Oct. 28, 2015]
§ 890.807
When do enrollments terminate, cancel or suspend?
(a)(1) Except for former spouses meeting the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) and (v) of this part, a former spouse's enrollment terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the earliest of the following events occurs:
(i) Court order ceases to provide entitlement to survivor annuity or portion of retirement annuity under a retirement system for Government employees.
(ii) Former spouse remarries before age 55.
(iii) Former spouse dies.
(iv) Employee or annuitant on whose service the benefits are based dies and no survivor annuity is payable.
(v) Separated employee on whose service the benefits are based dies before the requirements for deferred annuity have been met.
(vi) Employee on whose service benefits are based leaves Federal service before establishing title to an immediate annuity or a deferred annuity.
(vii) Refund of retirement money is paid to the separated employee on whose service the health benefits are based.
(2) OPM may authorize a longer time frame for the temporary extension of coverage for conversion than the 31 days provided in § 890.401(a) if in OPM's judgment the former spouse could not have known that (1) the employee on whose service benefits are based left Federal service before establishing title to an immediate or deferred annuity; or (2) the separated employee on whose service the benefits are based died before the requirements for deferred annuity had been met. In such cases, the right of conversion may be exercised up to 31 days after the employing office's notice of termination. The former spouse must pay the full premium (employee's and Government's share) during the extended period, exclusive of the 31-day period following the notice.
(3) Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the time frame established in accordance with § 890.808(d)(1) is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which payment has been timely received.
(4) A former spouse whose enrollment is terminated under this paragraph may not reenroll.
(b) The enrollment of a former spouse who meets the requirements in § 890.803(a)(3) (iv) or (v) of this part terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the earliest of the following events occurs:
(1) Former spouse remarries before age 55.
(2) Former spouse dies.
(c)
Failure to make an election under § 890.806(m).
(1) If the annuity is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge due for the plan in which the former spouse is enrolled, the former spouse may elect one of the two opportunities offered under § 890.806(m) (electing a plan with a full subscription charge that is less than the annuity; or paying premiums directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.808(d)). Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section the enrollment of a former spouse who fails to make an election within the specified time frame will be terminated.
(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making an election within the time limit after receipt of the final notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the retirement system. The retirement system will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative, the individual's coverage may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination or prospectively. If the determination is negative, the individual may request reconsideration of the decision from OPM.
(3) If the former spouse does not make an election under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, the former spouse is deemed to have elected enrollment in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the full withholdings for the standard option.
(d)
Coverage of members of the family.
The coverage of a member of the family of a former spouse terminates, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion, at midnight of the earlier of the following dates:
(1) The day on which the individual ceases to be an eligible family member.
(2) The day the former spouse ceases to be enrolled, unless the family member is entitled as a survivor annuitant to continued enrollment or is entitled to continued coverage under the enrollment of another.
(e)
Cancellation.
(1) A former spouse may cancel his or her enrollment at any time by filing an appropriate request with the employing office. The cancellation takes effect on the last day of the pay period in which the appropriate request cancelling the enrollment is received by the employing office.
(2) A former spouse may suspend enrollment in FEHB for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage. To suspend FEHB coverage, documentation of eligibility for coverage under the non-FEHB Program must be submitted to the employing office or retirement system. If the documentation is received within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 31 days after the effective date of the enrollment in the Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar program, or within 31 days before or after the day designated by the former spouse as the day he or she wants to suspend FEHB coverage to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage, then the suspension will be effective at the end of the day before the effective date of the enrollment or the end of the day before the day designated. Otherwise, the suspension is effective the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office or retirement system receives the documentation.
(3) The former spouse and family members, if any, are not entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion or to convert to an individual contract for health benefits.
(4) A former spouse who cancels his or her enrollment for any reason may not later reenroll in the FEHB Program.
[51 FR 15748, Apr. 28, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 39497, Oct. 22, 1987, and 53 FR 32368, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 45071, Nov. 8, 1988; 56 FR 25997, June 6, 1991; 57 FR 48162, Oct. 22, 1992; 62 FR 38441, July 18, 1997; 62 FR 53223, Oct. 14, 1997; 66 FR 49088, Sept. 26, 2001; 67 FR 41307, June 18, 2002; 70 FR 71749, Nov. 30, 2005]
§ 890.808
Employing office responsibilities.
(a)
Application for benefits.
The former spouse's application for health benefits may be in the form of a Standard Form 2809, letter, or written statement to the employing office. Former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(iv) of this part must also include with their application a request for waiver of the application time limitation in accordance with § 890.805(b) of this part. Former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part must also include with their application a request for waiver of the application time limitation in accordance with § 890.805(c) of this part.
(b)
Administration of the enrollment process.
(1) The employing office will set up a method for accepting applications for enrollment informing the former spouse what documents to submit and where to submit them for an eligibility determination, and collecting premium payments. The method will include procedures for verifying the eligibility requirements under § 890.803(a) (1) and (2) of this part. The
employing office must obtain OPM, Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System (FSRDS), or CIA Retirement and Disability System (CIARDS) documentation that the former spouse meets the additional requirement under § 890.803(a)(3) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this part. A request for the retirement system's determination whether a court order is a qualifying court order for health benefits enrollment under this subpart must be accompanied by the documentation specified in § 838.221, § 838.721, or § 838.1005 of this chapter.
(2) The employing office will send the former spouse notice, in writing, of its decision. When an employing office informs a former spouse of his or her eligibility to enroll, it will identify the documents on which it based its decision and will include a premium payment schedule and statement of the requirements for continued enrollment under § 890.803. If the former spouse does not qualify for health benefits coverage, the employing office must give the former spouse a reconsideration right under § 890.104. Reconsideration requests from former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(iv) of this part must be directed to the Office of Personnel, Retirement Division, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505. Reconsideration requests from former spouses applying for benefits under § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part must be directed to the Department of State, Retirement Division, Washington, DC 20520.
(3) The agency employing office will maintain a health benefits file for the former spouse as a file separate from the personnel records of the employee or former employee. The retirement system acting as employing office for the former spouse may file the former spouse health benefits records in with the annuitant's retirement records.
(4) The former spouse will be required to certify that he or she meets the requirements listed in § 890.803 and that he or she will notify the employing office within 31 days of an event that results in failure to meet one or more of the requirements.
(c)
Qualifying court order.
Subject to a 31-day extension period for conversion, the duration of health benefits coverage will coincide with any period specified in the qualifying court order providing for an annuity. A court order not meeting the requirements under part 838 of this chapter will not be used to establish or continue entitlement to a former spouse's health benefits coverage.
(d)
Premium payments.
(1) The former spouse must remit to the employing office the full subscription charge for the enrollment for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, exclusive of the 31-day temporary extension of coverage for conversion provided in §§ 890.401 and 890.807(a)(2). Payment must be made after the pay period in which the former spouse is covered in accordance with a schedule established by the employing office (see definition of
pay period
under § 890.101(a)). If the employing office does not receive payment by the due date the employing office must notify the former spouse in writing that continuation of coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for enrollees residing overseas) after receipt of the notice. If no subsequent payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days (90 days for enrollees residing overseas) after the date of the notice. Termination for nonpayment of premium is considered a voluntary cancellation under § 890.807(d). A former spouse whose enrollment is terminated because of nonpayment of premium may not reenroll or reinstate coverage except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) If the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making payment within 15 days after receipt of the notice, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office. Such a request must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of termination and must be accompanied by verification that the individual was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying within the time limit. The employing office will determine if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage; and, when the determination is affirmative,
the individual's coverage may be reinstated retroactively to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the individual may request a review of the decision from the employing agency as provided under § 890.104.
(3) The employing office will submit all premium payments collected from former spouses along with its regular health benefits payments to OPM in accordance with procedures established by that Office.
(e)
Withholding from annuity.
The retirement system acting as employing office for a former spouse will establish a method for withholding the full subscription charge from the former spouse's annuity check. When the annuity is insufficient to cover the full subscription charge, the retirement system will follow the procedures specified in § 890.806(l).
[51 FR 15748, Apr. 28, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 2506, Jan. 23, 1987; 52 FR 39497, Oct. 22, 1987, and 53 FR 32368, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 45071, Nov. 8, 1988; 56 FR 25997, June 6, 1991; 57 FR 21192, May 19, 1992; 57 FR 33598, July 29, 1992; 59 FR 60297, Nov. 23, 1994; 59 FR 67607, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 37810, July 22, 1996; 62 FR 38442, July 18, 1997]

# Subpart I—Limit on Inpatient Hospital Charges, Physician Charges, and FEHB Benefit Payments

# Source:
57 FR 10610, Mar. 27, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.901
Purpose.
This subpart identifies the individuals whose charges and FEHB benefit payments for inpatient hospital services and/or physician services may be limited and sets forth the circumstances of the limit.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.902
Definition.
For purposes of this subpart,
Retired enrolled individual
means an individual who:
(a)(1) Is covered by a Federal Employees Health Benefits plan (including individuals covered under 5 U.S.C. 8905a) described by 5 U.S.C. 8903(1), (2) and (3), or 5 U.S.C. 8903a and is:
(i) An annuitant as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(3); or
(ii) A former spouse as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) or enrolled for continued coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8905a(f); or
(2) Is a family member covered by the family enrollment of an annuitant or former spouse as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901, or a former spouse enrolled for continued coverage under 5 U.S.C. 8905a(f); and
(b) Is not employed in a position which confers FEHB coverage; and
(c) Is age 65 or older or becomes age 65 while receiving inpatient hospital services or physician services; and
(d) Is not covered by Medicare part A and/or part B.
[57 FR 10610, Mar. 27, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.903
Covered services.
(a) The limitation on the charges and FEHB benefit payments for inpatient hospital services apply to inpatient hospital services which are:
(1) Covered under both Medicare part A and the retired enrolled individual's FEHB plan; and
(2) Supplied to a retired enrolled individual who does not have Medicare part A; and
(3) Provided by hospital providers who have in force participation agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) consistent with sections 1814(a) and 1866 of the Social Security Act, and receive Medicare part A payments in accordance with the diagnosis related group (DRG) based prospective payment system (PPS).
(b) The limitation on the charges and FEHB benefit payments for physician services apply to physician services, (as defined in section 1848(j) of the Social Security Act), which are:
(1) Covered under both Medicare part B and the retired enrolled individual's FEHB plan; and
(2) Supplied to a retired enrolled individual who does not have Medicare part B.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.904
Determination of FEHB benefit payment.
(a) The FEHB plan's benefit payment for inpatient hospital services under this subpart is the amount calculated by the FEHB plan, using information and instructions provided by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and guidelines specified by OPM, as equivalent to the Medicare Part A payment under the DRG-based PPS (this is, the amount payable before the Medicare deductible, coinsurance and lifetime limits are applied), reduced by any FEHB plan deductible, coinsurance, copayment, or preadmission certification penalty that is the responsibility of the retired enrolled individual.
(b) The FEHB plan's benefit payment for physician services under this subpart is determined by taking the lower of the following amounts:
(1) The amount determined by the FEHB plan, which is equivalent to the Medicare part B payment under the Medicare Participating Physician Fee Schedule for Medicare participating physicians and the Medicare Nonparticipating Physician Fee Schedule for Medicare nonparticipating physicians (the amount payable before the Medicare deductible and coinsurance are applied); or
(2) The actual billed charges; and
(3) Reducing the lower amount by any FEHB plan deductible, coinsurance, or copayment that is the responsibility of the retired enrolled individual.
[58 FR 38663, July 20, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.905
Limits on inpatient hospital and physician charges.
(a) Hospitals may not collect from FEHB plans and retired enrolled individuals for inpatient hospital services more than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part A payment under the DRG-based PPS.
(b) Medicare participating providers may not collect from FEHB plans and retired enrolled individuals for physician services more than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part B payment under the Medicare Participating Physician Fee Schedule.
(c) Medicare nonparticipating providers may not collect from FEHB plans and retired enrolled individuals for physician services more than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare limiting charge amount.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995; 60 FR 28019, May 26, 1995]
§ 890.906
Retired enrolled individuals coinsurance payments.
(a) A retired enrolled individual's coinsurance responsibility for inpatient hospital services is calculated in accordance with the plan's contractual benefit structure and is based on the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part A payment under the DRG-based PPS.
(b) A retired enrolled individual's coinsurance responsibility for physician services is calculated in accordance with the plan's contractual benefit structure and is based on the lower of the actual charges or the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part B payment under the Medicare Participating Physician Fee Schedule for Medicare participating physicians and the Medicare Nonparticipating Physician Fee Schedule for Medicare nonparticipating physicians.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.907
Effective dates.
(a) The limitation specified in this subpart applies to inpatient hospital admissions commencing on or after January 1, 1992.
(b) The limitation specified in this subpart applies to physician services supplied on or after January 1, 1995.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.908
Notification of HHS.
An FEHB plan, under the oversight of OPM, will notify the Secretary of HHS, or the Secretary's designee, if the plan finds that:
(a) A hospital knowingly and willfully collects, on a repeated basis, more than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part A payment under the DRG-based PPS.
(b) A Medicare participating physician or supplier knowingly and willfully collects, on a repeated basis, more
than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare part B payment under the Medicare Participating Physician Fee Schedule.
(c) A Medicare nonparticipating physician or supplier knowingly and willfully charges, on a repeated basis, more than the amount determined to be equivalent to the Medicare limiting charge amount.
[60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.909
End-of-year settlements.
Neither OPM, nor the FEHB plans, will perform end-of-year settlements with, or make retroactive adjustments as a result of retroactive changes in the Medicare payment calculation information to, hospital providers who have received FEHB benefit payments under this subpart.
[57 FR 10610, Mar. 27, 1992. Redesignated at 60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]
§ 890.910
Provider information.
The hospital provider information used to calculate the amount equivalent to the Medicare part A payment will be updated on an annual basis.
[57 FR 10610, Mar. 27, 1992. Redesignated at 60 FR 26668, May 18, 1995]

# Subpart J—Administrative Sanctions Imposed Against Health Care Providers

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8902a.

# Source:
68 FR 5475, Feb. 3, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions and Definitions
§ 890.1001
Scope and purpose.
(a)
Scope.
This subpart implements 5 U.S.C. 8902a, as amended by Public Law 105-266 (October 19, 1998). It establishes a system of administrative sanctions that OPM may, or in some cases, must apply to health care providers who have committed certain violations. The sanctions include debarment, suspension, civil monetary penalties, and financial assessments.
(b)
Purpose.
OPM uses the authorities in this subpart to protect the health and safety of the persons who obtain their health insurance coverage through the FEHBP and to assure the financial and programmatic integrity of FEHBP transactions.
§ 890.1002
Use of terminology.
Unless otherwise indicated, within this subpart the words “health care provider,” “provider,” and “he” mean a health care provider(s) of either gender or as a business entity, in either the singular or plural. The acronym “OPM” and the pronoun “it” connote the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.
§ 890.1003
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Carrier
means an entity responsible for operating a health benefits plan described by 5 U.S.C. 8903 or 8903a.
Community
means a geographically-defined area in which a provider furnishes health care services or supplies and for which he may request a limited waiver of debarment in accordance with this subpart.
Defined service area
has the same meaning as community.
Contest
means a health care provider's request for the debarring or suspending official to reconsider a proposed sanction or the length or amount of a proposed sanction.
Control interest
means that a health care provider:
(1) Has a direct and/or indirect ownership interest of 5 percent or more in an entity;
(2) Owns a whole or part interest in a mortgage, deed of trust, note, or other obligation secured by the entity or the entity's property or assets, equating to a direct interest of 5 percent or more of the total property or assets of the entity;
(3) Serves as an officer or director of the entity, if the entity is organized as a corporation;
(4) Is a partner in the entity, if the entity is organized as a partnership;
(5) Serves as a managing employee of the entity, including but not limited to employment as a general manager, business manager, administrator, or other position exercising, either directly or through other employees, operational or managerial control over the activities of the entity or any portion of the entity;
(6) Exercises substantive control over an entity or a critical influence over the activities of the entity or some portion of thereof, whether or not employed by the entity; or
(7) Acts as an agent of the entity.
Conviction
or
convicted
has the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(a)(1)(C).
Covered individual
means an employee, annuitant, family member, or former spouse covered by a health benefits plan described by 5 U.S.C. 8903 or 8903a or an individual eligible to be covered by such a plan under 5 U.S.C. 8905(d).
Days
means calendar days, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
Debarment
means a decision by OPM's debarring official to prohibit payment of FEHBP funds to a health care provider, based on 5 U.S.C. 8902a (b), (c), or (d) and this subpart.
Debarring official
means an OPM employee authorized to issue debarments and financial sanctions under this subpart.
FEHBP
means the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
Health care services or supplies
means health care or services and supplies such as diagnosis and treatment; drugs and biologicals; supplies, appliances and equipment; and hospitals, clinics, or other institutional entities that furnish supplies and services.
Incarceration
means imprisonment, or any type of confinement with or without supervised release, including but not limited to home detention, community confinement, house arrest, or similar arrangements.
Limited waiver
means an approval by the debarring official of a health care provider's request to receive payments of FEHBP funds for items or services rendered in a defined geographical area, notwithstanding debarment, because the provider is the sole community provider or sole source of essential specialized services in a community.
Mandatory debarment
means a debarment based on 5 U.S.C. 8902a(b).
Office
or
OPM
means the United States Office of Personnel Management or the component thereof responsible for conducting the administrative sanctions program described by this subpart.
Permissive debarment
means a debarment based on 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c) or (d).
Provider
or
provider of health care services or supplies
means a physician, hospital, clinic, or other individual or entity that, directly or indirectly, furnishes health care services or supplies.
Reinstatement
means a decision by OPM to terminate a health care provider's debarment and to restore his eligibility to receive payment of FEHBP funds.
Sanction
or
administrative sanction
means any administrative action authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8902a or this subpart, including debarment, suspension, civil monetary penalties, and financial assessments.
Should know
or
should have known
has the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(a)(1)(D).
Sole community provider
means a provider who is the only source of primary medical care within a defined service area.
Sole source of essential specialized services in a community
means a health care provider who is the only source of specialized health care items or services in a defined service area and that items or services furnished by a non-specialist cannot be substituted without jeopardizing the health or safety of covered individuals.
Suspending official
means an OPM employee authorized to issue suspensions under 5 U.S.C. 8902a and this subpart.

# Mandatory Debarments
§ 890.1004
Bases for mandatory debarments.
(a)
Debarment required.
OPM shall debar a provider who is described by any category of offense set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(b).
(b)
Direct involvement with an OPM program unnecessary.
The conduct underlying the basis for a provider's mandatory debarment need not have involved an FEHBP covered individual or transaction, or any other OPM program.
§ 890.1005
Time limits for OPM to initiate mandatory debarments.
OPM shall send a provider a written notice of a proposed mandatory debarment within 6 years of the event that
forms the basis for the debarment. If the basis for the proposed debarment is a conviction, the notice shall be sent within 6 years of the date of the conviction. If the basis is another agency's suspension, debarment, or exclusion, the OPM notice shall be sent within 6 years of the effective date of the other agency's action.
§ 890.1006
Notice of proposed mandatory debarment.
(a)
Written notice.
OPM shall inform a provider of his proposed debarment by written notice sent not less than 30 days prior to the proposed effective date.
(b)
Contents of the notice.
The notice shall contain information indicating the:
(1) Effective date of the debarment;
(2) Minimum length of the debarment;
(3) Basis for the debarment;
(4) Provisions of law and regulation authorizing the debarment;
(5) Effect of the debarment;
(6) Provider's right to contest the debarment to the debarring official;
(7) Provider's right to request OPM to reduce the length of debarment, if it exceeds the minimum period required by law or this subpart; and
(8) Procedures the provider shall be required to follow to apply for reinstatement at the end of his period of debarment, and to seek a waiver of the debarment on the basis that he is the sole health care provider or the sole source of essential specialized services in a community.
(c)
Methods of sending notice.
OPM shall send the notice of proposed debarment and the final decision notice (if a contest is filed) to the provider's last known address by first class mail, or, at OPM's option, by express delivery service.
(d)
Delivery to attorney, agent, or representatives.
(1) If OPM proposes to debar an individual health care provider, it may send the notice of proposed debarment directly to the provider or to any other person designated by the provider to act as a representative in debarment proceedings.
(2) In the case of a health care provider that is an entity, OPM shall deem notice sent to any owner, partner, director, officer, registered agent for service of process, attorney, or managing employee as constituting notice to the entity.
(e)
Presumed timeframes for receipt of notice.
OPM computes timeframes associated with the delivery notices described in paragraph (c) of this section so that:
(1) When OPM sends notice by a method that provides a confirmation of receipt, OPM deems that the provider received the notice at the time indicated in the confirmation; and
(2) When OPM sends notice by a method that does not provide a confirmation of receipt, OPM deems that the provider received the notice 5 business days after it was sent.
(f)
Procedures if notice cannot be delivered.
(1) If OPM learns that a notice was undeliverable as addressed or routed, OPM shall make reasonable efforts to obtain a current and accurate address, and to resend the notice to that address, or it shall use alternative methods of sending the notice, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If a notice cannot be delivered after reasonable followup efforts as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, OPM shall presume that the provider received notice 5 days after the latest date on which a notice was sent.
(g)
Use of electronic means to transmit notice.
[Reserved]
§ 890.1007
Minimum length of mandatory debarments.
(a)
Debarment based on a conviction.
The statutory minimum period of debarment for a mandatory debarment based on a conviction is 3 years.
(b)
Debarment based on another agency's action.
A debarment based on another Federal agency's debarment, suspension, or exclusion remains in effect until the originating agency terminates its sanction.
§ 890.1008
Mandatory debarment for longer than the minimum length.
(a)
Aggravating factors.
OPM may debar a provider for longer than the 3-year minimum period for mandatory debarments if aggravating factors are
associated with the basis for the debarment. The factors OPM considers to be aggravating are:
(1) Whether the FEHBP incurred a financial loss as the result of the acts underlying the conviction, or similar acts that were not adjudicated, and the level of such loss. In determining the amount of financial loss, OPM shall not consider any amounts of restitution that a provider may have paid;
(2) Whether the sentence imposed by the court included incarceration;
(3) Whether the underlying offense(s), or similar acts not adjudicated, occurred repeatedly over a period of time, and whether there is evidence that the offense(s) was planned in advance;
(4) Whether the provider has a prior record of criminal, civil, or administrative adjudication of related offenses or similar acts; or
(5) Whether the actions underlying the conviction, or similar acts that were not adjudicated, adversely affected the physical, mental, or financial well-being of one or more covered individuals or other persons.
(b)
Mitigating factors.
If the aggravating factors justify a debarment longer than the 3 year minimum period for mandatory debarments, OPM shall also consider whether mitigating factors may justify reducing the debarment period to not less than 3 years. The factors that OPM considers to be mitigating are:
(1) Whether the conviction(s) on which the debarment is based consist entirely or primarily of misdemeanor offenses;
(2) Whether court records, including associated sentencing reports, contain an official determination that the provider had a physical, mental, or emotional condition before or during the commission of the offenses underlying the conviction that reduced his level of culpability; or
(3) Whether the provider's cooperation with Federal and/or State investigative officials resulted in criminal convictions, civil recoveries, or administrative actions against other individuals, or served as the basis for identifying program weaknesses. Restitution made by the provider for funds wrongfully, improperly, or illegally received from Federal or State programs may also be considered as a mitigating circumstance.
(c)
Maximum period of debarment.
There is no limit on the maximum period of a mandatory debarment based on a conviction.
§ 890.1009
Contesting proposed mandatory debarments.
(a)
Contesting the debarment.
Within 30 days after receiving OPM's notice of proposed mandatory debarment, a provider may submit information, documents, and written arguments in opposition to the proposed debarment. OPM's notice shall contain specific information about where and how to submit this material. If a timely contest is not filed, the proposed debarment shall become effective as stated in the notice, without further action by OPM.
(b)
Requesting a reduction of the debarment period.
If OPM proposes a mandatory debarment for a period longer than the 3-year minimum required by 5 U.S.C. 8902a(g)(3), the provider may request a reduction of the debarment period to not less than 3 years, without contesting the debarment itself.
(c)
Personal appearance before the debarring official.
In addition to providing written material, the provider may appear before the debarring official personally or through a representative to present oral arguments in support of his contest. OPM's notice shall contain specific information about arranging an in-person presentation.
§ 890.1010
Debarring official's decision of contest.
(a)
Prior adjudication is dispositive.
Evidence indicating that a provider was formally adjudicated for a violation of any type set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(b) fully satisfies the standard of proof for a mandatory debarment.
(b)
Debarring official's decision.
The debarring official shall issue a written decision, based on the entire administrative record, within 30 days after the record closes to receipt of information. The debarring official may extend this decision period for good cause.
(c)
No further administrative proceedings.
The debarring official's decisions regarding mandatory debarment and the period of debarment are final
and are not subject to further administrative review.

# Permissive Debarments
§ 890.1011
Bases for permissive debarments.
(a)
Licensure actions.
OPM may debar a health care provider to whom the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(1) apply. OPM may take this action even if the provider retains current and valid professional licensure in another State(s).
(b)
Ownership or control interests.
OPM may debar a health care provider based on ownership or control of or by a debarred provider, as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(2) and (3).
(c)
False, deceptive, or wrongful claims practices.
OPM may debar a provider who commits claims-related violations as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(4) and (5) and 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(1) and (2).
(d)
Failure to furnish required information.
OPM may debar a provider who knowingly fails to provide information requested by an FEHBP carrier or OPM, as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(3).
§ 890.1012
Time limits for OPM to initiate permissive debarments.
(a)
Licensure cases.
If the basis for the proposed debarment is a licensure action, OPM shall send the provider a notice of proposed debarment within 6 years of the effective date of the State licensing authority's revocation, suspension, restriction, or nonrenewal action, or the date on which the provider surrendered his license to the State authority.
(b)
Ownership or control.
If the basis for the proposed debarment is ownership or control of an entity by a sanctioned person, or ownership or control of a sanctioned entity by a person who knew or should have known of the basis for the entity's sanction, OPM shall send a notice of proposed debarment within 6 years of the effective date of the sanction on which the proposed debarment is based.
(c)
False, deceptive, or wrongful claims practices.
If the basis for the proposed debarment involves a claim filed with a FEHBP carrier, OPM shall send the provider a notice of proposed debarment within 6 years of the date he presented the claim for payment to the covered person's FEHBP carrier.
(d)
Failure to furnish requested information.
If the basis for the proposed debarment involves a provider's failure to furnish information requested by OPM or an FEHBP carrier, OPM shall send the notice of proposed debarment within 6 years of the date on which the carrier or OPM requested the provider to furnish the information in question.
§ 890.1013
Deciding whether to propose a permissive debarment.
(a)
Review factors.
The factors OPM shall consider in deciding whether to propose a provider's debarment under a permissive debarment authority are:
(1) The nature of any claims involved in the basis for the proposed debarment and the circumstances under which they were presented to FEHBP carriers;
(2) The improper conduct involved in the basis for the proposed debarment, and the provider's degree of culpability and history of prior offenses;
(3) The extent to which the provider poses or may pose a risk to the health and safety of FEHBP-covered individuals or to the integrity of FEHBP transactions; and
(4) Other factors specifically relevant to the provider's debarment that shall be considered in the interests of fairness.
(b)
Absence of a factor.
The absence of a factor shall be considered neutral, and shall have no effect on OPM's decision.
(c)
Specialized review in certain cases.
In determining whether to propose debarment under 5 U.S.C 8902a(c)(4) for providing items or services substantially in excess of the needs of a covered individual or for providing items or services that fail to meet professionally-recognized quality standards, OPM shall obtain the input of trained reviewers, based on written medical protocols developed by physicians. If OPM cannot reach a decision on this basis, it shall consult with a physician in an appropriate specialty area.
§ 890.1014
Notice of proposed permissive debarment.
Notice of a proposed permissive debarment shall contain the information set forth in § 890.1006.
§ 890.1015
Minimum and maximum length of permissive debarments.
(a)
No mandatory minimum or upper limit on length of permissive debarment.
There is neither a mandatory minimum debarment period nor a limitation on the maximum length of a debarment under any permissive debarment authority.
(b)
Debarring official's process in setting period of permissive debarment.
The debarring official shall set the period of each debarment issued under a permissive debarment authority after considering the factors set forth in § 890.1016 and the factors set forth in the applicable section from among §§ 890.1017 through 890.1021.
§ 890.1016
Aggravating and mitigating factors used to determine the length of permissive debarments.
(a)
Aggravating factors.
The presence of aggravating circumstances may support an OPM determination to increase the length of a debarment beyond the nominal periods set forth in §§ 890.1017 through 890.1021. The factors that OPM considers as aggravating are:
(1) Whether the provider's actions underlying the basis for the debarment, or similar acts, had an adverse impact on the physical or mental health or well-being of one or more FEHBP-covered individuals or other persons.
(2) Whether the provider has a documented history of prior criminal wrongdoing; civil violations related to health care items or services; improper conduct; or administrative violations addressed by a Federal or State agency. OPM may consider matters involving violence, patient abuse, drug abuse, or controlled substances convictions or violations to be particularly serious.
(3) Whether the provider's actions underlying the basis for the debarment, or similar acts, resulted in financial loss to the FEHBP, FEHBP-covered individuals, or other persons. In determining whether, or to what extent, a financial loss occurred, OPM shall not consider any amounts of restitution that the provider may have paid.
(4) Whether the provider's false, wrongful, or improper claims to FEHBP carriers were numerous, submitted over a prolonged period of time, or part of an on-going pattern of wrongful acts.
(5) Whether the provider was specifically aware of or directly responsible for the acts constituting the basis for the debarment.
(6) Whether the provider attempted to obstruct, hinder, or impede official inquiries into the wrongful conduct underlying the debarment.
(b)
Mitigating factors.
The presence of mitigating circumstances may support an OPM determination to shorten the length of a debarment below the nominal periods set forth in §§ 890.1017 through 890.1021, respectively. The factors that OPM considers as mitigating are:
(1) Whether the provider's cooperation with Federal, State, or local authorities resulted in criminal convictions, civil recoveries, or administrative actions against other violators, or served as the basis for official determinations of program weaknesses or vulnerabilities. Restitution that the provider made for funds wrongfully, improperly, or illegally received from Federal or State programs may also be considered as a mitigating factor.
(2) Whether official records of judicial proceedings or the proceedings of State licensing authorities contain a formal determination that the provider had a physical, mental, or emotional condition that reduced his level of culpability before or during the period in which he committed the violations in question.
(c)
Absence of factors.
The absence of aggravating or mitigating factors shall have no effect to either increase or lower the nominal period of debarment.
§ 890.1017
Determining length of debarment based on revocation or suspension of a provider's professional licensure.
(a)
Indefinite term of debarment.
Subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, debarment under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(1) shall be for an indefinite period coinciding with the
period during which the provider's license is revoked, suspended, restricted, surrendered, or otherwise not in effect in the State whose action formed the basis for OPM's debarment.
(b)
Aggravating circumstances.
If any of the aggravating circumstances set forth in § 890.1016 apply, OPM may debar the provider for an additional period beyond the duration of the licensure revocation or suspension.
§ 890.1018
Determining length of debarment for an entity owned or controlled by a sanctioned provider.
OPM shall determine the length of debarments of entities under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(2) based on the type of violation committed by the person with an ownership or control interest. The types of violations actionable under this provision are:
(a)
Owner/controller's debarment.
The debarment of an entity based on debarment of an individual with an ownership or control interest shall be for a period concurrent with the individual's debarment. If any aggravating or mitigating circumstances set forth in § 890.1016 apply solely to the entity and were not considered in setting the period of the individual's debarment, OPM may debar the entity for a period longer or shorter than the individual's debarment.
(b)
Owner/controller's conviction.
The debarment of an entity based on the criminal conviction of a person with an ownership or control interest for an offense listed in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(b)(1)-(4) shall be for a period of not less than 3 years, subject to adjustment for any aggravating or mitigating circumstances set forth in § 890.1016 applying solely to the entity.
(c)
Owner/controller's civil monetary penalty.
The debarment of an entity based on a civil monetary penalty imposed on a person with an ownership or control interest, shall be for a period of not less than 3 years, subject to adjustment for any aggravating or mitigating circumstances set forth in § 890.1016 applying solely to the entity.
§ 890.1019
Determining length of debarment based on ownership or control of a sanctioned entity.
OPM shall determine the length of debarments of individual providers under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(3) based on the type of violation committed by the sanctioned entity owned or controlled by the person with an ownership or control interest. The types of violations actionable under this provision are:
(a)
Entity's debarment.
If a provider's debarment is based on his ownership or control of a debarred entity, the debarment shall be concurrent with the entity's debarment. If any of the aggravating or mitigating circumstances identified in § 890.1016 applies directly to the provider that owns or controls the debarred entity and was not considered in setting the period of the entity's debarment, OPM may debar the provider for a period longer or shorter, respectively, than the entity's debarment.
(b)
Entity's conviction.
If a provider's debarment is based on the criminal conviction of an entity he owns or controls for an offense listed in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(b)(1)-(4), OPM shall debar the provider for a period of no less than 3 years, subject to adjustment for any aggravating or mitigating circumstances identified in § 890.1016 that apply to the provider as an individual.
(c)
Entity's civil monetary penalty.
If a provider's debarment is based on a civil monetary penalty imposed on an entity he owns or controls, OPM shall debar him for 3 years, subject to adjustment on the basis of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances listed in § 890.1016 that apply to the provider as an individual.
§ 890.1020
Determining length of debarment based on false, wrongful, or deceptive claims.
Debarments under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(c)(4) and (5) and 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(1) and (2) shall be for a period of 3 years, subject to adjustment based on the aggravating and mitigating factors listed in § 890.1016.
§ 890.1021
Determining length of debarment based on failure to furnish information needed to resolve claims.
Debarments under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(3) shall be for a period of 3 years, subject to adjustment based on the aggravating and mitigating factors listed in § 890.1016.
§ 890.1022
Contesting proposed permissive debarments.
(a)
Right to contest a proposed debarment.
A provider proposed for debarment under a permissive debarment authority may challenge the debarment by filing a written contest with the debarring official during the 30-day notice period indicated in the notice of proposed debarment. In the absence of a timely contest, the debarment shall become effective as stated in the notice, without further action by OPM.
(b)
Challenging the length of a proposed debarment.
A provider may contest the length of the proposed debarment, while not challenging the debarment itself, or may contest both the length of a debarment and the debarment itself in the same contest.
§ 890.1023
Information considered in deciding a contest.
(a)
Documents and oral and written arguments.
A provider may submit documents and written arguments in opposition to the proposed debarment and/or the length of the proposed debarment, and may appear personally or through a representative before the debarring official to provide other relevant information.
(b)
Specific factual basis for contesting the proposed debarment.
A provider's oral and written arguments shall identify the specific facts that contradict the basis for the proposed debarment as stated in the notice of proposed debarment. A general or unsupported denial of the basis for debarment does not raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment, and the debarring official shall not give such a denial any probative weight.
(c)
Mandatory disclosures.
Regardless of the basis for the contest, providers are required to disclose certain types of background information, in addition to any other information submitted during the contest. Failure to provide such information completely and accurately may be a basis for OPM to initiate further legal or administrative action against the provider. The specific items of information that shall be furnished to OPM are:
(1) Any existing, proposed, or prior exclusion, debarment, penalty, or other sanction imposed on the provider by a Federal, State, or local government agency, including any administrative agreement that purports to affect only a single agency;
(2) Any criminal or civil legal proceeding not referenced in the notice of proposed debarment that arose from facts relevant to the basis for debarment stated in the notice; and
(3) Any entity in which the provider has a control interest, as that term is defined in § 890.1003.
§ 890.1024
Standard and burden of proof for deciding contests.
OPM shall demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence in the administrative record as a whole, that a provider has committed a sanctionable violation.
§ 890.1025
Cases where additional fact-finding is not required.
In each contest, the debarring official shall determine whether a further fact-finding proceeding is required in addition to presentation of arguments, documents, and information. An additional fact-finding proceeding is not required when:
(a)
Prior adjudication.
The proposed debarment is based on facts determined in a prior due process adjudication. Examples of prior due process proceedings include, but are not limited to, the adjudication procedures associated with:
(1) Licensure revocation, suspension, restriction, or nonrenewal by a State licensing authority;
(2) Debarment, exclusion, suspension, civil monetary penalties, or similar legal or administrative adjudications by Federal, State, or local agencies;
(3) A criminal conviction or civil judgment; or
(4) An action by a provider that constitutes a waiver of his right to a due process adjudication, such as surrender
of professional license during the pendency of a disciplinary hearing, entering a guilty plea or confession of judgment in a judicial proceeding, or signing a settlement agreement stipulating facts that constitute a sanctionable violation.
(b)
Material facts not in dispute.
The provider's contest does not identify a bona fide dispute concerning facts material to the basis for the proposed debarment.
§ 890.1026
Procedures if a fact-finding proceeding is not required.
(a)
Debarring official's procedures.
If a fact-finding proceeding is not required, the debarring official shall issue a final decision of a provider's contest within 30 days after the record closes for submitting evidence, arguments, and information as part of the contest. The debarring official may extend this timeframe for good cause.
(b)
No further administrative review available.
There are no further OPM administrative proceedings after the presiding official's final decision. A provider adversely affected by the decision may appeal under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(h)(2) to the appropriate U.S. district court.
§ 890.1027
Cases where an additional fact-finding proceeding is required.
(a)
Criteria for holding fact-finding proceeding.
The debarring official shall request another OPM official (“presiding official”) to hold an additional fact-finding proceeding if:
(1) Facts material to the proposed debarment have not been adjudicated in a prior due process proceeding; and
(2) These facts are genuinely in dispute, based on the entire administrative record available to the debarring official.
(b)
Qualification to serve as presiding official.
The presiding official is designated by the OPM Director or another OPM official authorized by the Director to make such designations. The presiding official shall be a senior official who is qualified to conduct informal adjudicative proceedings and who has had no previous contact with the proposed debarment or the contest.
(c)
Effect on contest.
The debarring official shall defer a final decision on the contest pending the results of the fact-finding proceeding.
§ 890.1028
Conducting a fact-finding proceeding.
(a)
Informal proceeding.
The presiding official may conduct the fact-finding proceedings as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness. Formal rules of evidence or procedure do not apply to these proceedings.
(b)
Proceeding limited to disputed material facts.
The presiding official shall consider only the genuinely disputed facts identified by the debarring official as material to the basis for the debarment. Matters that have been previously adjudicated or that are not in bona fide dispute within the administrative record shall not be considered by presiding official.
(c)
Provider's right to present information, evidence, and arguments.
A provider may appear before the presiding official with counsel, submit oral and written arguments and documentary evidence, present witnesses on his own behalf, question any witnesses testifying in support of the debarment, and challenge the accuracy of any other evidence that the agency offers as a basis for the debarment.
(d)
Record of proceedings.
The presiding official shall make an audio recording of the proceedings and shall provide a copy to the provider at no charge. If the provider wishes to have a transcribed record, OPM shall arrange for production of one which may be purchased at cost.
(e)
Presiding official's findings.
The presiding official shall resolve all of the disputed facts identified by the debarring official, on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence contained within the entire administrative record. The presiding official shall issue a written report of all findings of fact to the debarring official within 30 days after the record of the fact-finding proceeding closes.
§ 890.1029
Deciding a contest after a fact-finding proceeding.
(a)
Findings shall be accepted.
The debarring official shall accept the presiding official's findings of fact, unless
they are arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous. If the debarring official concludes that the factual findings are not acceptable, they may be remanded to the presiding official for additional proceedings in accordance with § 890.1028.
(b)
Timeframe for final decision.
The debarring official shall issue a final written decision on a contest within 30 days after receiving the presiding official's findings. The debarring official may extend this decision period for good cause.
(c)
Debarring official's final decision.
(1) The debarring official shall observe the evidentiary standards and burdens of proof stated in § 890.1024 in reaching a final decision.
(2) In any case where a final decision is made to debar a provider, the debarring official has the discretion to set the period of debarment, subject to the factors identified in §§ 890.1016 through 1021.
(3) The debarring official has the discretion to decide not to impose debarment in any case involving a permissive debarment authority.
(d)
No further administrative proceedings.
No further administrative proceedings shall be conducted after the debarring official's final decision in a contest involving an additional fact-finding hearing. A provider adversely affected by the debarring official's final decision in a contested case may appeal under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(h)(2) to the appropriate U. S. district court.

# Suspension
§ 890.1030
Effect of a suspension.
(a)
Temporary action pending formal proceedings.
Suspension is a temporary action pending completion of an investigation or ensuing criminal, civil, or administrative proceedings.
(b)
Immediate effect.
Suspension is effective immediately upon the suspending official's decision, without prior notice to the provider.
(c)
Effect equivalent to debarment.
The effect of a suspension is the same as the effect of a debarment. A suspended provider may not receive payment from FEHBP funds for items or services furnished to FEHBP-covered persons while suspended.
§ 890.1031
Grounds for suspension.
(a)
Basis for suspension.
OPM may suspend a provider if:
(1) OPM obtains reliable evidence indicating that one of the grounds for suspension listed in paragraph (b) of this section applies to the provider; and
(2) The suspending official determines under paragraph (c) of this section that immediate action to suspend the provider is necessary to protect the health and safety of persons covered by FEHBP.
(b)
Grounds for suspension.
Evidence constituting grounds for a suspension may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Indictment or conviction of a provider for a criminal offense that is a basis for mandatory debarment under this subpart;
(2) Indictment or conviction of a provider for a criminal offense that reflects a risk to the health, safety, or well-being of FEHBP-covered individuals;
(3) Other credible evidence indicating, in the judgment of the suspending official, that a provider has committed a violation that would warrant debarment under this subpart. This may include, but is not limited to:
(i) Civil judgments;
(ii) Notice that a Federal, State, or local government agency has debarred, suspended, or excluded a provider from participating in a program or revoked or declined to renew a professional license; or
(iii) Other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual or legal matters.
(c)
Determining need for immediate action.
Suspension is intended to protect the public interest, including the health and safety of covered individuals or the integrity of FEHBP funds. The suspending official has wide discretion to decide whether to suspend a provider. A specific finding of immediacy or necessity is not required to issue a suspension. The suspending official may draw reasonable inferences from the nature of the alleged misconduct and from a provider's actual or potential transactions with the FEHBP.
§ 890.1032
Length of suspension.
(a)
Initial period.
The initial term of all suspensions shall be an indefinite period not to exceed 12 months.
(b)
Formal legal proceedings not initiated.
If formal legal or administrative proceedings have not begun against a provider within 12 months after the effective date of his suspension, the suspending official may:
(1) Terminate the suspension; or
(2) If requested by the Department of Justice, the cognizant United States Attorney's Office, or other responsible Federal, State, or local prosecuting official, extend the suspension for an additional period, not to exceed 6 months.
(c)
Formal proceedings initiated.
If formal criminal, civil, or administrative proceedings are initiated against a suspended provider, the suspension may continue indefinitely, pending the outcome of those proceedings.
(d)
Terminating the suspension.
The suspending official may terminate a suspension at any time, and shall terminate it after 18 months, unless formal proceedings have begun within that period.
§ 890.1033
Notice of suspension.
(a)
Written notice.
OPM shall send written notice of suspension according to the procedures and methods described in § 890.1006(c)-(f).
(b)
Contents of notice.
The suspension notice shall contain information indicating that:
(1) The provider has been suspended, effective on the date of the notice;
(2) The initial period of the suspension;
(3) The basis for the suspension;
(4) The provisions of law and regulation authorizing the suspension;
(5) The effect of the suspension; and
(6) The provider's rights to contest the suspension.
§ 890.1034
Counting a period of suspension as part of a subsequent debarment.
The debarring official may consider the provider's contiguous period of suspension when determining the length of a debarment.
§ 890.1035
Provider contests of suspensions.
(a)
Filing a contest of the suspension.
A provider may challenge a suspension by filing a contest, in writing, with the suspending official not later than 30 days after receiving notice of suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect during the contest, unless rescinded by the suspending official.
(b)
Informal proceeding.
The suspending official shall use informal, flexible procedures to conduct the contest. Formal rules of evidence and procedure do not apply to this proceeding.
§ 890.1036
Information considered in deciding a contest.
(a)
Presenting information and arguments to the suspending official.
A provider may submit documents and written arguments in opposition to the suspension, and may appear personally, or through a representative, before the suspending official to provide any other relevant information.
(b)
Specific factual basis for contesting the suspension.
The provider shall identify specific facts that contradict the basis for the suspension as stated in the suspension notice. A general denial of the basis for suspension does not raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, and the suspending official shall not give such a denial any probative weight.
(c)
Mandatory disclosures.
Any provider contesting a suspension shall disclose the items of information set forth in § 890.1023(c). Failure to provide such information completely and accurately may be a basis for OPM to initiate further legal or administrative action against the provider.
§ 890.1037
Cases where additional fact-finding is not required.
The suspending official may decide a contest without an additional fact-finding process if:
(a)
Previously adjudicated facts.
The suspension is based on an indictment or on facts determined by a prior adjudication in which the provider was afforded due process rights. Examples of due process proceedings include, but are not limited to, the adjudication procedures associated with licensure revocation, suspension, restriction, or
nonrenewal by a State licensing authority; similar administrative adjudications by Federal, State, or local agencies; a criminal conviction or civil judgment; or an action by the provider that constitutes a waiver of his right to a due process adjudication, such as surrender of professional licensure during the pendency of a disciplinary hearing, entering a guilty plea or confession of judgment in a judicial proceeding, or signing a settlement agreement stipulating facts that constitute a sanctionable violation. Neither the existence of the prior adjudication nor any of the underlying circumstances are considered to be subject to genuine factual dispute as part of the suspension proceeding.
(b)
Advisory by law enforcement officials.
OPM is advised by the Department of Justice, the appropriate U.S. Attorney's Office, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office that proceedings before a presiding official would prejudice the substantial interests of the Government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension.
(c)
No bona fide dispute of material facts.
The information, arguments, and documents submitted to the suspending official do not establish that there is a
bona fide
factual dispute regarding facts material to the suspension.
§ 890.1038
Deciding a contest without additional fact-finding.
(a)
Written decision.
The suspending official shall issue a written decision on the contest within 30 days after the record closes for submitting evidence, arguments, and information. The suspending official may extend this timeframe for good cause.
(b)
No further administrative review available.
The suspending official's decision is final and is not subject to further administrative review.
§ 890.1039
Cases where additional fact-finding is required.
(a)
Criteria for holding fact-finding proceeding.
The debarring official shall request another OPM official (“presiding official”) to hold an additional fact-finding proceeding if:
(1) Facts material to the suspension have not been adjudicated in a prior due process proceeding; and
(2) These facts are genuinely in dispute, based on the entire administrative record available to the debarring official.
(b)
Qualification to serve as presiding official.
The presiding official is designated by the OPM Director or another OPM official authorized by the Director to make such designations. The presiding official shall be a senior official who is qualified to conduct informal adjudicative proceedings and who has had no previous contact with the suspension or the contest.
(c)
Effect on contest.
The suspending official shall defer a final decision on the contest pending the results of the fact-finding proceeding.
§ 890.1040
Conducting a fact-finding proceeding.
(a)
Informal proceeding.
The presiding official may conduct the fact-finding proceedings as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness. Specific rules of evidence or procedure do not apply to these proceedings.
(b)
Proceeding limited to disputed material facts.
The presiding official shall consider only the genuinely disputed facts identified by the suspending official as relevant to the basis for the suspension. Matters that have been previously adjudicated or which are not in bona fide dispute within the record shall not be considered by the presiding official.
(c)
Right to present information, evidence, and arguments.
A provider may appear before the presiding official with counsel, submit oral and written arguments and documentary evidence, present witnesses, question any witnesses testifying in support of the suspension, and challenge the accuracy of any other evidence that the agency offers as a basis for the suspension.
(d)
Record of proceedings.
The presiding official shall make an audio recording of the proceedings and shall provide a copy to the provider at no charge. If the provider wishes to have a transcribed record, OPM shall arrange for production of one which may be purchased at cost.
(e)
Presiding official's findings.
The presiding official shall resolve all of the disputed facts identified by the suspending official, on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence in the entire administrative record. Within 30 days after the record of the proceeding closes, the presiding official shall issue a written report of all findings of fact to the suspending official.
§ 890.1041
Deciding a contest after a fact-finding proceeding.
(a)
Presiding official's findings shall be accepted.
The suspending official shall accept the presiding official's findings, unless they are arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
(b)
Suspending official's decision.
Within 30 days after receiving the presiding official's report, the suspending official shall issue a final written decision that either sustains, modifies, or terminates the suspension. The suspending official may extend this period for good cause.
(c)
Effect on subsequent debarment or suspension proceedings.
A decision by the suspending official to modify or terminate a suspension shall not prevent OPM from subsequently debarring the same provider, or any other Federal agency from either suspending or debarring the provider, based on the same facts.

# Effect of Debarment
§ 890.1042
Effective dates of debarments.
(a)
Minimum notice period.
A debarment shall take effect not sooner than 30 days after the date of OPM's notice of proposed debarment, unless the debarring official specifically determines that the health or safety of covered individuals or the integrity of the FEHBP warrants an earlier effective date. In such a situation, the notice shall specifically inform the provider that the debarring official decided to shorten or eliminate the 30-day notice period.
(b)
Uncontested debarments.
If a provider does not file a contest within the 30-day notice period, the proposed debarment shall take effect on the date stated in the notice of proposed debarment, without further procedures, actions, or notice by OPM.
(c)
Contested debarments and requests for reducing the period of debarment.
If a provider files a contest within the 30-day notice period, the proposed debarment shall not go into effect until the debarring official issues a final written decision, unless the health or safety of covered individuals or the integrity of the FEHBP requires the debarment to be effective while the contest is pending.
§ 890.1043
Effect of debarment on a provider.
(a)
FEHBP payments prohibited.
A debarred provider is not eligible to receive payment, directly or indirectly, from FEHBP funds for items or services furnished to a covered individual on or after the effective date of the debarment. Also, a provider shall not accept an assignment of a claim for items or services furnished to a covered individual during the period of debarment. These restrictions shall remain in effect until the provider is reinstated by OPM.
(b)
Governmentwide effect.
Debarment precludes a provider from participating in all other Federal agencies' procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities, as required by section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-355). Other agencies may grant a waiver or exception under their own regulations, to permit a provider to participate in their programs, notwithstanding the OPM debarment.
(c)
Civil or criminal liability.
A provider may be subject to civil monetary penalties under this subpart or criminal liability under other Federal statutes for knowingly filing claims, causing claims to be filed, or accepting payment from FEHBP carriers for items or services furnished to a covered individual during a period of debarment .

# Notifying Outside Parties About Debarment and Suspension Actions
§ 890.1044
Entities notified of OPM-issued debarments and suspensions.
When OPM debars or suspends a provider under this subpart, OPM shall notify:
(a) All FEHBP carriers;
(b) The General Services Administration, for publication in the comprehensive Governmentwide list of Federal agency exclusions;
(c) Other Federal agencies that administer health care or health benefits programs; and
(d) State and local agencies, authorities, boards, or other organizations with health care licensing or certification responsibilities.
§ 890.1045
Informing persons covered by FEHBP about debarment or suspension of their provider.
FEHBP carriers are required to notify covered individuals who have obtained items or services from a debarred or suspended provider within one year of the date of the debarment or suspension of:
(a) The existence of the provider's debarment or suspension;
(b) The minimum period remaining in the provider's period of debarment; and
(c) The requirement that OPM terminate the debarment or suspension before FEHBP funds can be paid for items or services the provider furnishes to covered individuals.

# Exceptions to the Effect of Debarments
§ 890.1046
Effect of debarment or suspension on payments for services furnished in emergency situations.
A debarred or suspended health care provider may receive FEHBP funds paid for items or services furnished on an emergency basis if the FEHBP carrier serving the covered individual determines that:
(a) The provider's treatment was essential to the health and safety of the covered individual; and
(b) No other source of equivalent treatment was reasonably available.
[69 FR 9920, Mar. 3, 2004]
§ 890.1047
Special rules for institutional providers.
(a)
Covered individual admitted before debarment or suspension.
If a covered person is admitted as an inpatient before the effective date of an institutional provider's debarment or suspension, that provider may continue to receive payment of FEHBP funds for inpatient institutional services until the covered person is released or transferred, unless the debarring or suspending official terminates payments under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Health and safety of covered individuals.
If the debarring or suspending official determines that the health and safety of covered persons would be at risk if they remain in a debarred or suspended institution, OPM may terminate FEHBP payments at any time.
(c)
Notice of payment limitations.
If OPM limits any payment under paragraph (b) of this section, it must immediately send written notice of its action to the institutional provider.
(d)
Finality of debarring or suspending official's decision.
The debarring or suspending official's decision to limit or deny payments under paragraph (b) of this section is not subject to administrative review or reconsideration.
[69 FR 9920, Mar. 3, 2004]
§ 890.1048
Waiver of debarment for a provider that is the sole source of health care services in a community.
(a)
Application required.
A provider may apply for a limited waiver of debarment at any time after receiving OPM's notice of proposed debarment. Suspended providers are not eligible to request a waiver of suspension.
(b)
Criteria for granting waiver.
To receive a waiver, a provider shall clearly demonstrate that:
(1) The provider is the
sole community provider
or the
sole source of essential specialized services in a community;
(2) A limited waiver of debarment would be in the best interests of covered individuals in the defined service area;
(3) There are reasonable assurances that the actions which formed the basis for the debarment shall not recur; and
(4) There is no basis under this subpart for continuing the debarment.
(c)
Waiver applies only in the defined service area.
A limited waiver applies only to items or services provided within the defined service area where a provider is the
sole community provider
or
sole source of essential specialized services.
(d)
Governmentwide effect continues.
A limited waiver applies only to a provider's FEHBP transactions. Even if OPM waives a debarment for FEHBP purposes, the governmentwide effect under section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-355) continues for all other Federal agencies' procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
(e)
Waiver rescinded if circumstances change.
OPM shall rescind the limited waiver when any of its underlying bases no longer apply. If OPM rescinds the limited waiver, the provider's debarment shall resume full effect for all FEHBP transactions. Events warranting rescission include, but are not limited to:
(1) The provider ceases to furnish items or services in the defined service area;
(2) Another provider begins to furnish equivalent items or services in the defined service area, so that the provider who received a waiver is no longer the sole provider or sole source; or
(3) The actions that formed the basis for the provider's debarment, or similar acts, recur.
(f)
Effect on period of debarment.
The minimum period of debarment is established when the debarment is initially imposed. A subsequent decision to grant, deny, or rescind a limited waiver shall not change that period.
(g)
Application is necessary for reinstatement.
A provider who has received a limited waiver shall apply for reinstatement at the end of the debarment period, even if a limited waiver is in effect when the debarment expires.
(h)
Finality of debarring official's decision.
The debarring official's decision to grant or deny a limited waiver is final and not subject to further administrative review or reconsideration.

# Special Exceptions To Protect Covered Persons
§ 890.1049
Claims for non-emergency items or services furnished by a debarred or suspended provider.
(a)
Covered individual unaware of debarment or suspension.
FEHBP funds may be paid for items or services furnished by a debarred or suspended provider if, at the time the items or services were furnished, the covered individual did not know, and could not reasonably be expected to have known, that the provider was debarred or suspended. This provision is intended solely to protect the interests of FEHBP-covered persons who obtain services from a debarred or suspended provider in good faith and without knowledge that the provider has been sanctioned. It does not authorize debarred or suspended providers to submit claims for payment to FEHBP carriers.
(b)
Notice sent by carrier.
When paying a claim under the authority of paragraph (a) of this section, an FEHBP carrier must send a written notice to the covered individual, stating:
(1) That the provider is debarred or suspended and is prohibited from receiving payment of FEHBP funds for items or services furnished after the effective date of the debarment or suspension;
(2) That claims may not be paid for items or services furnished by the debarred or suspended provider after the covered individual is informed of the debarment or suspension;
(3) That the current claim is being paid as a legally-authorized exception to the effect of the debarment or suspension in order to protect covered individuals who obtain items or services without knowledge of their provider's debarment or suspension;
(4) That FEHBP carriers are required to deny payment of any claim for items or services rendered by a debarred or suspended provider 15 days or longer after the date of the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the covered individual had no knowledge of the provider's debarment or suspension when the items or services were rendered;
(5) The minimum period remaining in the provider's debarment or suspension; and
(6) That FEHBP funds cannot otherwise be paid to the provider until OPM terminates the debarment or suspension.
[69 FR 9920, Mar. 3, 2004]
§ 890.1050
Exception to a provider's debarment for an individual enrollee.
(a)
Request by a covered individual.
Any individual enrolled in FEHBP may submit a request through their FEHBP carrier for continued payment of items or services furnished by a debarred provider to any person covered under the enrollment. Requests shall not be accepted for continued payments to suspended providers.
(b)
OPM action on the request.
OPM shall consider the recommendation of the FEHBP carrier before acting on the request. To be approved, the request shall demonstrate that:
(1) Interrupting an existing, ongoing course of treatment by the provider would have a detrimental effect on the covered individual's health or safety; or
(2) The covered individual does not have access to an alternative source of the same or equivalent health care items or services within a reasonably accessible service area.
(c)
Scope of the exception.
An approved exception applies only to the covered individual(s) who requested it, or on whose behalf it was requested. The governmentwide effect of the provider's debarment under section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (Pub. L. 103-355) is not altered by an exception.
(d)
Provider requests not allowed.
OPM shall not consider an exception request submitted by a provider on behalf of a covered individual.
(e)
Debarring official's decision is final.
The debarring official's decision on an exception request is not subject to further administrative review or reconsideration.

# Reinstatement
§ 890.1051
Applying for reinstatement when period of debarment expires.
(a)
Application required.
Reinstatement is not automatic when the minimum period of a provider's debarment expires. The provider shall apply in writing to OPM, supplying specific information about the reinstatement criteria outlined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Reinstatement date.
A debarred provider may submit a reinstatement application not earlier than 60 days before the nominal expiration date of the debarment. However, in no case shall OPM reinstate a provider before the minimum period of debarment expires.
(c)
Reinstatement criteria.
To be approved, the provider's reinstatement application shall clearly demonstrate that:
(1) There are reasonable assurances that the actions resulting in the provider's debarment have not recurred and will not recur;
(2) There is no basis under this subpart for continuing the provider's debarment; and
(3) There is no pending criminal, civil, or administrative action that would subject the provider to debarment by OPM.
(d)
Written notice of OPM action.
OPM shall inform the provider in writing of its decision regarding the reinstatement application.
(e)
Limitation on reapplication.
If OPM denies a provider's reinstatement application, the provider is not eligible to reapply for 1 year after the date of the denial.
§ 890.1052
Reinstatements without application.
OPM shall reinstate a provider without a reinstatement application if:
(a)
Conviction reversed.
The conviction on which the provider's debarment was based is reversed or vacated by a final decision of the highest appeals court with jurisdiction over the case; and the prosecutorial authority with jurisdiction over the case has declined to retry it, or the deadline for retrial has expired without action by the prosecutor.
(b)
Sanction terminated.
A sanction imposed by another Federal agency, on which the debarment was based, is terminated by that agency.
(c)
Court order.
A Federal court orders OPM to stay, rescind, or terminate a provider's debarment.
(d)
Written notice.
When reinstating a provider without an application, OPM shall send the provider written notice of the basis and effective date of his reinstatement.
§ 890.1053
Table of procedures and effective dates for reinstatements.
The procedures and effective dates for reinstatements under this subpart are:
Basis for debarment
Application required?
Effective date
Period of debarment expires
Yes
After debarment expires.
Conviction reversed on final appeal/no retrial possible
No
Retroactive (start of debarment).
Other agency sanction ends
No
Ending date of sanction.
Court orders reinstatement
No
Retroactive (start of debarment).
§ 890.1054
Agencies and entities to be notified of reinstatements.
OPM shall inform the FEHBP carriers, Government agencies and other organizations that were originally notified of a provider's debarment when a provider is reinstated under § 890.1051 or § 890.1052.
§ 890.1055
Contesting a denial of reinstatement.
(a)
Obtaining reconsideration of the initial decision.
A provider may contest OPM's decision to deny a reinstatement application by submitting documents and written arguments to the debarring official within 30 days of receiving the notice described in § 890.1051(d). In addition, the provider may request to appear in person to present oral arguments to the debarring official. The provider may be accompanied by counsel when making a personal appearance.
(b)
Debarring official's final decision on reinstatement.
The debarring official shall issue a final written decision, based on the entire administrative record, within 30 days after the record closes to receipt of information. The debarring official may extend the decision period for good cause.
(c)
Finality of debarring official's decision.
The debarring official's final decision regarding a provider's reinstatement is not subject to further administrative review or reconsideration.

# Civil Monetary Penalties and Financial Assessments

# Source:
69 FR 9921, Mar. 3, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1060
Purpose and scope of civil monetary penalties and assessments.
(a)
Civil monetary penalty.
A civil monetary penalty is an amount that OPM may impose on a health care provider who commits one of the violations listed in § 890.1061. Penalties are intended to protect the integrity of FEHBP by deterring repeat violations by the same provider and by reducing the likelihood of future violations by other providers.
(b)
Assessment.
An assessment is an amount that OPM may impose on a provider, calculated by reference to the claims involved in the underlying violations. Assessments are intended to recognize monetary losses, costs, and damages sustained by OPM as the result of a provider's violations.
(c)
Definitions.
In §§ 890.1060 through 890.1072:
Penalty
means civil monetary penalty; and
Penalties and assessments
may connote the singular or plural forms of either of those terms, and may represent either the conjunctive or disjunctive sense.
(d)
Relationship to debarment and suspension.
In addition to imposing penalties and assessments, OPM may concurrently debar or suspend a provider from participating in the FEHBP on the basis of the same violations.
(e)
Relationship to other penalties provided by law.
The penalties, assessments, debarment, and suspension imposed by OPM are in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law or regulation administered by an agency of the Federal Government or any State.
§ 890.1061
Bases for penalties and assessments.
(a)
Improper claims.
OPM may impose penalties and assessments on a provider if a claim presented by that provider for payment from FEHBP funds meets the criteria set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(1).
(b)
False or misleading statements.
OPM may impose penalties and assessments on a provider who makes a false statement or misrepresentation as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902a(d)(2).
(c)
Failing to provide claims-related information.
OPM may impose penalties and assessments on a provider who knowingly fails to provide claims-related information as otherwise required by law.
§ 890.1062
Deciding whether to impose penalties and assessments.
(a)
Authority of debarring official.
The debarring official has discretionary authority to impose penalties and assessments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8902a and this subpart.
(b)
Factors to be considered.
In deciding whether to impose penalties and assessments against a provider that has committed one of the violations identified in § 890.1061, OPM must consider:
(1) The number and frequency of the provider's violations;
(2) The period of time over which the violations were committed;
(3) The provider's culpability for the specific conduct underlying the violations;
(4) The nature of any claims involved in the violations and the circumstances under which the claims were presented to FEHBP carriers;
(5) The provider's history of prior offenses or improper conduct, including any actions that could have constituted a basis for a suspension, debarment, penalty, or assessment by any Federal or State agency, whether or not any sanction was actually imposed;
(6) The monetary amount of any damages, losses, and costs, as described in § 890.1064(c), attributable to the provider's violations; and
(7) Such other factors as justice may require.
(c)
Additional factors when penalty or assessment is based on provisions of § 890.1061(b) or (c).
In the case of violations involving false or misleading statements or the failure to provide claims-related information, OPM must also consider:
(1) The nature and circumstances of the provider's failure to properly report information; and
(2) The materiality and significance of the false statements or misrepresentations the provider made or caused to be made, or the information that the provider knowingly did not report.
§ 890.1063
Maximum amounts of penalties and assessments.
OPM may impose penalties and assessments in amounts not to exceed those set forth in U.S.C. 8902a(d).
§ 890.1064
Determining the amounts of penalties and assessments to be imposed on a provider.
(a)
Authority of debarring official.
The debarring official has discretionary authority to set the amounts of penalties and assessments in accordance with law and this subpart.
(b)
Factors considered in determining amounts of penalties and assessments.
In determining the amounts of penalties and assessments to impose on a provider, the debarring official must consider:
(1) The Government's interests in being fully compensated for all damages, losses, and costs associated with the provider's violations, including:
(i) Amounts wrongfully paid from FEHBP funds as the result of the provider's violations and interest on those amounts, at rates determined by the Department of the Treasury;
(ii) All costs incurred by OPM in investigating a provider's sanctionable misconduct; and
(iii) All costs incurred in OPM's administrative review of the case, including every phase of the administrative sanctions processes described by this subpart;
(2) The Government's interests in deterring future misconduct by health care providers;
(3) The provider's personal financial situation, or, in the case of an entity, the entity's financial situation;
(4) All of the factors set forth in § 890.1062(b) and (c); and
(5) The presence of aggravating or less serious circumstances, as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(7) of this section.
(c)
Aggravated and less serious circumstances.
The presence of aggravating circumstances may cause OPM to impose penalties and assessments at
a higher level within the authorized range, while less serious violations may warrant sanctions of relatively lower amounts. Paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(7) of this section provide examples of aggravated and less serious violations. These examples are illustrative only, and are not intended to represent an exhaustive list of all possible types of violations.
(1) The existence of many separate violations, or of violations committed over an extended period of time, constitutes an aggravating circumstance. OPM may consider conduct involving a small number of violations, committed either infrequently or within a brief period of time, to be less serious.
(2) Violations for which a provider had direct knowledge of the material facts (for example, submitting claims that the provider knew to contain false, inaccurate, or misleading information), or for which the provider did not cooperate with OPM's or an FEHBP carrier's investigations, constitute aggravating circumstances. OPM may consider violations where the provider did not have direct knowledge of the material facts, or in which the provider cooperated with post-violation investigative efforts, to be less serious.
(3) Violations resulting in substantial damages, losses, and costs to OPM, the FEHBP, or FEHBP-covered persons constitute aggravating circumstances. Violations producing a small or negligible overall financial impact may be considered to be less serious.
(4) A pattern of conduct reflecting numerous improper claims, high-dollar false claims, or improper claims involving several types of items or services constitutes aggravating circumstances. OPM may consider a small number of improper claims for relatively low dollar amounts to be less serious.
(5) Every violation involving any harm, or the risk of harm, to the health and safety of an FEHBP enrollee, must be considered an aggravating circumstance.
(6) Any prior violation described in § 890.1062(b)(5) constitutes an aggravating circumstance. OPM may consider repeated or multiple prior violations to represent an especially serious form of aggravating circumstances.
(7) OPM may consider other circumstances or actions to be aggravating or less serious within the context of an individual case, as the interests of justice require.
§ 890.1065
Deciding whether to suspend or debar a provider in a case that also involves penalties and assessments.
In a case where both penalties and assessments and debarment are proposed concurrently, OPM must decide the proposed debarment under the same criteria and procedures as if it had been proposed separately from penalties and assessments.
§ 890.1066
Notice of proposed penalties and assessments.
(a)
Written notice.
OPM must inform a provider of proposed penalties and assessments by written notice, sent via certified mail with return receipt requested, to the provider's last known street or post office address. OPM may, at its discretion, use an express service that furnishes a verification of delivery instead of postal mail.
(b)
Statutory limitations period.
OPM must send the notice to the provider within 6 years of the date on which the claim underlying the proposed penalties and assessments was presented to an FEHBP carrier. If the proposed penalties and assessments do not involve a claim presented for payment, OPM must send the notice within 6 years of the date of the actions on which the proposed penalties and assessments are based.
(c)
Contents of the notice.
OPM's notice must contain, at a minimum:
(1) The statement that OPM proposes to impose penalties and/or assessments against the provider;
(2) Identification of the actions, conduct, and claims that comprise the basis for the proposed penalties and assessments;
(3) The amount of the proposed penalties and assessments, and an explanation of how OPM determined those amounts;
(4) The statutory and regulatory bases for the proposed penalties and assessments; and
(5) Instructions for responding to the notice, including specific explanations regarding:
(i) The provider's right to contest the imposition and/or amounts of penalties and assessments before they are formally imposed; and
(ii) OPM's right, if the provider does not contest the proposed penalties and assessments within 30 days of the date he receives the notice, to implement them immediately without further administrative appeal or recourse.
(d)
Proposing debarment in the same notice.
OPM may propose a provider's debarment in the same notice that also proposes penalties and assessments. In this case, the notice must also provide the elements of information required to appear in a notice of proposed debarment under § 890.1006(b).
(e)
Procedures if the notice cannot be delivered.
OPM must apply the provisions of § 890.1006(f) if the notice of proposed penalties and assessments cannot be delivered as originally addressed.
(f)
Sending notice by electronic means.
[Reserved]
§ 890.1067
Provider contests of proposed penalties and assessments.
(a)
Contesting proposed sanctions.
A provider may formally contest the proposed penalties and assessments by sending a written notice to the debarring official within 30 days after receiving the notice described in § 890.1066. The debarring official must apply the administrative procedures set forth in §§ 890.1069 and 890.1070 to decide the contest.
(b)
Contesting debarments and financial sanctions concurrently.
If OPM proposes debarment and penalties and assessments in the same notice, the provider may contest both the debarment and the financial sanctions in the same proceeding. If the provider pursues a combined contest, the requirements set forth in §§ 890.1022 through 890.1024, as well as this section, apply.
(c)
Settling or compromising proposed sanctions.
The debarring official may settle or compromise proposed sanctions at any time before issuing a final decision under § 890.1070.
§ 890.1068
Effect of not contesting proposed penalties and assessments.
(a)
Proposed sanctions may be implemented immediately.
In the absence of a timely response by a provider as required in the notice described in § 890.1066, the debarring official may issue a final decision implementing the proposed financial sanctions immediately, without further procedures.
(b)
Debarring official sends notice after implementing sanctions.
Immediately upon issuing a final decision under paragraph (a), the debarring official must send the provider written notice, via certified return receipt mail or express delivery service, stating:
(1) The amount of penalties and assessments imposed;
(2) The date on which they were imposed; and
(3) The means by which the provider may pay the penalties and assessments.
(c)
No appeal rights.
A provider may not pursue a further administrative or judicial appeal of the debarring official's final decision implementing any sanctions if a timely contest was not filed in response to OPM's notice under § 890.1066.
§ 890.1069
Information the debarring official must consider in deciding a provider's contest of proposed penalties and assessments.
(a)
Documentary material and written arguments.
As part of a provider's contest, the provider must furnish a written statement of reasons why the proposed penalties and assessments should not be imposed and/or why the amounts proposed are excessive.
(b)
Mandatory disclosures.
In addition to any other information submitted during the contest, the provider must inform the debarring official in writing of:
(1) Any existing, proposed, or prior exclusion, debarment, penalty, assessment, or other sanction that was imposed by a Federal, State, or local government agency, including any administrative agreement that purports to affect only a single agency; and
(2) Any current or prior criminal or civil legal proceeding that was based on the same facts as the penalties and assessments proposed by OPM.
(c)
In-person appearance.
A provider may request a personal appearance (in person, by telephone conference, or through a representative) to provide testimony and oral arguments to the debarring official.
§ 890.1070
Deciding contests of proposed penalties and assessments.
(a)
Debarring official reviews entire administrative record.
After the provider submits the information and evidence authorized or required by § 890.1069, the debarring official shall review the entire official record to determine if the contest can be decided without additional administrative proceedings, or if an evidentiary hearing is required to resolve disputed material facts.
(b)
Previously determined facts.
Any facts relating to the basis for the proposed penalties and assessments that were determined in prior due process proceedings are binding on the debarring official in deciding the contest. “Prior due process proceedings” are those set forth in § 890.1025(a)(1) through (4).
(c)
Deciding the contest without further proceedings.
To decide the contest without further administrative proceedings, the debarring official must determine that:
(1) The preponderance of the evidence in the administrative record as a whole demonstrates that the provider committed a sanctionable violation described in § 890.1061; and
(2) The evidentiary record contains no
bona fide
dispute of any fact material to the proposed financial sanction. A “material fact” is a fact essential to determining whether a provider committed a sanctionable violation for which penalties and assessments may be imposed.
(d)
Final decision without further proceedings.
If the debarring official determines that paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section both apply, a final decision may be issued, imposing financial sanctions in amounts not exceeding those proposed in the notice to the provider described in § 890.1066.
(e)
Insufficient evidence.
If the debarring official determines that a preponderance of the evidence does not demonstrate that the provider committed a sanctionable violation described in § 890.1061, the notice of proposed sanctions described in § 890.1066 must be withdrawn.
(f)
Disputed material facts.
If the debarring official determines that the administrative record contains a
bona fide
dispute about any fact material to the proposed sanction, he must refer the case for a fact-finding hearing to resolve the disputed fact or facts. The provisions of § 890.1027(b) and (c), 890.1028, and 890.1029(a) and (b) will govern such a hearing.
(g)
Final decision after fact-finding hearing.
After receiving the report of the fact-finding hearing, the debarring official must apply the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section to reach a final decision on the provider's contest.
§ 890.1071
Further appeal rights after final decision to impose penalties and assessments.
If the debarring official's final decision imposes any penalties and assessments, the affected provider may appeal it to the appropriate United States district court under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8902a(h)(2).
§ 890.1072
Collecting penalties and assessments.
(a)
Agreed-upon payment schedule.
At the time OPM imposes penalties and assessments, or the amounts are settled or compromised, the provider must be afforded the opportunity to arrange an agreed-upon payment schedule.
(b)
No agreed-upon payment schedule.
In the absence of an agreed-upon payment schedule, OPM must collect penalties and assessments under its regular procedures for resolving debts owed to the Employees Health Benefits Fund.
(c)
Offsets.
As part of its debt collection efforts, OPM may request other Federal agencies to offset the penalties and assessments against amounts that the agencies may owe to the provider, including Federal income tax refunds.
(d)
Civil lawsuit.
If necessary to obtain payment of penalties and assessments, the United States may file a civil lawsuit as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8902(i).
(e)
Crediting payments.
OPM must deposit payments of penalties and assessments into the Employees Health Benefits Fund.

# Subpart K—Temporary Continuation of Coverage

# Source:
54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1101
Purpose.
This subpart identifies the individuals who may temporarily continue coverage after the coverage would otherwise terminate under this part and sets forth the circumstances of their enrollment.
§ 890.1102
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Gross misconduct
means a flagrant and extreme transgression of law or established rule of action for which an employee is separated and concerning which a judicial or administrative finding of gross misconduct has been made.
Qualifying event
means any of the following events that qualify an individual for temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part:
(1) A separation from Government service.
(2) A divorce or annulment.
(3) A change in circumstances that causes an individual to become ineligible to be considered a child who is a covered family member under this part.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013]
§ 890.1103
Eligibility.
(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, individuals described by this section are eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under this subpart. Eligible individuals are as follows:
(1) Former employees whose coverage ends because of a separation from Federal service under any circumstances except an involuntary separation for gross misconduct.
(2) Individuals whose coverage as children under the self plus one or self and family enrollment of an employee, former employee, or annuitant ends because they cease meeting the requirements for being considered covered family members. For the purpose of this section, children who are enrolled under this part as survivors of deceased employees or annuitants are considered to be children under a self plus one or self and family enrollment of an employee or annuitant at the time of the qualifying event.
(3) Former spouses of employees, of former employees having continued self plus one or self and family coverage under this subpart, or of annuitants, if the former spouse would be eligible for continued coverage under subpart H of this part except for failure to meet the requirement of § 890.803(a)(1) or (3) or the documentation requirements of § 890.806(a), including former spouses who lose eligibility under subpart H within 36 months after termination of the marriage because they ceased meeting the requirement of § 890.803(a)(1) or (3).
(b) An individual who is otherwise eligible for benefits under this part (excluding the temporary extension of coverage and conversion privilege set forth in subpart D of this part) is not entitled to continued coverage under this subpart.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013; 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1104
Notification by agency.
(a) In the case of a former employee who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(1), the employing office must notify the former employee concerning his or her rights under this subpart no later than 30 days after the end of the temporary extension of coverage provided under § 890.401.
(b)(1) In the case of a child who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(2), the enrollee may, within 60 days after the qualifying event, provide written notice to the employing office of the child's change in status and requesting information about temporary continuation of coverage. The written notice must include the child's name and address and the date of the terminating event.
(2) If the notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is received by the employing office within 60 days after the date on which the child ceased meeting the requirements for being considered a covered family member, the employing office must notify the child of his or her rights under this subpart within 14 days after receiving the notice.
(3) This paragraph does not preclude the employing office from notifying the child of his or her rights based on oral or written notification by the child, another family member, or any other source that the child no longer meets the requirements for being considered a covered family member.
(c)(1) In the case of a former spouse who is eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3), the employee or the former spouse may, within 60 days after the termination of the marriage or the loss of coverage under subpart H of this part, notify the employing office of the terminating event and request information about temporary continuation of coverage. The notice must include the name and address of the former spouse and the date of the terminating event.
(2) The employing office must notify the former spouse of his or her rights under this subpart within 14 days after receiving the notice described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) If the employing office cannot give the notice required by this section to the employee, child, or former spouse directly, it must send the notice by first class mail. A notice that is mailed is deemed to be received 5 days after the date of the notice.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 21192, May 19, 1992; 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013]
§ 890.1105
Initial election of temporary continuation of coverage; application time limitations and effective dates.
(a) The election of temporary continuation of coverage may be in the form of a Standard Form 2809, letter, or written statement to the employing office.
(b)
Former employees.
A former employee's election under this subpart must be submitted to the employing office within 60 days after the later of—
(1) The date of separation; or
(2) The date the former employee received the notice from the employing office.
(c)
Children.
A child's election under this subpart must be submitted to the employing office within 60 days after the later of—
(1) The date of the qualifying event; or
(2) If the employee notified the employing office within the 60-day time period specified under § 890.1104(b)(1) of this part, the date the child received the notice from the employing office. If the employee did not notify the employing office within the specified time period, the child's opportunity to elect continued coverage ends 60 days after the qualifying event.
(d)
Former spouses.
(1) A former spouse's election must be received by the employing office within 60 days after the later of—
(i) The date of the qualifying event; or
(ii) The date coverage under subpart H of this part was lost because of remarriage or loss of qualifying court order, if the loss of coverage under subpart H occurred before the expiration of the 36-month period specified in § 890.1107(c); or
(iii) If the employee, annuitant, or former spouse notified the employing office of the termination of the marriage within the time period specified in § 890.1104(c)(1), the date the former spouse received the notice from the employing office described in § 890.1104(c)(2). If the employee, annuitant, or former spouse did not notify the employing office within the specified time period, the former spouse's opportunity to elect continued coverage ends 60 days after the qualifying event.
(2) The effective date of former spouse coverage is the later of—
(i) The date determined under paragraph (g) of this section; or
(ii) The date of the divorce or annulment.
(e) If an individual who is eligible for temporary continuation of coverage under this section is unable to file an
election on his or her own behalf because of a mental or physical disability, an election may be filed by a court-appointed guardian.
(f)
Belated elections.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(1)(iii) of this section, when an employing office determines that an eligible individual was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to elect temporary continuation of coverage within the time limits prescribed by this section, that office must accept the election within 60 days after it advises the individual of that determination.
(g)
Effective date of coverage.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the effective date of temporary continuation of coverage is the day after other coverage under this part expires, including the 31-day temporary extension of coverage under § 890.401. If an individual elects temporary continuation of coverage after the 31-day temporary extension of coverage expires, but before the expiration of the applicable election period specified in this section, coverage is restored retroactively, with appropriate contributions and claims, to the same extent and effect as though no break in coverage occurred.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 38442, July 18, 1997]
§ 890.1106
Coverage.
(a)
Type of enrollment.
An individual who enrolls under this subpart may elect coverage for self only, self plus one, or self and family.
(1) For an enrollee who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a) (1) or (2), a covered family member is an individual whose relationship to the enrollee meets the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 8901(5) and who meets any applicable requirements of 5 CFR 890.302 of this part.
(2) For a former spouse who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(3) of this part, a covered family member is an individual who meets the requirements of § 890.804 of this part.
(b)
Plans and options.
An individual who elects to continue coverage under this subpart may enroll in a plan or option different from the plan or option covering the individual at the time of the qualifying event.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1107
Length of temporary continuation of coverage.
(a) In the case of a former employee who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(1), the temporary continuation of coverage ends on the date that is 18 months after the date of separation, unless it is terminated earlier under the provisions of § 890.1110.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in the case of individuals who are eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(2), the temporary continuation of coverage ends on the date that is 36 months after the date the individual first ceases to meet the requirements for being considered a child who is a covered family member, unless it is terminated earlier under the provisions of § 890.1110.
(2) The temporary continuation of coverage ends on the date that is 36 months after the date of the separation from service on which the former employee's continuation of coverage is based, unless it is terminated earlier under the provisions of § 890.1110, in the case of individuals who—
(i) Are eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(2); and
(ii) As of the day before ceasing to meet the requirements for being considered children who are covered family members, were covered family members of a former employee receiving continued coverage under this subpart; and
(iii) Cease meeting the requirements for being considered children who are covered family members before the end of the 18-month period specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in the case of former spouses who are eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3), the temporary continuation of coverage ends on the date that is 36 months after the former spouse ceased meeting the requirements for coverage as a family member, unless it is terminated earlier under the provisions of § 890.1110.
(2) The temporary continuation of coverage ends on the date that is 36 months after the date of the separation from service on which the former employee's continuation of coverage is based, unless it is terminated earlier under the provisions of § 890.1110, in the case of a former spouse—
(i) Who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3); and
(ii) Whose marriage to the former employee terminates after the former employee's separation but before the expiration of the 18-month period specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013]
§ 890.1108
Opportunities to change enrollment; effective dates.
(a)
Effective date—generally.
Except as otherwise provided, a change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment.
(b)
Belated change of enrollment.
When an employing office determines that an enrollee was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to change the enrollment within the time limits prescribed by this section, the enrollee may do so within 60 days after the employing office advises the enrollee of its determination.
(c)
Change of enrollment by proxy.
Subject to the discretion of the employing office, an enrollee's representative, having written authorization to do so, may change the enrollment for the enrollee.
(d)
Decreasing enrollment type.
(1) An enrollee may decrease enrollment type at any time.
(2) A decrease in enrollment type takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment, except that at the request of the enrollee and upon a showing satisfactory to the employing office that there was no family member eligible for coverage under the self plus one or self and family enrollment, or only one family member eligible for coverage under the self and family enrollment, as appropriate, the employing office may make the change effective on the first day of the pay period following the one in which there was, in the case of a self plus one enrollment, no family member or, in the case of a self and family enrollment, only one or no family member.
(e)
Open season.
(1) During an open season as provided by § 890.301(f), an enrollee (except for a former spouse who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3)) may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes. A former spouse who is eligible for continued coverage under § 890.1103(a)(3) may change from one plan or option to another, but may not increase enrollment type unless the individual to be covered under the self plus one or self and family enrollment qualifies as a family member under § 890.1106(a)(2).
(2) An open season change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins in January of the next following year.
(3) When a belated open season change of enrollment is accepted by the employing office under paragraph (b) of this section, it takes effect as required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(f)
Change in family status.
(1) Except for a former spouse, an enrollee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the enrollee's family status changes, including a change in marital status or any other change in family status. The enrollee must change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of the change in family status, and ending 60 days after the date of the change in family status.
(2) A former spouse who is covered under this section may increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the birth or acquisition of a child who qualifies as a covered family member under § 890.1106(a)(2).
(3) A change of enrollment made in conjunction with the birth of a child,
or the addition of a child as a new family member in some other manner, takes effect on the first day of the pay period in which the child is born or becomes an eligible family member.
(g)
Reenrollment of individuals who lose other coverage under this part.
An individual whose continued coverage under this section terminates because of the provisions of § 890.1110(a)(3) (termination due to other coverage under another provision of this part) may reenroll if the coverage that terminated the enrollment under this part ends, but not later than the expiration of the period described in § 890.1107. Coverage does not extend beyond the expiration of the period described in § 890.1107. The effective date of the reenrollment is the day following the termination of the coverage described in § 890.1110(a)(3).
(h)
Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.
An enrollee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the enrollee loses coverage under this part or a qualified family member of the enrollee loses coverage under this part or under another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, an enrollee must change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage. Losses of coverage include, but are not limited to—
(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or change to self plus one or to self only, of the covering enrollment.
(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program.
(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan.
(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan, in whole or in part. For an enrollee who loses coverage under this paragraph (h)(4)—
(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the enrollee must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the enrollee to change the enrollment.
(ii) If the whole plan is discontinued, an enrollee who does not change the enrollment within the time set will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n);
(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, an enrollee who does not change the enrollment will enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP);
(iv) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, the enrollee must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If the enrollee does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the enrollee will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n). The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;
(v) An enrollee who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in § 890.301(n), may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy.
(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.
(i)
Move from comprehensive medical plan's area.
An enrollee in a comprehensive medical plan who moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or, if already outside this area, moves or becomes employed further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the move or
change of place of employment. Similarly, an enrollee whose covered family member moves outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the family member's move. The change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period that begins after the employing office receives an appropriate request.
(j)
On becoming eligible for Medicare.
An enrollee may change the enrollment from one plan or option to another at any time beginning on the 30th day before becoming eligible for coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). A change of enrollment based on becoming eligible for Medicare may be made only once.
[62 FR 38442, July 18, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 1912, Jan. 17, 2007; 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 65883, Oct. 28, 2015]
§ 890.1109
Premium payments.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the enrollee must pay the full enrollment charge as determined under § 890.503(a), including both the Government contributions and employee withholdings, plus the administrative charge described under § 890.1113, for every pay period during which the enrollment continues, exclusive of the 31-day temporary extension of coverage for conversion provided under § 890.401 of this part.
(b) If the enrollee is not covered under this subpart for the full pay period, he or she pays the premium charge for only the days actually covered. The daily premium rate is an amount equal to the monthly rate (including the administrative charge) multiplied by 12 and divided by 365.
(c) The enrollee must make the payment after the pay period during which he or she is covered in accordance with a schedule established by the employing office. If the employing office does not receive the payment by the date due, the employing office must notify the enrollee in writing that continuation of coverage depends upon payment being made within 15 days (45 days for enrollees residing overseas) after receipt of the notice. If no subsequent payments are made, the employing office terminates the enrollment 60 days (90 days for enrollees residing overseas) after the date of the notice. An enrollee whose coverage terminates because of nonpayment may not reenroll or reinstate coverage except as provided under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)(1) If the enrollee was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making payment within the timeframe specified in paragraph (c) of this section, he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office. The request must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of termination and must be accompanied by verification that the enrollee was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from paying within the time limit.
(2) The employing office determines whether the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. If the determination is affirmative, coverage is reinstated retroactively to the date of termination. If the determination is negative, the individual may request a review of the decision from the employing agency as provided under § 890.104.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 67607, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 37810, July 22, 1996]
§ 890.1110
Termination of enrollment or coverage.
(a)
General.
An enrollment under this subpart terminates at midnight of the earlier of the following dates:
(1) The date the temporary continuation of coverage expires as set forth in § 890.1107, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion.
(2) The last day of the pay period in which the enrollee dies.
(3) The day before the effective date of coverage under another provision of this part.
(4) The date provided under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.
(b)
Failure to pay premiums.
Termination of enrollment for failure to pay premiums within the timeframe established under § 890.1109 of this part is retroactive to the end of the last pay period for which payment was timely
received. The enrollee and covered family members, if any, are not entitled to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion or to convert to an individual contract for health benefits.
(c)
Cancellation.
An enrollee may cancel his or her enrollment as provided under § 890.304(d) of this part.
(d)
Family member coverage.
The coverage of a family member terminates under the conditions set forth in § 890.304(c). Covered family members of former employees and former spouses are entitled to temporary continuation of coverage only as set forth under § 890.1103.
§ 890.1111
Employing office responsibilities.
(a)
Providing information to employees.
Employing offices are responsible for providing employees who are eligible to enroll under this part with literature developed by OPM that sets forth their rights under this subpart. This literature must be distributed to employees prior to each open season occurring under § 890.301.
(b)
Administration of the enrollment process.
The employing office must establish procedures for notifying the former employee, child, or former spouse about his or her eligibility to enroll, including what documents are needed to determine eligibility, and for accepting enrollment registrations.
(c)
Collecting premiums.
(1) Collection of the contributions is the responsibility of the employing office of the employee or annuitant at the time of the qualifying event.
(2) The employing office must submit all premium payments collected from enrollees along with its regular health benefits payments to OPM in accordance with procedures established by that Office.
(d)
Health benefits file.
The employing office must maintain a health benefits file for the enrollee as a file separate from the personnel records of the employee or former employee. This file may be destroyed 2 years after the end of the calendar year during which the 18- or 36-month period described in § 890.1107 (a) or (b)(1) expires.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990]
§ 890.1112
Denial of continuation of coverage due to involuntary separation for gross misconduct.
(a)
Notice of denial.
(1) When an employing office determines that the offense for which an employee is being removed constitutes gross misconduct for the purpose of this subpart, the employing office must notify the employee in writing of its intention to deny temporary continuation of coverage. The notice must set forth the reason for the denial and give the employee a reasonable amount of time to respond. The notice must be made no later than the date of separation.
(2) If the employee is being removed under the authority of part 752 of this chapter (or other law, Executive Order, or regulation that prescribes procedures for removing employees because of misconduct), the notification requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be combined with the notification requirement of such authority.
(b)
Employee's response.
(1) The employee must be allowed a reasonable time for response, but not less than 7 days. The employee may respond orally or in writing and is entitled to be represented by an attorney or other representative.
(2) The agency must designate an official to hear the employee's oral answer who has the authority either to make or recommend a final decision on the denial. The right to answer orally does not include the right to a formal hearing with examination of witnesses.
(c)
Final decision.
If the employee responds to the notice of denial, the employing office must issue a final decision in writing that fully sets forth its findings and conclusions. The agency's decision is not subject to reconsideration by OPM.
(d)
Resignation in lieu of involuntary separation.
If an employee resigns after receiving the employing office's notification of intent to separate the employee involuntarily but before the scheduled separation date, his or her separation is considered involuntary for the purpose of this subpart.
§ 890.1113
The administrative charge.
(a) OPM has determined that the administrative charge as provided under 5 U.S.C. 8905a(d)(1)(A)(ii) is 2 percent of
the enrollment charge described in § 890.503(a).
(b) It is OPM's responsibility to establish procedures for receiving the administrative payment into the Employees Health Benefits Fund and for making this amount available to the employing office.
[54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990]

# Subpart L—Benefits for United States Hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and United States Hostages Captured in Lebanon

# Source:
55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1201
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the circumstances under which individuals are covered under this part in accordance with the provisions of section 599C of Public Law 101-513.
§ 890.1202
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Covered family members
as it applies to individuals covered under this subpart has the same meaning as set forth in § 890.101(a). For eligible survivors of individuals enrolled under this subpart, a self plus one enrollment covers only the survivor or former spouse and one eligible child of both the survivor or former spouse and hostage. A self and family enrollment covers only the survivor or former spouse and any eligible children of both the survivor or former spouse and hostage.
Hostage
and
hostage status
have the meaning set forth in section 599C of Public Law 101-513.
Pay period
for individuals enrolled under this subpart means the pay period established by the U.S. Department of State for paying individuals covered under Public Law 101-513.
Period of eligibility
means the period beginning on the effective date set forth in § 890.1204 of this subpart and ending 60 months after hostage status ended for hostages in Lebanon and 12 months after hostage status ended for hostages in Iraq and Kuwait.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 43132, Sept. 18, 1992; 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013; 80 FR 55738, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1203
Coverage.
(a) An individual is covered under this subpart when the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is eligible for coverage under section 599C of Public Law 101-513.
(b) An individual who is covered under this subpart is covered under the Standard Option of the Service Benefit Plan. The individual has a self and family enrollment unless the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is married and has no eligible children, or is unmarried and has one eligible child, in which case the individual is covered under a self plus one enrollment, or unless the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is unmarried and has no eligible children, in which case the individual has a self only enrollment.
(c) Individuals covered under this subpart are deemed ineligible for enrollment in any FEHB plan or option other than the Standard Option of the Service Benefit Plan.
(d) Eligible surviving family members of an individual covered under this subpart whose hostage status ended because of death or who dies during the 60 months or 12 months following the end of hostage status are eligible to continue enrollment under this part. The enrollment terminates no later than 60 months or 12 months after hostage status ended.
(e) An individual covered by this subpart is not considered an employee for the purpose of this part.
(f) Eligibility for coverage under this subpart shall be subject to the availability of funds under section 599C(e) of Public Law 101-513.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 43132, Sept. 18, 1992; 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013; 80 FR 55738, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1204
Effective date of coverage.
Unless the U.S. Department of State determines that a later date is appropriate, coverage under § 890.1203(b) is effective on August 2, 1990, for hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and on the later of
the date hostage status began or June 1, 1982, for hostages in Lebanon.
[57 FR 43132, Sept. 18, 1992]
§ 890.1205
Change in type of enrollment.
(a) Individuals covered under this subpart or eligible survivors enrolled under this subpart may increase enrollment type if they acquire an eligible family member. The change may be made at the written request of the enrollee at any time after the family member is acquired. An increase in enrollment type under this paragraph (a) becomes effective on the 1st day of the pay period after the pay period during which the request is received by the U.S. Department of State, except that a change based on the birth or addition of a child as a new family member is effective on the 1st day of the pay period during which the child is born or otherwise becomes a new family member.
(b) Individuals covered under this subpart or eligible survivors enrolled under this subpart may decrease enrollment type from a self and family enrollment when the last eligible family member (other than the enrollee) ceases to be a family member or only one family member remains; and may decrease enrollment type from a self plus one enrollment when no family member remains. The change may be made at the written request of the enrollee at any time after the last family member is lost and it becomes effective on the 1st day of the pay period after the pay period during which the request is received by the U.S. Department of State.
(c) A family member may file a request to change the type of enrollment on behalf of a hostage during the period of hostage status or on behalf of an eligible former hostage who cannot file the election on his or her own behalf because of a mental or physical disability.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 80 FR 55738, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1206
Cancellation of coverage.
(a) An individual who is covered under § 890.1203(b) may cancel his or her enrollment at any time by written request. The cancellation is effective on the 1st day of the pay period after the pay period in which it is received by the U.S. Department of State.
(b) An individual who cancels his or her coverage under this section cannot reacquire coverage unless the U.S. Department of State determines that it would be against equity and good conscience not to allow the individual to be enrolled.
(c) A cancellation of coverage must be made by the enrolled individual and cannot be made by a representative acting on the individual's behalf.
§ 890.1207
Termination of coverage.
(a) Coverage of an individual under § 890.1203(b) terminates 60 months or 12 months after hostage status ended unless the individual cancels the coverage earlier.
(b) Enrollees and family members are eligible for temporary extension of coverage for conversion as set forth in subpart D of this part unless the covering enrollment is terminated by cancellation.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 43132, Sept. 18, 1992]
§ 890.1208
Premiums.
(a) Government and employee contributions (premiums) required under §§ 890.501 and 890.502 of this part are paid from the appropriation provided under section 599C(e) of Public Law 101-513.
(b) If the individual is not covered under this subpart for the full pay period, premiums are paid only for the days he or she is actually covered. The daily premium rate is an amount equal to the monthly premium rate multiplied by 12 and divided by 365.
(c) The payments required by this section may be accepted by OPM from the State Department appropriation in advance if necessary to fund the 12-month period of coverage beginning on the earlier of:
(1) The day after sanctions or hostilities end; or
(2) The day after the individual's period of hostage status ends.
(d) OPM will place any funds received under paragraph (c) of this section in
an account established for this purpose. OPM will make the disbursements specified under 48 CFR subpart 1632.170 from this account when the appropriate pay period occurs.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 14325, Apr. 20, 1992]
§ 890.1209
Responsibilities of the U.S. Department of State.
(a) The U.S. Department of State functions as the “employing office” for individuals covered under this subpart.
(b) The U.S. Department of State must determine the eligibility of individuals who qualify under Public Law 101-513 for coverage under this part. This determination includes the determination as to whether the individual is barred from coverage under chapter 89 of title 5 U.S. Code by reason of other health insurance coverage as provided in section 599C of Public Law 101-513.
(c) The U.S. Department of State must determine the number of eligible family members, if any, for the purpose of coverage under a self only, self plus one, or self and family enrollment as set forth in § 890.1203(b). If the number of eligible family members of the individual cannot be determined, the U.S. Department of State must enroll the individual for self and family coverage.
[55 FR 50537, Dec. 7, 1990, as amended at 80 FR 55738, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 890.1210
Reconsideration and appeal rights.
(a) Under procedures set forth by the U.S. Department of State, an individual may request the U.S. Department of State to reconsider an initial decision it has made denying coverage or a change in the type of enrollment under this subpart.
(b) Neither the initial decision nor the reconsideration decision of the U.S. Department of State is subject to reconsideration by OPM.

# Subpart M—Department of Defense Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Demonstration Project

# Source:
65 FR 35260, June 2, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1301
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 721 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 1999, Public Law 105-261. This section amended chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, and chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, to establish a demonstration project under which certain Medicare and other eligible Department of Defense (DoD) beneficiaries can enroll in health benefit plans offered under the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program in certain geographic areas. The legislation was signed into law on October 17, 1998. The demonstration project will run for a period of three years. The legislation requires the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and DoD to jointly produce and submit two reports to Congress designed to assess the viability of expanding access to the FEHB Program to certain Medicare and other eligible DoD beneficiaries permanently. OPM is authorizing certain differences from regular FEHB Program practices in order to ensure the successful implementation of the demonstration project. This regulation authorizes those differences.
§ 890.1302
Duration.
The demonstration project will run from January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2002.
§ 890.1303
Eligibility.
(a) To enroll in the demonstration project, an individual must live within one of the demonstration areas and meet the definition of an eligible beneficiary in 10 U.S.C. 1108(b). An eligible beneficiary under this subpart is—
(1) A member or former member of the uniformed services described in section 1074(b) of title 10, United States Code, who is entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c
et seq.
);
(2) An individual who is an unremarried former spouse of a member or former member described in section 1072(2)(F) or section 1072(2)(G) of title 10, United States Code;
(3) An individual who is—
(i) A dependent of a deceased member or former member described in section
1076(b) or 1076(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, or of a member who died while on active duty for a period of more than 30 days; and
(ii) A “member of family” as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code; or
(4) An individual who is—
(i) A dependent of a living member or former member described in section 1076(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, who is entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act, regardless of the member's or former member's eligibility for such hospital insurance benefits; and
(ii) A “member of family” as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code.
(b) An eligible beneficiary may enroll in an FEHB plan under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, for self-only coverage or for self and family coverage. A self and family enrollment will include coverage of a dependent of the military member or former member who meets the definition of a “member of family” in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code. A self and family enrollment will not cover a person related to the eligible beneficiary that does not qualify as a “member of family” (as defined in section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code) of the military member or former member.
(c) A person eligible for coverage under this subpart shall not be required to satisfy any eligibility criteria specified in chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, or in other subparts of this part (except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4), and (b) of this section) as a condition for enrollment in health benefit plans offered through the FEHB Program under the demonstration project.
(d) When determining whether an individual is a “member of family” under section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of paragraph (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, a DoD member or former member described in section 1076(b) or 1076(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, shall be deemed to be an employee under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code. The sole purpose for deeming these members or former members of the uniformed services employees under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, is to determine which of their dependents can enroll as eligible beneficiaries in the demonstration project.
(e) A person who is eligible to enroll in the FEHB Program as an employee as defined in section 8901(1) of title 5, United States Code, is not eligible to enroll in an FEHB plan under the demonstration project.
§ 890.1304
Enrollment.
(a) Open Season for eligible beneficiaries will be held concurrent with the Open Season for regular FEHB enrollees. Open Seasons will be held in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. Eligible beneficiaries will be able to enroll for coverage, change enrollment tiers (e.g., self-only or self and family), or change health benefit plans or plan options during these periods.
(b) Enrolled eligible beneficiaries are required to pay associate membership dues if they enroll in open employee organization sponsored plans that are participating in the demonstration project.
(c) DoD will deny enrollment of eligible beneficiaries when the total number of eligible beneficiaries and family members enrolled in the demonstration project reaches 66,000.
(d) Eligible beneficiaries can enroll only in health plans offered by health benefit carriers who are participating in the demonstration project.
(e) Eligible beneficiaries and family members enrolled in the demonstration project are not eligible to obtain services from military medical treatment facilities or to enroll in a health care plan under the TRICARE Program.
(f) An eligible beneficiary enrolled in an FEHB plan under the demonstration project may change health benefits plans and coverage in the same manner as any other FEHB Program enrollee, except as provided for in this subpart.
§ 890.1305
Termination and cancellation.
(a) If an enrolled eligible beneficiary moves out of a demonstration area, the enrollment of the eligible beneficiary
and all family members will be terminated. If an enrolled eligible beneficiary moves to an area located within a demonstration area, he or she will continue to be eligible to participate in the demonstration project. If the eligible beneficiary was enrolled prior to the move in an HMO that does not serve the new demonstration area, the eligible beneficiary will have an opportunity to select a new health plan offered by a carrier participating in the demonstration project in the new area. If the eligible beneficiary was enrolled in a fee-for-service plan prior to the move and moves to another area that is within an existing demonstration area, the eligible beneficiary can maintain his or her current coverage.
(b) If an enrolled eligible beneficiary disenrolls, cancels, or terminates enrollment for any reason, he or she will not be eligible to reenroll in the demonstration project. Once coverage ends, eligible beneficiaries and all family members have the right to resume all of the benefits to which they are entitled to under title 10 of the United States Code. Medicare-covered eligible beneficiaries and their eligible family members who had Medigap policies prior to their enrollment in the demonstration project are entitled to reinstate that coverage under the conditions stated in section 1108(l) of title 10, United States Code.
(c) Eligible beneficiaries and their family members are eligible for Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC) under the conditions and for the durations described in subpart K or until the end of the demonstration project, whichever occurs first. The effective date of TCC for eligible beneficiaries or their eligible family members will be the day after other coverage under this subpart ends. Eligible beneficiaries or their eligible family members selecting TCC must enroll in a health plan offered by a carrier participating in the demonstration project. If an eligible beneficiary or eligible family member enrolled in DoD TCC moves from a demonstration project area, coverage ends. DoD TCC enrollees will be responsible for paying the entire DoD premium rate (OPM's approved net-to-carrier DoD rate plus 4 percent for contingency and administration reserves) plus 2 percent of this premium rate for administration of the program. DoD will make arrangements to collect premiums plus the 2 percent administrative charge from eligible beneficiaries and forward them to OPM's Employees Health Benefits Fund. OPM will establish procedures for receiving the 2 percent administrative payment into the Employees Health Benefits Fund and making this amount available to DoD for administration of the program.
(d) Enrolled eligible beneficiaries are not eligible for the temporary extension of coverage and conversion opportunities described in subpart D of this part.
§ 890.1306
Government premium contributions.
The Secretary of Defense is responsible for the government contribution for enrolled eligible beneficiaries and family members. The government contribution toward demonstration project premium rates will be determined in accordance with subpart E of this part.
§ 890.1307
Data collection.
Each carrier will compile, maintain, and when requested by OPM or DoD, report data on its plan's experience necessary to produce reports containing the following information and analysis:
(a) The number of eligible beneficiaries who elect to participate in the demonstration project.
(b) The number of eligible beneficiaries who elected to participate in the demonstration project and did not have Medicare Part B coverage before electing to participate.
(c) The costs of health benefits charges and the costs (direct and indirect) of administering the benefits and services provided to eligible beneficiaries who elect to participate in the demonstration project as compared to similarly situated enrollees in the FEHB Program.
(d) Prescription drug costs for demonstration project beneficiaries.
§ 890.1308
Carrier participation.
(a) All carriers who participate in the FEHB Program and provide benefits to
enrollees in the geographic areas selected as demonstration project areas must participate in the demonstration project, except as provided for in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) Carriers who have less than 300 FEHB enrollees may, but are not required to, participate in the demonstration project.
(c) Carriers may, but are not required to, participate in the demonstration project if their service area overlaps a small portion (as determined by OPM) of a demonstration project geographic area.
(d) Carriers offering fee-for-service plans with enrollment limited to specific groups will not participate in the demonstration project.

# Subpart N—Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers

# Source:
81 FR 95405, Dec. 28, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1401
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the conditions for coverage, rights, and benefits under Chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, according to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 1647b.
§ 890.1402
Definitions and deemed references.
(a) In this subpart—
Billing unit
is a subdivision of the tribal employer's workforce that aligns tribal employees for purposes of administering FEHB enrollment and collection of payment. A billing unit may be either governmental or commercial or a combination of both. So long as a tribal employer purchases FEHB for at least one billing unit that is an Indian Tribe or tribal organization carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA) or Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (TCSA), or an urban Indian organization carrying out at least one program under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA), the tribal employer may purchase FEHB for other billing units without regard to its programs.
Paymaster
is the entity or entities designated by OPM as responsible for receiving FEHB premiums from the tribal employer, forwarding premiums to the Employees Health Benefits Fund, and maintaining enrollment records for all participating tribal employers.
Payment
is the sum of the tribal employer's share of premium plus the tribal employees' share of premium plus any administrative fees or costs required under this subpart, due for the enrollment, in the aggregate, of the tribal employer's tribal employees.
Pay period i
s the interval of time for which a paycheck is issued by the tribal employer for work performed by the tribal employee.
Tribal employee
is a full-time or part-time common law employee of a tribal employer. An individual is a common law employee if, based on all the facts and circumstances, the tribal employer has the right to control and direct the individual who performs the services, not only as to the result to be accomplished by the work but also as to the details and means by which that result is accomplished. This determination is based on all facts and circumstances and shall be guided by the factors described by the Internal Revenue Service in Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296 and referenced in Joint Committee on Taxation report JCX-26-07
Present Law and Background Relating to Worker Classification for Federal Tax Purposes,
dated May 7, 2007, and the determination shall be consistent with the tribal employer's determination of common law employee status for Federal employment tax purposes, if any. For purposes of this subpart, tribal employees do not include retirees or annuitants of a tribal employer, volunteers of a tribal employer, or others who are not common law employees of a tribal employer. Categories of excluded tribal employees are described at § 890.1405(b). FEHB benefits available to tribal employees are set forth in this subpart and to the extent there exists any ambiguity or inconsistency between this subpart and other subparts of part 890, the terms of this subpart will govern FEHB benefits available to tribal employees.
Tribal employer
is an Indian tribe or tribal organization (as those terms are defined in 25 U.S.C. chapter 18, “Indian Health Care”) carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the TCSA (25 U.S.C. 2501
et seq.
); or an urban Indian organization (as that term is defined in 25 U.S.C. chapter 18, “Indian Health Care”) carrying out at least one program under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. The tribe, tribal organization, or urban Indian organization is a tribal employer provided that it certifies entitlement to purchase FEHB according to the process described in subpart N. FEHB benefits that tribal employers are entitled to purchase for their tribal employees are set forth in this subpart and to the extent there exists any ambiguity or inconsistency between this subpart and other subparts of this part, the terms of this subpart will govern FEHB benefits available for purchase by tribal employers.
Tribally controlled school
is a school (as the term is defined in section 2511 of 25 U.S.C. chapter 27, “Tribally Controlled School Grants”) that is operated by an Indian tribe or a tribal organization, enrolling students in kindergarten through grade 12, including a preschool; is not a local educational agency; and is not directly administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(b) In this subpart, wherever reference is made to other subparts of part 890—
(1) A reference to employee is deemed a reference to tribal employee;
(2) A reference to employer is deemed a reference to tribal employer;
(3) A reference to enrollee is deemed a reference to a tribal employee in whose name the enrollment is carried;
(4) A reference to employing agency, employing office, or agency is deemed a reference to tribal employer, and/or if the reference involves the subject of a paymaster function, the paymaster, as appropriate;
(5) A reference to United States, Federal Government, or Government in the capacity of an employer is deemed a reference to tribal employer;
(6) A reference to Federal Service or Government Service is deemed a reference to employment with a tribal employer;
(7) A reference to annuitant, survivor annuitant, or an individual with entitlement to an annuity is deemed inapplicable in the context of this subpart; and
(8) A reference incorporated into this subpart that does not otherwise apply to tribal employees and tribal employers shall have no meaning and is deemed inapplicable in the context of this subpart.
[81 FR 95405, Dec. 28, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 49466, Sept. 3, 2021]
§ 890.1403
Tribal employer purchase of FEHB requires current deposit of premium payment and timely payment of administrative fee.
(a) A tribal employer shall be entitled to purchase coverage, rights, and benefits for its tribal employees under Chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, if premium payment for the coverage, rights, and benefits for the period of employment with such tribal employer is currently deposited in the Employees Health Benefits Fund, and if the administrative fee is timely paid to the paymaster.
(b) Premium payment will be considered currently deposited if received by the Employees Health Benefits Fund before, during, or within fourteen days after the end of the month covered by the premium payment.
(c) Administrative fee will be considered timely paid if received by the paymaster before, during, or within fourteen days after the end of the month covered by the administrative fee.
(d) Purchase of FEHB coverage by a tribal employer confers all the rights and benefits of FEHB as set forth in Subpart N to the tribal employer and tribal employee.
§ 890.1404
Tribal employer election and agreement to purchase FEHB.
(a) A tribal employer that intends to purchase FEHB for its tribal employees shall notify OPM by email or telephone.
(1) A tribal employer must purchase FEHB for at least one billing unit carrying out programs or activities under the tribal employer's ISDEAA or IHCIA contract or TCSA grant.
(2) For so long as a tribal employer continues to purchase FEHB for at least one billing unit carrying out programs or activities under a tribal employer's ISDEAA or IHCIA contract or TCSA grant, the tribal employer may purchase FEHB for one or more billing units without regard to whether they are carrying out programs or activities under the tribal employer's ISDEAA or IHCIA contract or TCSA grant.
(b) A tribal employer must enter into an agreement with OPM to purchase FEHB. This agreement will include—
(1) The name, job title, and contact information of the individual responsible for health insurance coverage decisions for the tribal employer;
(2) The date on which the tribal employer will begin to purchase FEHB coverage;
(3) The approximate number of tribal employees who will be eligible to enroll;
(4) A certification that the eligible tribal employees within the enrolling billing unit will not have alternate tribal employer-sponsored health insurance coverage available concurrent with FEHB;
(5) A certification and documentation demonstrating that the tribal employer is entitled to purchase FEHB as either: An Indian tribe or tribal organization carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988; or an urban Indian organization carrying out at least one program under Title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act;
(6) Agreement by the tribal employer that its purchase of FEHB makes the tribal employer responsible for administering the program in accordance with this subpart, subject to Federal Government audit with respect to such purchase and administration, and subject to OPM authority to direct the administration of the program, including but not limited to the correction of errors;
(7) Agreement that the tribal employer will establish or identify an independent dispute resolution panel to adjudicate appeals of determinations made by a tribal employer regarding an individual's status as a tribal employee eligible to enroll in FEHB, eligibility of family members, and eligibility to change enrollment. This panel must have authority to enforce eligibility decisions;
(8) A certification that the tribal employer will supply necessary enrollment information and payment to the paymaster;
(9) Agreement to provide notice to OPM in the event that the tribal employer is no longer carrying out at least one program under the ISDEAA or title V of IHCIA or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988; and
(10) Other terms and conditions as appropriate.
(c) A tribal employer may make an initial election to purchase FEHB at any time. A tribal employer purchasing FEHB shall commit to purchase FEHB for at least the remainder of the calendar year in which the agreement is signed. Elections will be automatically renewable year to year unless revoked by the tribal employer or terminated by OPM.
(d) If a tribal employer revokes the initial election, OPM must be given 60 days notice. The tribal employer may not re-elect to purchase FEHB until the first annual open season that falls at least twelve months after the revocation. If the tribal employer revokes an election to participate a second time, the tribal employer may not re-elect to purchase FEHB until the first open season that falls at least twenty-four months after the second revocation.
(e) OPM maintains final authority, in consultation with the United States Department of the Interior and the United States Department of Health and Human Services, to determine whether a tribal employer is entitled to purchase FEHB as either—
(1) An Indian tribe or tribal organization carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988; or
(2) An urban Indian organization carrying out at least one program under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.
(f) If a tribe, tribal organization or urban Indian organization believes it
has been improperly denied the entitlement to purchase FEHB, it may appeal the denial to OPM. The appeal will be given an independent level of review within OPM and the decision on review will be final.
[81 FR 95405, Dec. 28, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 49466, Sept. 3, 2021]
§ 890.1405
Tribal employees eligible for enrollment.
(a) A tribal employee who is a full-time or part-time common law employee of a tribal employer is eligible to enroll in FEHB if that tribal employer has elected to purchase FEHB coverage for the tribal employees of that tribal employer's billing unit, except that a tribal employee described in paragraph (b) of this section is not eligible to enroll in FEHB.
(b) Status as a tribal employee under § 890.1402(a) for purposes of eligibility to enroll in FEHB is initially made based on a reasonable determination by the tribal employer. OPM maintains final authority to correct errors regarding FEHB enrollment as set forth at § 890.1406.
(c) Retirees, annuitants, volunteers, compensationers under Federal worker's disability programs past 365 days, and others who are not common law employees of the tribal employer are not eligible to enroll under this subpart.
(d) The following tribal employees are not eligible to enroll in FEHB—
(1) A tribal employee whose employment is limited to one year or less and who has not completed one year of continuous employment, including any break in service of 5 days or less;
(2) A tribal employee who is expected to work less than 6 months in one year;
(3) An intermittent tribal employee—a non-full-time tribal employee without a prearranged regular tour of duty;
(4) A beneficiary or patient employee in a Government or tribal hospital or home; and
(5) A tribal employee paid on a piecework basis, except one whose work schedule provides for full-time service or part-time service with a regular tour of duty.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section a tribal employee working on a temporary appointment, a tribal employee working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, or a tribal employee working on an intermittent schedule, for whom the tribal employer expects the total hours in pay status (including overtime hours) plus qualifying leave without pay hours to be at least 130 hours per calendar month, is eligible to enroll in FEHB according to terms described in § 890.102(j) unless the tribal employer provides written notification to the Director as described in § 890.102(k).
(f) The tribal employer initially determines eligibility of a tribal employee to enroll in FEHB, eligibility of family members, and eligibility of tribal employee to change enrollment. The tribal employer's initial decision may be appealed pursuant to § 890.1415.
(g) A tribal employee who is eligible and enrolls in FEHB under this subpart will have the option of enrolling in any FEHB open fee-for-service plan or health maintenance organization (HMO), consumer driven health plan (CDHP), or high deductible health plan (HDHP) available to Federal employees in the same geographic location as the tribal employee. The tribal employee will have the same choice of self only, self plus one, or self and family enrollment as is available to Federal employees.
(h) Family members of tribal employees will be covered by FEHB according to terms described at § 890.302. Children of tribal employees, whether married or not married, and whether or not dependent, are covered under a self and family enrollment or a self plus one enrollment (if the child is the designated covered family member) up to the age of 26. Former spouses of tribal employees are not former spouses as described at 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) and are not eligible to elect coverage under subpart H.
(i) Eligibility for FEHB under this subpart does not identify an individual as a Federal employee for any purpose, nor does it convey any additional rights or privileges of Federal employment.
§ 890.1406
Correction of enrollment errors.
Correction of errors regarding FEHB enrollment for tribal employees takes place according to the terms described in § 890.103.
§ 890.1407
Enrollment process; effective dates.
(a)
FEHB election for tribal employers.
Tribal employers may purchase FEHB coverage for their tribal employees after an agreement is accepted by OPM. Tribal employers will not be permitted to access FEHB if the tribal employer contributes toward, or offers, an alternative employer-sponsored health insurance plan for tribal employees within the billing unit(s) for which the employer seeks to purchase FEHB coverage, with the exception of a collectively bargained alternative plan. A stand-alone dental, vision, or disability plan is not considered alternative health insurance.
(b) Opportunities for tribal employees to enroll—
(1) Upon electing to purchase FEHB, a tribal employer will establish an initial enrollment opportunity for tribal employees. A tribal employee's enrollment upon an initial enrollment opportunity becomes effective as prescribed by OPM.
(2) After the initial enrollment opportunity, described in § 890.1407(b)(1), tribal employees are subject to the same initial enrollment period, belated enrollment rules, enrollment by proxy, and open season as Federal employees, as described at § 890.301(a), (b), (c), and (f).
(3) A tribal employee who enrolls after the initial enrollment opportunity and who does not elect premium conversion through his or her tribal employer's premium conversion plan, if one is available, will be subject to the enrollment and qualifying life event rules described at § 890.301 and effective dates described at § 890.301(b) and (f).
(4) A tribal employee who enrolls after the initial enrollment opportunity and who elects premium conversion through his or her tribal employer's premium conversion plan, if one is available, will be subject to the enrollment rules, qualifying life event rules and effective dates described at §§ 892.207, 892.208 and 892.210 of this chapter (together with § 890.301 as referenced therein).
§ 890.1408
Change in enrollment type, plan, or option.
(a) A tribal employee enrolled under this subpart may increase or decrease his or her enrollment, or may change enrollment from one plan or option to another, as described in § 890.301 (for tribal employees who did not elect premium conversion) or part 892 of this chapter (for tribal employees who did elect premium conversion).
(b) A change in enrollment type, plan, or option under this section becomes effective as described in § 890.301 (for tribal employees who did not elect premium conversion) or part 892 of this chapter (for tribal employees who did elect premium conversion).
§ 890.1409
Cancellation of coverage or decreases in enrollment.
(a) A tribal employee enrolled under this subpart may cancel enrollment as described at § 890.304(d) or decrease his or her enrollment as described at § 890.301. A tribal employee who does not participate in premium conversion may cancel his or her enrollment or decrease his or her enrollment at any time by request to the tribal employer, unless there is a legally binding court or administrative order requiring coverage of a child as described at § 890.301(g)(3). A tribal employee who participates in premium conversion may cancel his or her enrollment as provided by § 892.209 or decrease his or her enrollment as provided by § 892.208 of this chapter only during open season or because of and consistent with a qualifying life event.
(b) A cancellation of enrollment becomes effective as described at § 890.304(d). A decrease in enrollment becomes effective as described in § 890.301(e)(2).
(c) A tribal employee who cancels his or her enrollment under this section or decreases his or her enrollment may reenroll or increase his or her enrollment only during open season or because of and consistent with a qualifying life event.
§ 890.1410
Termination of enrollment and 31-day temporary extension of coverage; and conversion to individual policy.
(a) Tribal Employee Separation—
(1) Enrollment of a tribal employee under this subpart terminates due to separation from employment with the tribal employer for reasons of resignation, dismissal, or retirement. Termination of enrollment is effective at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the tribal employee separates from employment.
(2) A former tribal employee who is separated under this subpart due to resignation, dismissal, or retirement and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(b) Death of tribal employee—
(1) Enrollment of a tribal employee terminates at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which the tribal employee dies.
(2) If, at the time of death, the deceased tribal employee was enrolled in self and family FEHB coverage:
(i) The surviving spouse is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401;
(ii) The covered children of the deceased tribal employee are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(3) If, at the time of death, the deceased tribal employee was enrolled in self plus one FEHB coverage, only the designated covered family member is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(c) Termination of family member coverage—
(1) Coverage of a family member of a tribal employee who was covered under this subpart terminates, subject to the 31-day temporary extension of coverage, for conversion, at midnight of the earlier of the following dates:
(i) The day on which he or she ceases to be a family member; or
(ii) The day the tribal employee's enrollment terminates, unless the family member is entitled to continued coverage under the enrollment of another.
(2) Family members who lose coverage under this subsection are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(d) Tribal employer loses entitlement to purchase FEHB—
(1) Coverage of a tribal employee and family members under this subpart, except TCC that is already elected and in effect, terminates at midnight of the last day of the calendar year in which a tribal employer is no longer entitled to purchase FEHB. FEHB can terminate earlier at the request of the tribal employer.
(2) Following the termination described in § 890.1410(d)(1), enrolled tribal employees and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(e) Tribal employer revokes election to purchase FEHB—
(1) If a tribal employer voluntarily revokes its election to purchase FEHB, tribal employees will be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401. In such a case, the FEHB enrollment terminates effective the first day for which premium payment is not received and the 31-day temporary extension of coverage, for conversion begins immediately thereafter.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) Failure to currently deposit premium payment—
(1) If premium payment is not currently deposited in the Employees Health Benefits Fund, the tribal employer's entitlement to purchase FEHB can be terminated, and all enrollments affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated, for non-payment.
(2) Enrollments of all of the tribal employer's tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated effective midnight
of the last day of the month for which payment was received.
(3) In the case of termination of enrollment due to non-payment, affected tribal employees will be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401. The 31-day extension of coverage begins immediately upon termination of enrollment.
(4) In the event that a tribal employer elects to purchase FEHB for its tribal employees but does not currently deposit premium payment in the first month that it is due, the enrollment of tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will be terminated effective midnight of the last day of the month for which premium payment was not currently deposited. Tribal employees affected by the paymaster's failure to obtain current deposit of premium payment will not be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and may not convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(5) Any outstanding premium due for coverage in arrears will be treated as a debt owed solely by the tribal employer.
§ 890.1411
Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC).
(a) For purposes of this subpart, temporary continuation of coverage (TCC) is described by 5 U.S.C. 8905a and subpart K of this part. The administrative fee for TCC for tribal employees is the same as for Federal employees, with no specific tribal administrative fee as described in § 890.1413(e).
(b) A former tribal employee who is separated under this subpart due to resignation, dismissal, or retirement may elect TCC, unless the separation is due to gross misconduct as defined in § 890.1102.
(c) Eligibility for TCC for tribal employees follows procedures provided in § 890.1103 of subpart K of this part, except that former spouses of tribal employees are not eligible for TCC.
§ 890.1412
Non-pay status, insufficient pay, or change to ineligible position.
(a)
Non-pay status for 365 days.
Enrollment of a tribal employee and coverage of family members may continue for up to 365 days during which the tribal employee is in a non-pay status (as described at § 890.303(e)(1)) under terms described at § 890.502(b). Enrollment terminates at midnight of the last day of the pay period which includes the 365th consecutive day of nonpay status or the last day of leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act, whichever is later. The tribal employee and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(b)
Insufficient pay.
If the pay of a non-temporary tribal employee who is enrolled in FEHB is insufficient to pay for the tribal employee's share of premiums, the tribal employer must follow the procedure described at § 890.502(b). If the enrollment is terminated due to insufficient pay, the tribal employee and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(c)
Insufficient pay for temporary tribal employees.
If the pay of a temporary tribal employee who meets eligibility requirements described at 5 U.S.C. 8906a is insufficient to pay the tribal employee's share of premiums as described at § 890.304(a)(2), and the tribal employee does not or cannot elect a plan at a cost to him or her not in excess of the pay, the tribal employee's enrollment must be terminated as described at § 890.304(a)(2). The tribal employee and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(d)
Change to ineligible position.
A tribal employee who moves from an FEHB eligible to a non-FEHB-eligible position at a tribal employer will be eligible to continue FEHB enrollment as described in § 890.303(b).
(e) Non-pay status due to Uniformed Service—
(1) Enrollment of a tribal employee and coverage of family members terminates at midnight of the earliest of the dates described at § 890.304(a)(1)(vi) through (viii). The tribal employee and covered family members are entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage without premium contribution and may convert to an individual policy as described at § 890.401.
(2) Enrollment is reinstated on the date the tribal employee is restored to duty in an eligible position with the tribal employer upon return from Uniformed Service, pursuant to applicable law, provided that the tribal employer continues to purchase FEHB for its tribal employees in the affected tribal employee's billing unit on that date.
§ 890.1413
Premiums and administrative fee.
(a) Premium contributions and withholdings described at §§ 890.501 and 890.502 must be paid by the tribal employer and the tribal employee, except that the term OPM as used in § 890.502(c) is deemed to be a reference to the paymaster, as appropriate, for purposes of this subpart. There is no Government contribution as that term is used in 5 U.S.C. 8906.
(b)
Contribution requirements.
(1) A tribal employer must contribute at least the monthly equivalent of the minimum Government contribution for a specific FEHB plan as described in 5 U.S.C. 8906;
(2) There is no cap on the percentage of premium that a tribal employer may contribute, as long as the contribution and withholding arrangement is not designed to encourage or discourage enrollment in any particular plan or plan option;
(3) A tribal employer may vary the contribution amount by type of FEHB enrollment (self only, self plus one, self and family), providing it is done in a uniform manner and meets the requirements described in § 890.1413(b)(1) and (2); and
(4) A tribal employer may vary the contribution amount by billing unit, providing each billing unit meets the requirements described in § 890.1413(b)(1) through (3).
(c) A tribal employer may, but is not required to, prorate the tribal employer and tribal employee share of premium attributable to enrollment of its part-time tribal employees working between 16 and 32 hours per week by prorating shares in proportion to the percentage of time that a tribal employee in a comparable full time position is regularly scheduled to work.
(d) Tribal employee and tribal employer contributions to premiums under this subpart will be aggregated by the tribal employer. The tribal employee and tribal employer contributions must be available for receipt by the paymaster on an agreed upon date. The paymaster will receive the premium contributions together with the fee described at paragraph (e) of this section and will deposit only the premium payment into the Employees Health Benefits Fund described in 5 U.S.C. 8909.
(e) A fee determined annually by OPM will be charged in addition to premium for each enrollment of a tribal employee. The fee may be used for other purposes as determined by OPM. The fee must be paid entirely by the tribal employer as part of the payment to purchase FEHB for tribal employees, and must be available for collection by the paymaster, together with the aggregate tribal employee and tribal employer contributions.
§ 890.1414
Responsibilities of the tribal employer.
(a) The tribal employer pays premiums for tribal employees enrolled under this subpart pursuant to §§ 890.1403 and 890.1413.
(b) The tribal employer must determine the eligibility of individuals who attempt to enroll for coverage under this subpart and enroll those it finds eligible.
(c) The tribal employer must determine whether eligible tribal employees have eligible family member(s) and allow coverage under a self plus one or self and family enrollment as described in § 890.302 for those it finds eligible.
(d) The tribal employer must establish or identify an independent dispute resolution panel for reconsideration of enrollment and eligibility decisions as described in § 890.1415.
(e) The tribal employer has the following notification responsibilities. The tribal employer must—
(1) Notify OPM and tribal employees in writing of intent to revoke election to purchase FEHB at least 60 days before such revocation described at § 890.1404(d);
(2) Promptly notify tribal employees and OPM if there is a change in the tribal employer's entitlement to purchase FEHB described at § 890.1410(d);
(3) Promptly notify affected tribal employees of termination of enrollment due to non-payment, the 31-day temporary extension of coverage and its ending date described at § 890.1410(f)(2) through (3); and
(4) Promptly notify affected tribal employees of termination of enrollment due to non-payment described at § 890.1410(f)(4).
§ 890.1415
Reconsideration of enrollment and eligibility decisions and appeal rights.
(a) The tribal employer shall establish or identify an independent dispute resolution panel to adjudicate appeals of determinations made by a tribal employer denying an individual's status as a tribal employee eligible to enroll in FEHB or denying a change in the type of enrollment (
i.e.:
to or from self only coverage) under this subpart. Such panel shall be authorized to enforce enrollment and eligibility decisions. The tribal employer shall notify affected individuals of this panel and its functions.
(b) Under procedures set forth by the tribal employer, an individual may file a written request to the independent dispute resolution panel to reconsider an initial decision of the tribal employer under this subpart. A reconsideration decision made by the panel must be issued to the individual in writing and must fully state the findings and reasons for the findings. The panel may consider information from the tribal employer, the individual, or another source. The panel must retain a file of its documentation until December 31 of the 3rd year after the year in which the decision was made, and must provide the file to OPM upon request.
(c) If the panel determines that the individual is ineligible to enroll in FEHB as a tribal employee or to change enrollment, the individual may request that OPM reconsider the denial. Such a request must be made in writing and any decision by OPM will be binding on the tribal employer.
(d) OPM may request a panel decision file during the retention period described at paragraph (b) of this section. Panel decisions remain subject to final OPM authority to correct errors, as set forth in § 890.1406.
§ 890.1416
Filing claims for payment or service and court review.
(a) Tribal employees may file claims for payment or service as described at § 890.105.
(b) Tribal employees may invoke the provisions for court review described at § 890.107(b) through (d).
§ 890.1417
No continuation of FEHB enrollment into retirement from employment with a tribal employer.
(a) An FEHB enrollment cannot be continued into retirement from employment with a tribal employer.
(b) A Federal annuitant may continue FEHB enrollment into retirement from Federal service if the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) for carrying FEHB coverage into retirement are satisfied through enrollment, or coverage as a family member, either through a Federal employing office or a tribal employer, or any combination thereof.
(c) A Federal annuitant who is employed after retirement by a tribal employer in an FEHB eligible position may participate in FEHB through the tribal employer. In such a case, the Federal annuitant's retirement system will transfer the FEHB enrollment to the tribal employer, in a similar manner as for a Federal annuitant who is employed by a Federal agency after retirement.
(d) A tribal employee who becomes a survivor annuitant as described in § 890.303(d)(2) is entitled to reinstatement of health benefits coverage as a Federal employee would under the same circumstances.
§ 890.1418
No continuation of FEHB enrollment in compensationer status past 365 days.
A tribal employee who is not also a Federal employee who becomes eligible for one of the Department of Labor's disability compensation programs may not continue FEHB coverage in leave without pay status past 365 days.
Subpart O [Reserved]

# Subpart P—Postal Service Health Benefits Program

# Source:
88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 890.1601
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the establishment, administration, and requirements of the Postal Service Health Benefits Program under 5 U.S.C. 8903c, within the FEHB Program under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89. This subpart incorporates provisions of this part to the extent generally applicable and not inconsistent with this subpart.
§ 890.1602
Definitions and deemed references.
(a) In this subpart, the terms set out in § 890.101 apply unless stated otherwise.
(b) In this subpart, the terms
covered Medicare individual, initial contract year, initial participating carrier, Medicare Part A, Medicare Part B,
and
Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant
have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8903c.
(c) In this subpart—
Cancel
means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled in a PSHB plan, by an enrollee who is eligible to continue enrollment, including because the enrollee did not enroll in, or chose to disenroll from, Medicare Part B.
Election not to enroll
means to submit an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled in a PSHB plan by an individual who is eligible to enroll, including because the individual chooses not to enroll in Medicare Part B.
Medicare coverage
means coverage that meets the requirements of § 890.1604.
Reconsideration
means the final level of administrative review of an initial decision by an employing office or OPM, as applicable.
Source agency
means an agency that periodically provides information or data to OPM pursuant to an agreement under § 890.1612.
(d) In this subpart, wherever reference is made to other subparts of this part—
(1) A reference to employee is deemed a reference to Postal Service employee;
(2) A reference to enrollee is deemed a reference to a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant in whose name the enrollment is carried;
(3) A reference to annuitant, survivor annuitant, or an individual with entitlement to an annuity is deemed a reference to Postal Service annuitant;
(4) A reference to employer, employing agency, employing office, or agency for Postal Service employees is deemed a reference to the Postal Service, for Postal Service annuitants is deemed a reference to the appropriate retirement system or other appropriate entity for compensationers, those enrolled under TCC or Spouse Equity, and annuitants whose annuity is insufficient to withhold the cost of health benefits premiums; and
(5) A reference to carrier is deemed a reference to a PSHB Carrier.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85028, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1603
Eligibility for the Postal Service Health Benefits Program.
(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, the following individuals are eligible to enroll, or to be covered under an enrollment, in a health benefits plan described at 5 U.S.C. 8903c and under this subpart:
(1) Postal Service employee;
(2) Postal Service annuitant; and
(3) Member of family of an individual in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(b) For purposes of this subpart, a Postal Service employee includes a Postal Service employee who receives monthly compensation under 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, subchapter I (“compensationer”), who is determined by the Secretary of Labor to be unable to return to duty.
(c) The following individuals may not enroll, or be covered under an enrollment, in this subpart:
(1) Any Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant who is not enrolled in Medicare Part B and is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B, in accordance with § 890.1604;
(2) Any Medicare covered member of family of a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant who is not enrolled in Medicare Part B and is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B, in accordance with § 890.1604; or
(3) Any individual covered by an FEHB plan under this part, except as permitted by § 890.302(a)(2).
(d) Former spouses of Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants may establish their eligibility to enroll under subpart H of this part. A former spouse of a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant who is enrolled in an FEHB plan on or before December 31, 2024, may continue enrollment in an FEHB plan and is not required to enroll in a PSHB plan. A former spouse who is eligible under § 890.803(a)(2) because of their enrollment in a PSHB plan is not eligible to enroll or remain enrolled in a PSHB plan; they may enroll in an FEHB plan and, accordingly, the Medicare enrollment requirements in § 890.1604 would not apply.
(e) Survivor annuitants have the same eligibility for reinstatement of enrollment as described in § 890.303(d) for enrollment in a PSHB plan or an FEHB plan as applicable to the service that gives rise to the survivor annuitant status, except that the Medicare enrollment requirements in § 890.1604 would apply to reinstatements of enrollment into a PSHB plan.
(f) Individuals enrolled or covered under the PSHB Program are eligible to elect temporary continuation of coverage as provided under subpart K of this part.
§ 890.1604
Medicare enrollment requirement for certain Postal Service annuitants and eligible family members.
(a)
Annuitant.
A Postal Service annuitant who is entitled to Medicare Part A must be enrolled in Medicare Part B to enroll or continue enrollment in a health benefits plan under this subpart, except as otherwise provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(b)
Member of family.
A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's member of family who is entitled to Medicare Part A must be enrolled in Medicare Part B to be covered or continue coverage in a health benefits plan under this subpart, unless:
(1) The Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant is excepted from the requirement to enroll in Medicare Part B as provided by paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section; or
(2) The member of family is excepted from the requirement to enroll in Medicare Part B as provided by paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(c)
Survivor annuitant.
(1) A Postal Service annuitant's member of family who is an annuitant as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(3)(B) and who is entitled to Medicare Part A must be enrolled in Medicare Part B to continue enrollment in a health benefits plan under this subpart, except as otherwise provided by paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(2) A Postal Service employee's member of family who is an annuitant as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(3)(B) and who is entitled to Medicare Part A, must be enrolled in Medicare Part B to continue enrollment in a health benefits plan under this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(d)
Exceptions.
The Medicare Part B enrollment requirements provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply:
(1) To a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant who—
(i) Was a Postal Service annuitant on or before January 1, 2025, and who was not both entitled to Medicare Part A and enrolled in Medicare Part B on January 1, 2025;
(ii) Was a Postal Service employee and was 64 years of age or older on January 1, 2025;
(iii) Resides outside the United States (which includes the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands), provided
that the individual demonstrates such residency;
(iv) Is enrolled in health care benefits provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, subchapter II, including individuals who are not required to enroll in the VA's system of patient enrollment referred to in 38 U.S.C. 1705(a), subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or
(v) Is eligible for health services from the Indian Health Service, subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) To a Medicare covered member of family who—
(i) Is eligible for PSHB coverage under the PSHB enrollment of a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant who is not required to enroll in Medicare Part B, as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section;
(ii) Resides outside the United States (which includes the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands), provided that the individual demonstrates such residency;
(iii) Is enrolled in health care benefits provided by the VA under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, subchapter II, including individuals who are not required to enroll in the VA's system of patient enrollment referred to in 38 U.S.C. 1705(a) to receive VA hospital care and medical services, subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or
(iv) Is eligible for health services from the Indian Health Service subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(3) To a survivor annuitant, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, who:
(i) At the time of becoming a survivor annuitant the Postal Service annuitant was subject to an exception under paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(ii) Resides outside the United States (which includes the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands), provided that the individual demonstrates such residency;
(iii) Is enrolled in health care benefits provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, subchapter II, including individuals who are not required to enroll in the VA's system of patient enrollment referred to in 38 U.S.C. 1705(a), subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or
(iv) Is eligible for health services from the Indian Health Service, subject to the documentation requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(e)
Documentation requirements.
To qualify for an exception under paragraph (d) of this section, a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant, or a Medicare covered member of family must meet one of the following documentation requirements:
(1) Documentation or information in a form, manner, and frequency as prescribed by OPM demonstrating qualification, satisfactory to the Postal Service, for the exceptions at paragraph (d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section;
(2) Documentation from the Department of Veterans Affairs in a form, manner, and frequency as prescribed by OPM demonstrating the individual meets an exception identified in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) or (d)(2)(iii), of this section; or
(3) Documentation from the Indian Health Service (IHS) in a form, manner, and frequency as prescribed by OPM in consultation with IHS demonstrating the individual meets an exception identified in paragraph (d)(1)(v) or (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(f)
Notification of non-enrollment in Medicare Part B.
A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant, a Medicare covered member of family, or a survivor annuitant, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, who is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B must promptly notify OPM or the Postal Service, in writing, if they choose not to enroll in or to disenroll from Medicare Part B as described in § 890.1608(e).
(g)
Effect of non-enrollment in Part B.
Failure to enroll or disenrollment from Medicare Part B will have the effect of
a termination of PSHB coverage, as described in § 890.1608(b).
[89 FR 37078, May 6, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 85028, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1605
Enrollment in the initial contract year.
(a)
Definitions.
In this section—
Current enrollment type
means the type of coverage (self only, self plus one, or self and family) of the FEHB plan in which the individual is enrolled during the contract year immediately preceding the initial contract year;
Current option
with respect to an individual, means the option under a FEHB plan in which the individual is enrolled during the contract year immediately preceding the initial contract year; and
Current plan
means, with respect to an individual, the FEHB plan in which the individual is enrolled during the contract year immediately preceding the initial contract year.
(b)
Transitional Open Season.
(1) During the Open Season that immediately precedes the initial contract year (
i.e.,
the transitional Open Season), a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant—
(i) May elect to enroll or elect not to enroll in a PSHB plan; and
(ii) Will not be enrolled or continue enrollment in an FEHB plan under this part as a Postal Service employee or a Postal Service annuitant.
(2) A Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant who is eligible to enroll in a PSHB plan and is enrolled in an FEHB plan but who does not make an election during the transitional Open Season either to enroll in a PSHB plan or not to enroll in a PSHB plan will be automatically enrolled in a PSHB plan pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) During the transitional Open Season, a Postal Service employee in a nonpay status, such as leave without pay, except for the case of a 365-day period of nonpay status as set forth at § 890.303(e), may enroll in a PSHB plan or may be automatically enrolled in a PSHB plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Automatic enrollment.
Each Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant who is enrolled in an FEHB plan on December 31, 2024, and does not make an enrollment action during the transitional Open Season under paragraph (b) of this section, will be automatically enrolled in the PSHB Program as follows:
(1)
Into corresponding plan.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB plan where the carrier offers the same plan in 2025 in FEHB and offers a 2025 PSHB plan with at least one option that has equivalent benefits and cost sharing and in the same geographic area as the 2025 FEHB plan, will be enrolled in that 2025 PSHB plan and into an option as follows:
(i)
Equivalent option.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB option where the carrier offers that option in 2025 in FEHB and also offers a 2025 PSHB option with equivalent benefits and cost sharing as the 2025 FEHB option, as determined by OPM, will be automatically enrolled into that 2025 PSHB option; or
(ii)
No equivalent option.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB option where the carrier does not offer a 2025 PSHB option that meets the criteria in (1)(i), will be automatically enrolled into the lowest-cost option of the 2025 PSHB plan, that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) and does not charge an association or membership fee, except that if the only option is an HDHP, then the individual will be enrolled in that HDHP option.
(2)
Into a 2025 PSHB plan where the carrier offers no 2025 FEHB plan.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB plan where the carrier offers no 2025 FEHB plan and offers a 2025 PSHB plan with at least one option with similar benefits and cost sharing and in the same geographic area as the 2024 FEHB plan, as determined by OPM, will be enrolled in that 2025 PSHB plan and into an option as follows:
(i)
Similar option.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB option where the carrier offers a 2025 PSHB option with similar benefits and cost sharing as the 2024 FEHB option, as determined by OPM, will be automatically enrolled into that 2025 PSHB option; or
(ii)
No similar option.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB option where the carrier does not offer a 2025 PSHB option that meets the criteria in
paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, will be automatically enrolled into the lowest-cost option of the 2025 PSHB plan, or in the case where the 2025 PSHB plan has two or more options, into the lowest-cost option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) and does not charge an association or membership fee.
(3)
Into different plan.
Individuals enrolled in a carrier's 2024 FEHB plan where paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide PSHB option, consistent with § 890.301(n).
(4)
Same enrollment type.
Individuals automatically enrolled under this section will be automatically enrolled into the same enrollment type as the individual's 2024 enrollment type.
(d)
Automatic enrollment—effect on family members.
A Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant automatically enrolled under paragraph (c) of this section will be enrolled in the same enrollment type they were enrolled in immediately preceding the initial contract year. The enrollee's family member(s), if eligible, will be covered under the same enrollment type they were covered under immediately preceding the initial contract year.
(1) A self plus one enrollment will cover the same eligible family member as in the current plan. Automatic enrollment does not verify eligibility of family members. The enrollee must make an affirmative enrollment change to remove an ineligible family member and may replace them with an eligible family member or change the enrollment to a self only or to a self and family enrollment type. Failure to affirmatively change an automatic enrollment to remove an ineligible family member from a self plus one enrollment will result in coverage only for the enrollee but premium withholding for a self plus one enrollment.
(2) A self and family enrollment will include all eligible members of family. Automatic enrollment does not verify identity of eligible family members. The enrollee must affirmatively notify the PSHB Carrier, employing office, or OPM of any changes to members of family.
(e)
Belated enrollment and enrollment changes.
Belated enrollments and enrollment changes will be permitted as follows:
(1) In general, belated enrollments or belated enrollment changes are permitted in accordance with § 890.301(c) for Postal Service employees and § 890.306(c) for Postal Service annuitants.
(2) Any individuals who should have been automatically enrolled pursuant to this section but were not, are deemed to have met the requirement to show that they were unable to enroll for cause beyond their control.
(3) OPM may, in its discretion, deem other individuals or groups of individuals to have met the requirement to show that they were unable to enroll for cause beyond their control.
(4) Unless required to be a prospective change by governing premium conversion under part 892 of this chapter, a belated Open Season enrollment or enrollment change, coverage, and premium obligation take effect on January 1 of the contract year.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85028, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1606
Opportunities to enroll, change enrollment, or reenroll; effective dates.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a Postal Service employee may enroll or change enrollment, as provided by § 890.301, in a PSHB plan and may not enroll in a FEHB plan as a Postal Service employee.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a Postal Service annuitant may change enrollment or reenroll as provided by § 890.306, in a PSHB plan and may not enroll or reenroll in a FEHB plan as a Postal Service annuitant.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, reinstatement of enrollment in accordance with § 890.305 is permitted in a PSHB plan.
(d) Initial decisions and reconsiderations of PSHB eligibility or enrollment will be made pursuant to § 890.1607.
(e) Under this subpart, an enrollment, change of enrollment, or reenrollment made during Open Season
takes effect on January 1 of the next year.
(f) Under this subpart, OPM will effectuate the following health benefits actions: to enroll or change enrollment; to elect not to enroll; and to reenroll. The employing office makes determinations of eligibility under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89, pursuant to application of 39 U.S.C. 1005.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 37079, May 6, 2024; 89 FR 85029, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1607
Initial decision and reconsideration.
(a)
Who may file.
An individual may request the employing agency or OPM, as applicable, to reconsider the employing office's or OPM's initial decision denying eligibility for, or enrollment in, or coverage under, the PSHB Program. Individuals subject to § 890.1112 are not entitled to reconsideration as used in this subpart.
(b)
Initial decision.
An employing office's or OPM's initial decision must be in writing and state the right to an independent level of review (reconsideration).
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, employing offices are responsible for initial decisions concerning PSHB eligibility for Postal Service employees or Postal Service annuitants.
(2) OPM is responsible for initial decisions concerning:
(i) Verification that an individual is an eligible member of family under § 890.302;
(ii) Postal Service annuitants or their family members who are not required to enroll in VA's system of patient enrollment referred to in 38 U.S.C. 1705(a), and who must provide documentation from the VA under § 890.1604(d)(2) indicating they satisfy the requirements for an exception described in § 890.1604(c)(1)(iv) or (c)(2)(iii); and
(iii) Postal Service annuitants or their family members who must provide documentation from the Indian Health Service under § 890.1604(d)(3) indicating they satisfy the requirements for an exception described in § 890.1604(c)(1)(v) or (c)(2)(iv).
(3) OPM is responsible for initial decisions regarding enrollment actions made based on information received from source agencies with which OPM has an information sharing agreement established pursuant to § 890.1612. An initial decision under this paragraph will be issued only after the notice process under § 890.1612 is completed.
(c)
Reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be made in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth, Social Security number or other unique identifier, name of the carrier, reason(s) for the request, documentary evidence in support of the request, if any, and, if applicable, retirement claim number.
(2) The reconsideration review must be an independent review designated at or above the level at which the initial decision was rendered.
(d)
Time limit.
A request for reconsideration of an initial decision must be filed with the employing agency or OPM, as applicable, within 30 calendar days from the date of the written decision stating the right to a reconsideration. The time limit on filing may be extended, at the discretion of the employing agency or OPM, when the individual shows that they were not notified of the time limit and were not otherwise aware of it, demonstrates a good faith effort to obtain the documentation as described under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, or that they were prevented by circumstances beyond their control from making the request within the time limit. The employing agency's or OPM's decision in response to a request for reconsideration of an employing office's initial decision is a final decision as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Final decision.
After reconsideration, the employing agency or OPM, as applicable, must issue a final decision within 30 days of the request for reconsideration, which must be in writing and must fully set forth the findings and conclusions.
[89 FR 85029, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1608
Disenrollment, removal, termination, cancellation, and suspension.
(a)
Enrollment in FEHB plan terminates prior to the initial PSHB contract year.
For individuals who are eligible to enroll under this subpart pursuant to § 890.1603(a), enrollment in an FEHB plan and coverage of the enrollee and covered family members under that FEHB plan will terminate at the end of the contract year preceding the initial contract year.
(1) Coverage under an FEHB plan will remain available for an eligible family member who is or becomes covered as a member of family of an FEHB plan enrollee who is not eligible for a PSHB plan pursuant to § 890.1603(a)(1) or (2).
(2) Coverage as a family member under an FEHB plan will remain available for a Postal Service employee or Postal Service annuitant who is or becomes covered under their family member's FEHB enrollment. A Postal Service annuitant's or Postal Service employee's family member who meets the eligibility requirements for their own enrollment in an FEHB plan will remain eligible to enroll in an FEHB plan.
(3) Individuals whose coverage is terminated under this paragraph (a) are not eligible for temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part pursuant to § 890.1103(b).
(b)
Disenrollment and removal from enrollment: Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants and Medicare covered members of family not enrolled in Medicare Part B.
An individual who is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B and is not enrolled in Medicare Part B will not be disenrolled or removed from PSHB coverage immediately and will be given one opportunity to remain enrolled in or covered by PSHB if they enroll or reenroll in Medicare Part B during their next available Medicare enrollment period, which may be the next Medicare General Enrollment Period, except that an individual who was excepted from the Medicare Part B requirement pursuant to § 890.1604(d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(ii) must enroll not later than the end of the Medicare General Enrollment Period beginning January 1 of the following calendar year. Failure to enroll or reenroll in Medicare Part B at the next enrollment period may result in disenrollment from PSHB or removal from coverage under a PSHB enrollment. If disenrolled, a Postal Service annuitant will not be permitted to reenroll in PSHB, as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, and a family member who is removed from coverage under a PSHB enrollment, may have their PSHB coverage reinstated only as described in paragraph (b)(9) of this section. (1) Unless the individual qualifies for an exception under § 890.1604(c), a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant may be disenrolled and a Medicare covered member of family may be removed from PSHB coverage if not enrolled in Medicare Part B either:
(i) By the end of their Medicare initial enrollment period or applicable Medicare special enrollment period; or,
(ii) Any time after January 1, 2025, that the PSHB Carrier, the Postal Service, or OPM determines that the individual was required to be enrolled but has not enrolled in Medicare Part B.
(2) A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant will not be disenrolled from PSHB and a Medicare covered member of family will not be removed from PSHB coverage in a case where that individual was not informed of their obligation to enroll in Medicare Part B, or it would be against equity and good conscience to remove the individual.
(3) A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant will not be disenrolled and a Medicare covered member of family will not be removed from PSHB coverage due to not being enrolled in Medicare Part B if such individual qualifies for one of the exceptions in § 890.1604(c).
(4) A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant may not be disenrolled if they have suspended PSHB enrollment while enrolled in a Medicare-sponsored plan under section 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act as described in § 890.304(d)(2).
(5) Disenrollment of a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant from a PSHB plan under this section shall be considered a termination with entitlement of the enrollee and their covered family members to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and the right of conversion under § 890.401, except as provided at paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) A Postal Service annuitant will have no further opportunity to reenroll in a PSHB plan. Disenrollment of a Postal Service annuitant will also result in the removal of covered family members from PSHB coverage.
(ii) Disenrollment or removal from coverage under an enrollment will be prospective in all cases except where fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact is found, in which case the individual's coverage will be terminated retroactively, as applicable, and no right to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage or to conversion under § 890.401 will be available.
(iii) Disenrollment or removal under this section will occur only after a notice process under § 890.1612, if applicable, is completed and an initial decision to disenroll or remove, subject to reconsideration under § 890.1607(b), is issued.
(6) An individual who is disenrolled from Medicare Part B, where the individual is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B and does not have an exception under this subpart, will be issued an initial decision disenrolling them from PSHB or removing them from coverage under a PSHB enrollment at the time OPM becomes aware of the Medicare disenrollment. Individuals disenrolled or removed from PSHB coverage will be entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and rights to conversion.
(7) Within 60 days of OPM's initial decision, a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or Medicare covered member of family, as applicable, may request reconsideration of OPM's initial decision to disenroll or remove the individual from PSHB coverage. OPM will notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to disenroll or remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended as noted in § 890.1607.
(8) If the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant provides acceptable proof of PSHB eligibility subsequent to disenrollment which renders the disenrollment inappropriate, the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in enrollment, as appropriate. A Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's PSHB enrollment cannot be reinstated after disenrollment from a PSHB plan based on failure to enroll in, disenrolling from, or being disenrolled from Medicare Part B, except that a one-time opportunity as set forth at § 890.1608(b) may be available if the Postal Service annuitant has not previously invoked and used it.
(9) If the Postal Service Medicare covered member of family, who is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B and is removed from a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's PSHB enrollment because the family member failed to enroll in, disenrolls from, or is disenrolled from Medicare Part B, the family member's PSHB coverage may be reinstated. Reinstatement of the family member's PSHB coverage will be permitted only if the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's PSHB enrollment continues, and only if proof of the family member's Medicare Part B enrollment which renders the removal inappropriate, is provided by the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or Medicare covered member of family, as applicable. The family member's PSHB coverage will be reinstated upon request by the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant to reinstate the family member's PSHB coverage subsequent to removal, at the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's option, as follows:
(i) Prospectively, within 60 days of the Medicare covered family member gaining coverage under Medicare Part B, or
(ii) Retroactively to the date of termination of PSHB coverage, so that there is no gap in coverage, provided that the proof demonstrates the family member was continuously enrolled in Medicare Part B since that date and subsequent to removal, as appropriate.
(c)
Ineligibility under this subpart.
The PSHB Carrier, Postal Service, other applicable employing offices, or OPM, as appropriate, may take action to disenroll ineligible individuals from enrollment or remove covered members of family from an enrollment pursuant to § 890.308.
(d)
Removal due to fraud or misrepresentation.
Pursuant to § 890.308(e)(3) and (f)(3), fraud or intentional misrepresentation of the fact of non-enrollment in,
or disenrollment from, Medicare Part B may be grounds for retroactive disenrollment and removal to the date of loss of eligibility.
(e)
Cancellation of PSHB in writing to the Postal Service due to lack of Medicare coverage.
As required by 5 U.S.C. 8903c(g)(3)(D), the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or a Medicare covered member of family may cancel coverage under this subpart in writing to the Postal Service because the individuals choose not to enroll in or to disenroll from Medicare Part B. In such a case, PSHB enrollment or coverage under this subpart will be cancelled as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The cancellation of a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant's PSHB plan enrollment—
(i) Is effective as of the last day of the last pay period in which the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant was enrolled in Medicare Part B, or the last day of the last pay period before the individual became a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant; and
(ii) Cancels the PSHB plan coverage of any family members covered under a self plus one or self and family enrollment, subject to applicable provisions at § 890.1609.
(2) The cancellation of a Medicare covered member of family's PSHB plan coverage is effective the last day in which the Medicare covered family member was enrolled in Medicare Part B, or the last day before the individual became eligible for Medicare but did not enroll.
(3) When writing to notify the Postal Service that a Medicare covered member of family will not enroll in or will disenroll from Medicare Part B, the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant may elect to decrease their PSHB plan enrollment type as described in § 890.306(e).
(4) Cancellation of PSHB enrollment or coverage under this paragraph (e) shall be treated as a termination and an enrollee or covered family member whose enrollment or coverage is canceled is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and right of conversion in accordance with § 890.401.
(f)
Temporary extension of coverage and conversion.
A Postal Service employee, Postal Service annuitant, or their covered family member whose enrollment or coverage is terminated other than by cancellation of the enrollment or discontinuance of the plan, in whole or part, is entitled to a 31-day temporary extension of coverage and right of conversion in accordance with § 890.401.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85029, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1609
Temporary extension of coverage, conversion, or temporary continuation of coverage.
(a) A 31-day temporary extension of coverage and right of conversion under subpart D of this part is available from the health benefits plan under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 in which the enrollee or covered family member was most recently enrolled or covered.
(b) If an individual was enrolled in or covered by a PSHB plan until becoming eligible for temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part, the individual may elect coverage under subpart K by a PSHB plan offered under this subpart.
§ 890.1610
Minimum standards for PSHB Program plans and Carriers.
(a)
Minimum standards for PSHB plans.
To qualify for approval by OPM, a health benefits plan under this subpart shall—
(1) Meet the minimum standards for health benefits plans at § 890.201, unless otherwise stated in this subpart;
(2) Provide prescription drug benefits pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8903c(h)(2);
(3) Provide equivalent benefits and cost-sharing in the initial contract year to the carrier's FEHB plan, as applicable, pursuant to section 8903c(c)(2);
(4) Maintain separate reserves, including contingency reserves, with respect to enrollees in each PSHB plan as directed by OPM; and
(5) Begin coverage on January 1 of each year.
(b)
Minimum standards for PSHB Carriers.
The minimum standards for health benefits carriers under this subpart shall be those contained in 48 CFR 1609.70.
(c)
Approval of plans with 1,500 or more Postal enrollees.
To the greatest extent practicable, in the initial contract
year, OPM shall approve a health benefits plan offered by a carrier under this subpart that has equivalent benefits and cost-sharing to the FEHB plan offered by that carrier in which the total enrollment of Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants was 1,500 or more in the 2023 contract year. OPM may exempt a comprehensive medical plan, as described in 5 U.S.C. 8903(4), from the requirement in this paragraph (c).
(d)
Withdrawal of plan approval.
Failure on the part of the PSHB Carrier's plan to meet the standards in this section is cause for OPM's withdrawal of approval of the plan in accordance with § 890.1611.
§ 890.1611
Withdrawal of approval of health benefits plan or carrier.
(a) OPM may withdraw approval of a health benefits plan or carrier under this subpart and may give notice of non-renewal of a contract pursuant to § 890.204 if the standards in § 890.1610 and 48 CFR 1609.70 are not met.
(b) Contracts to offer health benefits plans in the PSHB Program pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8903c(c)(1)(A) are subject to nonrenewal in accordance with § 890.205.
§ 890.1612
Information sharing.
(a) OPM shall establish periodic agreements with the Social Security Administration regarding Postal Service annuitants and their eligible family members for purposes of:
(1) Determining whether Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants and Medicare covered members of family of those annuitants satisfy the Medicare enrollment requirements at § 890.1604; and
(2) Determining which Postal Service annuitants and family members of such annuitants may be eligible to enroll in Medicare Part B under section 1837(o) of the Social Security Act.
(b) OPM shall identify Postal Service annuitants and their eligible family members who may be covered Medicare individuals from OPM's stored enrollment data. OPM will provide identifying information about these annuitants and their eligible family members to the Social Security Administration via secure data transfer for the purposes as outlined in the periodic agreements.
(c) OPM shall establish periodic agreements with the Department of Health and Human Services, the United States Postal Service, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and other Federal agencies as needed to share data and information as is necessary to carry out 5 U.S.C. 8903c and this subpart.
(d) These agreements shall specify, at a minimum, the purpose and legal authorities that govern the elements of information or data to be shared, the process that will be used for sharing the information or data, the frequency of sharing the information and data, and the permitted uses and redisclosure of the information and data.
(e) The agreements established under paragraph (c) of this section shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that data is shared for the following purposes:
(1) To determine which Postal Service employees or Postal Service annuitants may be eligible to enroll in a PSHB plan; and which family members may be covered;
(2) To determine which Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants and their Medicare covered members of family may be subject to the enrollment requirements described in § 890.1604; and
(3) To create a system for data sharing as needed for carrying out 5 U.S.C. 8903c and this subpart.
(f) If a source agency has provided information or data, regarding a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or Medicare covered member of family, which establishes a basis that the individual may be ineligible for PSHB enrollment or coverage, OPM will provide the individual with written notice that will contain at a minimum:
(1) An explanation of the PSHB enrollment requirements and exceptions described in § 890.1604 and the specific information or data provided to OPM from the source agency that was the basis for the notice;
(2) The source agency's contact information where the individual may ask questions or contest the accuracy of the information or data on which OPM based the notice;
(3) An explanation of the required process and timeframe(s) for providing OPM with evidence that the individual is engaged in a dispute with the source agency identified in the notice for the purposes of seeking the source agency's correction of the information or data, affecting the individual's PSHB eligibility, provided to OPM pursuant to the agreements described in this section;
(4) That the individual will remain enrolled or covered under PSHB while the individual is engaged in disputing the information or data with the source agency, as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section;
(5) That the individual will be disenrolled or removed from PSHB, as described in § 890.1608 and subject to reconsideration, within 60 days of the date of the notice if the individual does not provide sufficient evidence, in the discretion of OPM, as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section; and
(6) That the individual will be disenrolled or removed from PSHB, as described in § 890.1608 and subject to reconsideration, within 60 days of the notice, notwithstanding evidence of a dispute, if the information or data OPM receives from the source agency continues to provide no basis for OPM to establish that the individual satisfies PSHB enrollment requirements.
(g) OPM will issue an initial decision in accordance with § 890.1607(b)(3). If an individual will be disenrolled or removed from PSHB based on the information or data from the source agency, in paragraph (f) of this section, the individual will be notified in writing that the disenrollment or removal, as applicable, is subject to reconsideration pursuant to § 890.1607, and that such reconsideration is limited to a review of the source agency's data or information, received pursuant to an agreement under this section or 5 U.S.C. 8903c(e)(3)(C) that was before OPM at the time it effectuated the disenrollment or removal action.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85030, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1613
Postal Service contract year beginning date, Medicare late enrollment penalty, calculations for the Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund, and clarification of statutory terms.
(a)
In general.
The calculations for contributions and withholdings for coverage under this subpart will be made in the same manner as 5 U.S.C. 8906 and subpart E of this part. For purposes of this subpart, the subscription charge and the Government contribution under 5 U.S.C. 8906(b) will begin on January 1 of each year for Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants.
(b)
Postal Service contribution.
The Government contribution with respect to the Postal Service for health benefits plans under this subpart shall be determined annually in accordance with § 890.501 commencing 2024 using the weighted average of rates offered by PSHB plans for the following year with respect to self only, self plus one, and self and family enrollments. For the initial contract year, the weighted average applicable for determining the Government contribution by the Postal Service will be determined using the calculation at 5 U.S.C. 8903c(i), except that OPM will use available data with respect to Postal Service enrollment for 2024, taking into account 2023 data.
(c)
Medicare late enrollment penalty.
Upon request by the Postal Service, and only until the Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8909a is depleted, OPM will pay out of such Fund any late enrollment penalties required under section 1839(e)(1) of the Social Security Act for individuals who enrolled during the Special Enrollment Period established under section 1837(o) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395p). If at any time the PSRHBF is depleted, USPS shall pay late enrollment penalties out of its funds established under 39 U.S.C. 2003. In making such late enrollment penalty payments, OPM, as administrator of the Fund under 5 U.S.C. 8909a(a), will prioritize the payment of health benefit premiums for individuals described in 5 U.S.C. 8906(g)(2)(A), over the late enrollment penalties.
(d)
Calculations for the Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund.
As directed by 5 U.S.C. 8909a OPM shall make annual computations with respect to the cost of claims attributable to Postal Service annuitants and their covered family members, and the United States Postal Service shall pay into the Fund annually according to those computations.
(e)
Clarification of statutory terms.
(1) OPM has determined that “net claims costs” in the calculation in 5 U.S.C. 8909a(e)(1) is equivalent to “estimated net claims costs” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8909a(g).
(2) The computations for post-retirement health obligations computed under 39 U.S.C. 3654(b) shall be performed using an aggregate entry-age normal cost method described in 5 U.S.C. 8331(17) and in accordance with 8348(h).
(3) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8348(h), for purposes of computing the amounts described in 39 U.S.C. 3654(b), this includes:
(i) Current annuitants as described in 5 U.S.C. 8909a(e)(1)(A) means individuals who are Postal Service annuitants on September 30 of the relevant reporting year described in 5 U.S.C. 8909a(d); and
(ii) Current employees as described in 5 U.S.C. 8909a(e)(1)(B) means individuals who are Postal Service employees on September 30 of that year.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1614
Other administrative provisions.
(a)
Correction of errors.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the employing office or OPM may make prospective or retroactive corrections of administrative errors at any time. Retroactive corrections may not apply retroactively beyond the initial contract year.
(2) OPM may order or make, as applicable, a correction of an administrative error upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.
(3) OPM may make retroactive correction of enrollee enrollment code errors if the enrollee reports the error by the end of the pay period following the one in which they received the first written documentation (
i.e.,
pay statement or enrollment change confirmation) indicating the error.
(4) OPM may order the termination of an enrollment in any comprehensive medical plan described in 5 U.S.C. 8903(4) and permit the individual to enroll in another PSHB plan for purposes of this subpart, upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that the furnishing of adequate medical care is jeopardized by a seriously impaired relationship between a patient and the comprehensive medical plan's affiliated health care providers.
(5) Retroactive corrections are subject to withholdings and contributions under the provisions of §§ 890.502 and 890.1613.
(b)
Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries.
Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries must follow the requirements of § 890.106.
(c)
Enrollment reconciliation.
(1) OPM and each PSHB Carrier must, at OPM's direction and in the manner requested by OPM, reconcile PSHB plan enrollment records, including with a list of the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants and their Medicare covered members of family that satisfy the Medicare enrollment requirements at § 890.1604.
(2) Any Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or a Medicare covered member of family of such annuitant that is found to be enrolled or covered under a PSHB plan without satisfying the Medicare enrollment requirements at § 890.1604 shall be disenrolled or removed pursuant to § 890.1608.
(d)
Information about PSHB Program enrollment requirements.
OPM shall provide timely information about PSHB Program enrollment requirements to the United States Postal Service to disseminate to Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members. Any requests for more information should be directed, in writing, to the United States Postal Service.
(e)
All other provisions.
Other requirements of this part not referenced within this subpart shall be interpreted to apply to the PSHB Program consistent
with definitions and deemed references, unless it conflicts with this subpart, as determined by the Director.
(f)
Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between a provision of this subpart and a provision in this part, as determined by the Director, this subpart will supersede.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1615
Crediting separate reserves for PSHB.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section concerning crediting separate reserves from FEHB Options to PSHB Options, and for these purposes only, the following definitions apply:
2024 FEHB Option premium
means, for a 2024 FEHB Option, the 2024 premium attributable to both Postal Service and non-Postal Service enrollees.
2024 Postal Service premium
means, for a 2024 FEHB Option, the 2024 premium attributable to Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants as defined under 5 U.S.C. 8903c(a).
Amounts available
means:
(i) With respect to experience-rated 2024 FEHB Options, the sum of the balances in the Option's Contingency Reserve Account and Letter of Credit Account less the Runout as of December 31, 2024; and
(ii) With respect to community-rated 2024 FEHB Options, the Option's Contingency Reserve Account balance as of December 31, 2024.
Corresponding PSHB option
means a 2025 PSHB Option that is in the same geographic area and has equivalent benefits and cost-sharing as a 2025 FEHB Option, and that 2025 FEHB Option was also offered in 2024 by the same carrier.
Option
means a level of benefits offered by a carrier to self only, self plus one, and self and family enrollees in a specific geographic area, with a unique set of premiums.
Plan
means all Options offered by a carrier within a defined geographic area under a single contract.
Runout
means the amount estimated by OPM, as of December 31, 2024, needed to pay claims and expenses incurred but not paid for periods on or before December 31, 2024, for an experience-rated FEHB Option, considering any income attributable to periods on or before, but not yet received by, December 31, 2024.
(b)
Reserve credits.
As soon as practicable on or after January 1, 2025, OPM will credit each PSHB Option's reserves according to the method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Reserve credit methodology.
OPM will determine the Reserve credit for each 2024 FEHB Option and allocate it to the PSHB.
(1) OPM will determine the 2024 Postal Service premium by multiplying a 2024 FEHB Option's self only, self plus one, and self and family 2024 premiums by the number of Postal Service enrollments of that Option in each enrollment type and taking the sum of these three amounts.
(2) OPM will determine the 2024 FEHB Option premium by multiplying each 2024 FEHB Option's self only, self plus one, and self and family premiums by the number of total enrollments (inclusive of both Postal Service and non-Postal Service enrollments) in each enrollment type for that Option and taking the sum of these three amounts. OPM will use its March 2024 enrollment reports to determine the total enrollments.
(3) OPM will calculate the Postal Service Percentage for each 2024 FEHB Option by dividing the 2024 Postal Service Premium by 2024 FEHB Option Premium.
(4) OPM will calculate the Reserve Credit by multiplying the Postal Service Percentage for each 2024 FEHB Option by the Amounts Available for that Option.
(5) OPM will reallocate the Reserve Credit for each 2024 FEHB Option into a PSHB Contingency Reserves and Letter of Credit Account, as applicable, as follows:
(i) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with one, two, or three Options in 2024 and offers the same number of Corresponding PSHB Options in 2025, the Reserve Credits for those Options will be allocated to the Corresponding PSHB Options' reserves.
(ii) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with two or three Options in 2024 and offers only one Corresponding PSHB Option in 2025, the Reserve Credits attributable to all the 2024 FEHB Plan's
Options will be allocated to that Corresponding PSHB Option's reserve.
(iii) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with three Options in 2024 and offers only two Corresponding PSHB Options in 2025, the Reserve Credits attributable to the two FEHB Options that have Corresponding PSHB Options will be allocated to those two Corresponding PSHB Options' reserves. The Reserve Credit from the third FEHB Option (that does not have a Corresponding PSHB Option) will be allocated to one of the two Corresponding PSHB Plan Options that has the lowest self only premium and is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).
(iv) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan in 2024 and offers no FEHB Plan in 2025, but offers at least one 2025 PSHB Option with similar benefits and cost sharing and in the same geographic area as the carrier's 2024 FEHB Plan, as determined by OPM, the Reserve Credit(s) attributable to that FEHB Plan will be credited to the reserves of the carrier's 2025 PSHB Options as described in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section as if the 2025 PSHB Option(s) were a Corresponding PSHB Option.
(v) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan in 2024, and offers that FEHB Plan in 2025, but offers no Corresponding PSHB Options for that 2025 FEHB Plan, the Reserve Credit(s) attributable to that FEHB Plan will be credited to the reserves of the PSHB Options offered in 2025, proportionately, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8903c(j)(2) where the subscription charges paid are the 2024 Postal Service Premium.
(vi) If a carrier offers a 2025 PSHB Option for which no 2024 Postal Service Premium is attributable, then that 2025 PSHB Option will receive no Reserve Credit.
[89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.1616
Medicare Part D.
(a)
Carrier requirement to offer Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits.
(1) A carrier that offers a PSHB plan must provide prescription drug benefits to any Postal Service annuitant and member of family of such annuitant who is a Part D-eligible individual (as defined in section 1860D-1(a)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act) through a Medicare Part D EGWP as described as employer-based retiree health coverage under section 1860D-22(b), (c)(1), and (3)(A) of such Act .
(2) A carrier must provide Medicare Part D coverage through a prescription drug plan (PDP), as defined in section 1860D-41(a)(14) of such Act, or through contracts between the PSHB plan and a PDP sponsor, as defined in section 1860D-41(a)(13) of such Act, of such a prescription drug plan.
(3) A carrier may, in addition to offering a PDP required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and subject to OPM's approval, offer a Medicare Advantage plan with prescription drug coverage (MAPD), as defined in section 1860D-1(a)(3)(C) of such Act.
(b)
Prescription drug coverage under a PSHB plan through Medicare Part D.
A Postal Service annuitant and a member of family of such annuitant who is a Part D-eligible individual must be enrolled in a PSHB plan's Part D EGWP in order to receive prescription drug coverage under the PSHB plan. The prescription drug benefit is not covered under a PSHB plan for a Part D-eligible individual who is not enrolled in the PSHB plan's Part D EGWP.
(1)
Prescription Drug Coverage for Medicare Part D-eligible annuitants and members of family residing outside of the United States.
A carrier will not group enroll, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, a Medicare Part D-eligible Postal Service annuitant or a member of family of such annuitant who resides outside of the United States (which includes the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands) into the Medicare Part D EGWP offered by the plan. A carrier must provide prescription drug coverage through the PSHB plan to these individuals.
(c)
PSHB plan enrollment or disenrollment and Medicare EGWPs.
Changes to enrollment during Open Season under § 890.301(f) or because of a qualifying life event as defined in part 892 of this chapter apply with respect to changes to PSHB plans that include a Medicare Part D EGWP.
(d)
Carrier requirements for group enrollment into Medicare EGWPs.
A carrier must comply with all applicable CMS requirements regarding Part D-eligible individual group enrollment into Medicare EGWPs, including all applicable CMS notice requirements. Nothing in this section shall be construed as affecting an individual's ability to select a PSHB plan pursuant to § 890.1606.
(1)
PDP EGWP.
Annually at the conclusion of Open Season under § 890.301(f), or when an enrollee makes a change to their PSHB enrollment because of a qualifying life event under § 892.101 of this chapter, a carrier must automatically group enroll a Part D-eligible individual, who is covered by the carrier's PSHB plan, into the PSHB plan's PDP EGWP, unless the individual:
(i) Elects to enroll or is enrolled in the PSHB plan's MAPD EGWP described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or
(ii) Has opted out of group enrollment in the PSHB plan's PDP EGWP or MAPD EGWP for the current or upcoming plan year, as applicable.
(2)
MAPD EGWP.
Annually, at the conclusion of Open Season under § 890.301(f), or when an enrollee makes a change to their PSHB enrollment because of a qualifying life event, a carrier must automatically enroll a Part D-eligible individual who is covered by the carrier's PSHB plan into the carrier's PSHB plan's MAPD EGWP if the individual elects to enroll in the carrier's MAPD EGWP. During the transitional Open Season, a carrier must automatically enroll a Part D-eligible individual into the carrier's 2025 PSHB plan's MAPD EGWP if the individual is covered by that carrier's 2024 FEHB plan's MAPD EGWP, and if the individual elects the carrier's 2025 PSHB plan or is automatically enrolled into the carrier's 2025 PSHB plan under § 890.1605.
(3)
Notice.
In addition to the CMS notice requirements, each year, not less than 30 calendar days prior to the start of Open Season under § 890.301(f), a carrier must send written notice to Part D-eligible individuals who are enrolled in the carrier's PSHB plan that they will be group enrolled into the PDP EGWP offered under the carrier's PSHB plan. In addition, when an enrollee makes a change because of a qualifying life event, a carrier must send such written notice to the Part D-eligible individuals covered under the enrollment. The notice shall state:
(i) The carrier intends to enroll the individual in the carrier's Medicare Part D PDP EGWP as described under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or MAPD EGWP as described under paragraph (d)(2) of this section as applicable, during Open Season under § 890.301(f), or as a result of a qualifying life event, as applicable;
(ii) The individual may affirmatively opt out of group enrollment;
(iii) Opting out of group enrollment means that the individual is deciding not to be enrolled in the PSHB plan's PDP EGWP, or MAPD EGWP if applicable;
(iv) The date by which the individual must opt out of group enrollment, if the individual chooses to opt out;
(v) The procedure for how an individual affirmatively opts out of group enrollment;
(vi) The individual will not receive prescription drug coverage under the PSHB plan if the individual is not enrolled in the PSHB plan's PDP EGWP, or MAPD EGWP if applicable; and
(vii) That no adjustment will be made to the enrollee's share of the PSHB plan option premium.
(4)
Additional requirements for PSHB plans providing an MAPD EGWP.
If a PSHB plan offers an MAPD EGWP, the carrier must comply with all applicable Medicare requirements and the carrier must also provide the notices as described in (d)(3) of this section. In addition, such notice must state how the individual can enroll in the PSHB plan's PDP EGWP if the individual is opting out of group enrollment or disenrolling from a PSHB plan's MAPD EGWP during Open Season or as a result of a qualifying life event, the date by which the individual must enroll in the PDP EGWP, and must state that if the individual is required to be enrolled in Medicare Part B in order to maintain eligibility for PSHB plan coverage and does not qualify for an exception under § 890.1604, the individual must remain enrolled in Part B.
(5)
Notices to be shared with OPM.
A carrier must provide OPM with the notices under this section and the notices that CMS requires regarding PDP EGWP and MAPD EGWP group enrollment each year, at the time the carrier submits its benefits and rate proposal.
(e)
Effect of opting out of group enrollment into or disenrolling from a Medicare EGWP
—(1)
Effect of opting out of group enrollment.
By opting out of group enrollment in a PSHB plan's Medicare PDP EGWP or MAPD EGWP, as applicable, the individual will not receive prescription drug coverage under the PSHB plan unless, during the Open Season or pursuant to the qualifying life event in which the individual opted out of group enrollment, the individual elects to enroll in a Part D EGWP under their PSHB plan.
(2)
Opportunity to enroll other than group enrollment.
A Part D-eligible individual may enroll in a PDP EGWP or, if eligible, an MAPD EGWP, under a PSHB plan, under the same conditions that govern enrollment in a PSHB plan during Open Season or pursuant to a qualifying life event.
(3)
Disenrollment.
An individual may disenroll from their PSHB plan's Part D EGWP at any time during the plan year which means they will not receive prescription drug coverage under the PSHB plan.
(4)
Enrollment flexibility.
A Part D-eligible individual who is not enrolled in the PDP EGWP or MAPD EGWP, as applicable, for prescription drug benefits offered by their PSHB plan may request enrollment into their PSHB plan's EGWP outside of Open Enrollment or a qualifying life event to correct errors.
(i)
Part D EGWP Enrollment Flexibility.
A Part D-eligible individual who opts out of Part D EGWP group enrollment or disenrolls from their PSHB plan's Part D EGWP can request enrollment into their plan's Part D EGWP within 90 days of the start of plan year or 90 days from the effective date of coverage after a qualifying life event that permitted a plan change. Enrollments made under this paragraph (e)(4)(i) will be retroactive to the extent consistent with applicable CMS regulations.
(ii)
Exceptional circumstances.
A Part D-eligible individual who opts out of Part D EGWP group enrollment or disenrolls from their PSHB plan's Part D EGWP can request enrollment into their plan's Part D EGWP 91 days or more after the start of the plan year or the effective date of coverage after a qualifying life event that permitted a plan change as determined by OPM. Enrollments made under this paragraph (e)(4)(ii) will be prospective.
(iii) Changes to enrollment under this paragraph (e)(4) are limited to new enrollments into the individual's current PSHB plan's Part D EGWP.
(f)
PDP EGWP and MAPD EGWP prescription drug benefits.
A carrier must provide prescription drug benefits to a PSHB EGWP plan's Part D-eligible covered individuals that are equal to or better than the prescription drug benefits provided to that PSHB plan's covered individuals who are not eligible to enroll in Part D and not enrolled in the plan's EGWP, subject to paragraph (f)(3) of this section. For purposes of this section:
(1) A carrier must ensure that a Medicare Part D EGWP within the PSHB Program includes the same medications, products, and supplies covered in the corresponding plan option's PSHB pharmacy benefit with the same or lower cost sharing, to the extent consistent with applicable Medicare provisions; and
(2) A carrier must not reduce or otherwise limit prescription drug benefits to meet this standard, for example by limiting the coverage of medications, products, and supplies or increasing cost sharing of the prescription drug benefits provided to individuals covered under the PSHB plan who are not eligible for Part D.
(3) A carrier may request OPM approval to offer different medications, products, or supplies, or modify cost sharing on their EGWP formulary. OPM has discretion to determine whether and to what extent a carrier request under this subsection is necessary and consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8903c.
[89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]
Pt. 891

# PART 891—RETIRED FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
891.101
Relationship to part 890 of this chapter.
891.102
Definitions.
891.103
Eligibility.
891.104
Responsibilities of retirement offices.
891.105
Correction of errors.
891.106
Reconsideration.

# Subpart B—Election and Change of Election
891.201
Election.
891.202
Change of election.

# Subpart C—Suspension and Termination
891.301
Suspension and termination.

# Subpart D—Contributions and Withholdings
891.401
Government contributions.
891.402
Withholdings.

# Subpart E—Standards for Uniform Plan and Carrier
891.501
Standards for uniform plan.
891.502
Standards for carrier of uniform plan.

# Authority:
80 Stat. 607; 5 U.S.C. 8913.

# Source:
33 FR 12516, Sept. 4, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 891.101
Relationship to part 890 of this chapter.
This part does not apply to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program which is governed by part 890 of this chapter. Part 890 of this chapter does not apply to the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program which is governed by this part.
§ 891.102
Definitions.
In this part:
(a)
Annuity
means the periodic payment due a former employee or his/her survivors by reason of past service, but does not include compensation paid under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Annuity period
means the period for which an installment of annuity is paid.
(c)
Bureau of Employees' Compensation
means the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, Department of Labor.
(d)
Carrier
means a voluntary association, corporation, partnership, or other nongovernmental organization which lawfully offers a health benefits plan.
(e)
Compensation
means monthly compensation paid under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, and includes compensation payable every 4 weeks.
(f)
Elect
means to file with the retirement office under which retired or with the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, as the case may be, a properly completed form, prescribed by OPM for the purpose, giving notice of intention (1) to subscribe to the uniform plan, (2) to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan, or (3) not to participate in the program.
(g)
Employee
means an appointive or elective officer or employee in or under the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the United States Government, including a Government-owned or controlled corporation (but not including any corporation under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, of which corporation any member of the board of directors is elected or appointed by private interests), or of the government of the District of Columbia, and includes an Official Reporter of Debates of the Senate and a person employed by the Official Reporters of Debates of the Senate in connection with the performance of their official duties, and an employee of Gallaudet College, but does not include (1) a member of a “uniformed service” as that term is defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code, (2) a noncitizen employee whose permanent-duty station is located outside a State of the United States or the District of Columbia, or (3) an employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
(h)
Government
means the Government of the United States of America and the government of the District of Columbia.
(i)
Health benefits plan
means an individual or group insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service arrangement, membership or subscription contract, or similar agreement provided by a carrier for a stated periodic premium or subscription charge for the purpose of providing, paying for, or reimbursing expenses for hospital care, surgical or medical diagnosis, care, and treatment, drugs and medicines, remedial care, or other medical supplies and services, or any combination of these.
(j)
Immediate annuity
means (1) as applied to a retired employee, an annuity which begins to accrue not later than 1 month after the date of the separation from the service on which title to the annuity is based; and (2) as applied to a survivor, an annuity which begins to accrue not later than 1 month (i) after the date of death of the employee or annuitant whose service forms the basis for the annuity, or (ii) after the birth of a posthumous child of such an employee or annuitant.
(k)
Member of family
means a former employee's spouse and any unmarried child (1) under 19 years of age (including (i) an adopted child, and (ii) a stepchild or recognized natural child who lives with the former employee in a regular parent-child relationship or did so at the time of the former employee's death); or (2) regardless of age who is incapable of self-support because of mental or physical disability that existed before the child became 19 years of age. As used in this paragraph,
Former employee
means the former employee on whose service title to annuity is based.
(l)
Private health benefits plan
means a health benefits plan other than the uniform plan.
(m)
Retired employee
includes (1) a former employee retired under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, or other retirement system for civilian employees of the Government (not including the social security system), (2) an employee or former employee receiving compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, and (3) persons who are entitled to annuity or compensation as members of the family of a deceased employee or of a deceased retired employee qualifying under paragraphs (m) (1) and (2) of this section.
(n)
Retirement office
means (1) any office responsible for the administration of a retirement system for civilian employees of the Government; and (2) the Bureau of Employees' Compensation.
(o)
Service
means service which is creditable for the purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
(p)
Survivor
means a person who is entitled to annuity or compensation as a member of the family of a deceased employee or deceased retired employee.
(q)
Uniform plan
means the health benefits plan for which OPM contracts pursuant to section 3, 74 Stat. 849.
§ 891.103
Eligibility.
(a)
General conditions of eligibility.
(1) A retired employee who is enrolled or covered by the enrollment of another under part 890 of this chapter, or who is covered by the election of another retired employee under this part, is ineligible to subscribe to the uniform plan or to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan.
(2) A retired employee is ineligible to subscribe to the uniform plan if his/her annuity or compensation is not sufficient to cover the necessary withholding.
(3) An annuitant who enrolled under § 890.601, and who later cancels such enrollment, is ineligible to subscribe to the uniform plan or to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan.
(b)
Retired employees (other than survivors) entitled to annuity.
A retired employee (other than a survivor) who is entitled to an annuity is eligible for the benefits provided by this part if—
(1) He/She retired before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960;
(2) He/She retired on immediate annuity;
(3) He/She had at least 12 years of creditable service, or retired under a disability provision of his/her retirement system;
(4) He/She retired from employment which was not in the Tennessee Valley Authority or in a corporation under
the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, of which corporation any member of the board of directors was elected or appointed by private interests; and
(5) At the time of retirement, he/she was a citizen, or a noncitizen having a permanent-duty station within the several States or the District of Columbia on the day before retirement.
For the purpose of this paragraph, an employee is considered to have retired before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960, if his/her annuity began to accrue before his/her first pay period after June 30, 1960, or if he/she was eligible under paragraph (d) of this section until the date his/her annuity began to accrue.
(c)
Survivors entitled to annuity.
A survivor who is entitled to annuity is eligible for the benefits provided by this part if he/she is:
(1) In receipt of immediate annuity as the survivor of (i) an employee who died before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960; or (ii) a retired employee whose annuity began to accrue before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960;
(2) The survivor of (i) an employee who had at least 5 years' creditable service, (ii) a former employee who retired having at least 12 years' creditable service and received an immediate annuity, or (iii) a former employee who retired under a disability provision of his/her retirement system; and
(3) Not receiving annuity as the survivor of a person who at the time of the retirement or death, as the case may be, on which annuity is based, was an employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority or of any corporation under the jurisdiction of the Farm Credit Administration of which corporation any member of the board of directors was elected or appointed by private interests, or was a noncitizen having a permanent-duty station outside the several States and the District of Columbia.
(d)
Retired employees (other than survivors) entitled to compensation.
A retired employee (other than a survivor) who is entitled to compensation is eligible for the benefits provided by this part if—
(1) He/She is receiving monthly compensation for an injury sustained or illness contracted before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960;
(2) He/She is held by the Secretary of Labor to be unable to return to duty;
(3) He/She is receiving compensation based on employment which was not in the Tennessee Valley Authority or in a corporation under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, of which corporation any member of the board of directors was elected or appointed by private interests; and
(4) At the time of sustaining the injury or contracting the illness, as the case may be, on which compensation is based, he/she was a citizen, or a noncitizen having a permanent-duty station within the several States or the District of Columbia at that time.
(e)
Family members entitled to compensation.
A member of a family who is receiving compensation is eligible for the benefits provided by this part if he/she is:
(1) A survivor beneficiary of (i) an employee who completed 5 years of service and died as a result of injury or illness which is compensable under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, and which was sustained or contracted before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960, or (ii) a former employee who was separated after having completed at least 5 years of service and who died while receiving monthly compensation under that subchapter on account of injury sustained or illness contracted before his/her first pay period beginning after June 30, 1960, and who has been held by the Secretary of Labor to have been unable to return to duty; and
(2) Not receiving compensation as the survivor of a person who at the time of sustaining the injury or contracting the illness, as the case may be, on which compensation is based, was an employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority or of any corporation under the jurisdiction of the Farm Credit Administration of which corporation any member of the board of directors was elected or appointed by private interests, or was a noncitizen having a permanent-duty station outside the several States and the District of Columbia.
(f)
Determinations of eligibility.
The Associate Director for Compensation of OPM, on request, shall determine the eligibility of a retired employee, or class of retired employees, to make the elections and receive the Government contributions provided for by this part.
[33 FR 12516, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978]
§ 891.104
Responsibilities of retirement offices.
(a) The Office of Worker's Compensation Program is responsible only for retired employees who are receiving compensation from the Office and is responsible even though the retired employee has retired under another retirement office from which he/she is not currently receiving annuity. If the retired employee is currently receiving annuity from another retirement office, that retirement office, rather than the Office of Worker's Compensation Program, will have the responsibilities imposed on retirement offices by this part for that retired employee.
(b) Retirement offices are responsible, in accordance with regulations and instructions issued by OPM, for withholding from the annuity or compensation of each retired employee within the jurisdiction of the retirement office who elects to subscribe to the uniform plan his/her share of the cost, for forwarding the amount withheld to the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Fund, and for reporting to OPM amounts required for Government contribution for these retired employees.
(c) Retirement offices are responsible, in accordance with regulations and instructions issued by OPM, for reporting to OPM amounts required for Government contributions to retired employees within the jurisdiction of the retirement office who have elected to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan, and for paying the Government contributions to these retired employees.
(d) Retirement offices are responsible for advising retired employees within the jurisdiction of the retirement office of the rights and obligations of retired employees under this part.
(e) When one or more of the family members is a child 19 years of age or older who is incapable of self-support because of mental or physical disability which existed before the child became 19 years of age, the appropriate retirement office shall obtain the necessary evidence and make a determination of incapacity.
(f) Retirement offices are responsible, in accordance with regulations and instructions issued by OPM, for verifying continuing eligibility of retired employees to receive Government contributions.
§ 891.105
Correction of errors.
OPM may order correction of administrative errors at any time upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.
[45 FR 23637, Apr. 8, 1980]
§ 891.106
Reconsideration.
(a)
Who may file.
A retired employee may request OPM to reconsider its initial decision that he/she is not eligible to make an election or to receive a Government contribution under the part or that he/she may not enroll another individual as a family member.
(b)
Initial OPM decision.
An OPM decision shall be considered an initial decision as used in § 891.106(a) of this part, when rendered by OPM in writing and stating the right to reconsideration. However, a decision initially rendered at the highest level of review available within OPM will not be subject to reconsideration.
(c)
Reconsideration.
A request for reconsideration must be made in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth, claim number, if appropriate, and reasons for the request.
(d)
Time limit.
A request for reconsideration of an initial OPM decision must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of OPM's initial decision. OPM may extend the time limit on filing when the individual shows that he/she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he/she was prevented by circumstances beyond his/her control from making the request within the time limit.
(e)
Final decision.
After reconsideration, OPM shall issue a final decision which shall be in writing and shall fully set forth the findings and conclusions of OPM.
[45 FR 23637, Apr. 8, 1980]

# Subpart B—Election and Change of Election
§ 891.201
Election.
(a) The original period for election by each eligible retired employee was during the months of March and April 1961. Failure to elect when eligible to do so is deemed an election not to participate in the program unless the failure is determined by the retirement office to be for cause beyond the control of the retired employee. In any case in which annuity or compensation is being paid to a payee in behalf of a retired employee, the payee shall make the election for the retired employee.
(b) (1) A retired employee may elect to participate in the program for self alone or for self and family.
(2) Survivors, if actually or constructively living in the same household, have only one right of election among them. The election shall be made by the payee. The fact that one payee is receiving annuity or compensation for all members of the family is prima facie evidence that they are living in the same household. The existence of more than one payee is prima facie evidence that each payee and the survivors in whose behalf the payee is receiving annuity or compensation constitute a separate household, and each payee may elect for the survivors in whose behalf he is receiving annuity or compensation, but where a family is receiving annuity or compensation through more than one payee, one payee, with the consent of the other payees, may elect for the whole family.
(3) A retired employee may not be covered under more than one election.
(4) A retired employee who is entitled to more than one annuity or to compensation and annuity is entitled to only one election.
(c) Each retired employee who elects to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan shall file with his election a certificate of the carrier, on the form prescribed by OPM for the purpose, that he is a subscriber to a health benefits plan. OPM, or the appropriate retirement office, at any time may require that a retired employee renew the certificate, or may take such other action as it considers desirable to verify the continuing eligibility of the retired employee to receive a Government contribution. The appropriate retirement office may suspend the Government contribution when there is a reasonable doubt of the retired employee's continuing eligibility to receive the Government contribution.
(d) In the discretion of the retirement office, a representative of the retired employee having a written authorization to do so may elect for him.
(e) A person who was not eligible, during the months of March and April 1961, to elect to subscribe to the uniform plan or to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of a private health benefits plan, may apply to the appropriate retirement office when he becomes eligible. If the retirement office determines that he is eligible, it shall notify the retired employee that he is eligible to make an election in accordance with paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section within 60 days of the date of the notice. If the retirement office determines that a retired employee was unable, for cause beyond his control, to make an election within the time limits prescribed by this section, it shall notify the retired employee that he is eligible to make an election in accordance with paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section within 60 days of the date of the notice. Elections made under this paragraph are effective, for a retired employee receiving annuity and a survivor receiving compensation, on the first day of the third month following the month in which the retirement office receives the election. Withholdings and contributions are effective for months beginning on and after the first day of the second month following the month in which the retirement office receives the election. For any other retired employee receiving compensation, changes of election made under this paragraph are effective on the first day of the third 4-week period following the 4-week period in which the
Bureau of Employees' Compensation receives the election, and withholdings and contributions are effective beginning with the second 4-week period following receipt of the election. This paragraph does not apply to retired employees who have been, at any time, covered by the election of another under this part.
(f) Retired employees and survivors who, on January 1, 1973, were enrolled for either basic coverage only or major medical coverage only of the Uniform Plan are, effective January 1, 1973, automatically enrolled in basic plus major medical coverage of the Uniform Plan.
[33 FR 12516, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 37 FR 20845, Dec. 20, 1972]
§ 891.202
Change of election.
(a) When used in this section, “month” includes the 4-week period for which a retired employee (other than a survivor) receives compensation.
(b) A retired employee shall change his election in accordance with the following table:
Table of Required Changes
Event requiring change
Type of election to which requirement applies
Change required
Effective date of change
(1) Loss of member of family by death or otherwise, leaving only one person covered by the election
Election for self and family for uniform or private health benefits plan
Change to self alone
First day of month following the event requiring change. Changes in withholdings and contributions are effective for annuity or compensation accruing for the month in which the event requiring change occurs.
(2) Termination of subscription to a private health benefits plan for all persons covered by the election but the retired employee making the election
1
Election for self and family for private health benefits plan
......do
Do.
(3) Termination of subscription to a private health benefits plan for all persons covered by the election
1
Election for self alone or for self and family for private health benefits plan
Change to not participating (optional change may be made in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section)
Do.
1
If the termination is immediately succeeded by a similar subscription in another private health benefits plan a change of election is not required, but the retired employee shall file a certificate of the new carrier that he is a subscriber. A form for the certificate may be obtained from the retirement office.
(c) An annuitant may change his or her election in accordance with the following table by notifying his or her retirement system at any time:
Table of Optional Changes
Change permitted
Type of election from which changing
Effective date of change
(1) Change to not participating
Election for self alone or self and family for uniform or private health benefits plan
First day of month specified in notice to retirement system, or first day of month following receipt of notice by retirement system, whichever is later. Changes in withholdings and contributions are effective for annuity or compensation accruing for the month preceding the effective date of the change.
(2) Change to self alone in same plan
Election for self and family for uniform plan or private health benefits plan
Do.
(3) Change to private health benefits plan for self alone or self and family
Election for self alone or self and family for uniform plan
Do.
(4) Change to self and family in same plan
Election for self alone for uniform or private health benefits plan
First day of fourth month following the month in which notice is received by retirement system. Changes in withholdings and contributions are effective for annuity or compensation accruing for the third month following month in which notice is received by the retirement system.
(5) Change to self alone or self and family for uniform plan or private health benefits plan
Election not to participate
Do.
[33 FR 12516, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978]

# Subpart C—Suspension and Termination
§ 891.301
Suspension and termination.
(a) When used in this section, “month” includes the 4-week period for which a retired employee (other than a survivor) receives compensation.
(b) When compensation is entirely suspended or annuity is entirely waived or suspended, Government contributions are suspended. If the election is to subscribe to the uniform plan, and the annuity or compensation is suspended, or the annuity is waived to the extent that the retired employee's share of the cost cannot be withheld, withholdings and Government contributions are suspended, but the subscription continues.
(c) If the waiver or suspension covers 3 months or less, Government contributions and withholdings for the period of waiver or suspension shall be made when annuity payment is resumed. If the waiver or suspension covers more than 3 months, the retired employee's election is terminated effective at the end of the third month of waiver or suspension. A terminated election is renewed when annuity or compensation payment is resumed. When a terminated election is renewed pursuant to this paragraph, withholdings and Government contributions shall be made for the first 3 months of the waiver or suspension. Withholdings and Government contributions shall be made for annuity or compensation accruing after the election is renewed.
(d) If title of a retired employee to annuity or compensation is terminated, his eligibility under this part is terminated.
(e) If the eligibility of a retired employee is terminated and other members of the same family continue to be eligible under this part, the election of the former retired employee continues for the remainder of the family unless and until changed in accordance with § 891.202.

# Subpart D—Contributions and Withholdings
§ 891.401
Government contributions.
(a)
For retired employees and survivors receiving an annuity.
(1) Each month, an amount equal to the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) for such month shall be paid by the Office of Personnel Management, through the appropriate retirement office, to each retired employee or survivor who:
(i) Is in receipt of annuity for such month;
(ii) Is eligible for coverage under this part; and
(iii) Elects to receive a Government contribution toward his or her cost of coverage for:
(A) A private health insurance plan in which he or she is a subscriber for self-only; or
(B) Supplementary medical insurance under Medicare.
(2) Each month, an amount equal to the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) for such
month shall be contributed, by the Office of Personnel Management, for each retired employee or survivor who is in receipt of annuity and who has elected to enroll for self-only in the uniform plan.
(3) Each month, an amount equal to twice the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) for such month shall be paid by the Office of Personnel Management, through the appropriate retirement office, for each retired employee or survivor who:
(i) Is in receipt of an annuity for such month;
(ii) Is eligible for coverage under this part; and
(iii) Elects to receive a Government contribution toward the cost of coverage for self and family under:
(A) A private plan or plans; or
(B) Supplementary medical insurance under Medicare.
(4) Each month, an amount equal to twice the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) for such month shall be contributed, by the Office of Personnel Management, for each retired employee or survivor who is in receipt of annuity and who has elected to enroll for self and family in the uniform plan.
(b)
For retired employees and survivors receiving compensation.
(1) For each retired employee or survivor who is in receipt of compensation and who meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, other than the requirement of being in receipt of an annuity, the Office of Personnel Management shall contribute, through the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, an amount equal to 93
1/3
percent of the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) rounded to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as a whole cent, for each 4-week period in which payment of such compensation is made.
(2) For each retired employee or survivor who is in receipt of compensation and who has elected to enroll for self-only in the uniform plan, the Office of Personnel Management shall contribute, during each 4-week period in which payment of such compensation is made, an amount equal to 93
1/3
percent of the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) rounded to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as a whole cent.
(3) For each retired employee or survivor who is in receipt of compensation and who meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, other than the requirement of being in receipt of an annuity, the Office of Personnel Management shall contribute, through the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, an amount equal to 186
2/3
percent of the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary medical insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) rounded to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as a whole cent, for each 4-week period in which payment of such compensation is made.
(4) For each retired employee or survivor who is receiving compensation and has elected to enroll for self and family in the uniform plan, the Office of Personnel Management shall contribute, during each 4-week period in which payment of such compensation is made, an amount equal to 186
2/3
percent of the current monthly premium paid by an individual for supplementary insurance under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) rounded to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as a whole cent.
(5) If the current monthly rate for supplementary medical insurance under Medicare changes to a new rate within a 4-week period in which compensation is paid, the amount to be contributed for that 4-week period will be a prorated amount determined by:
(i) Multiplying the number of days in the 4-week pay period occurring at the former monthly rate (the rate in effect at the beginning of the pay period) by the former rate for a 4-week pay period;
(ii) Multiplying the number of days in the 4-week pay period occurring at
the new rate (the rate in effect at the end of the 4-week pay period) by the new 4-week rate;
(iii) Adding the products of paragraphs (b)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section; and
(iv) Dividing the sum by 28 and rounding to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as a whole cent.
(c) So that the Government contribution provided under this section is paid or contributed in advance, it shall be included in the payment of annuity or compensation for the month or pay period immediately preceding the month or pay period for which the Government contribution is due.
(d) An election to subscribe to the uniform plan constitutes an agreement by the retired employee or survivor that the retirement office may withhold from his or her annuity or compensation his or her share of the cost of the plan, as provided by this part.
(e) The Government shall contribute to the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Fund two percent of the total Government contribution authorized by this section for payment of expenses incurred by the Office of Personnel Management in administering this part.
[45 FR 30611, May 9, 1980]
§ 891.402
Withholdings.
The appropriate retirement office shall withhold from the annuity or compensation of each of its retired employees who has elected to subscribe to the uniform plan so much as is necessary to pay his share of the cost of his subscription. The withholdings shall be forwarded, in accordance with OPM instructions, to the Retired Employees Health Benefits Fund.

# Subpart E—Standards for Uniform Plan and Carrier
§ 891.501
Standards for uniform plan.
The uniform plan shall be open to all eligible retired employees and members of their families, without regard to race, sex, health status, or age. It shall not deny or limit benefits because of any preexisting condition. It shall offer basic plus major medical coverage. It shall provide a 31-day extension of coverage on termination of subscription other than by change of election or termination of the contract. A person confined in hospital for care or treatment on the 31st day of the extension of coverage shall be entitled to continuation of the benefits of the contract during the continuance of the confinement, but not beyond the 60th day following the end of the extension of coverage. The uniform plan shall be experience-rated.
[33 FR 12516, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 43 FR 35018, Aug. 8, 1978]
§ 891.502
Standards for carrier of uniform plan.
In the most recent year for which data are available, the carrier of the uniform plan shall have made at least 1 percent of all group health insurance benefit payments in the United States. If the carrier is an insurance company, it must be licensed to issue group health insurance in all the States of the United States and the District of Columbia.
Pt. 892

# PART 892—FEDERAL FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN: PRE-TAX PAYMENT OF HEALTH BENEFITS PREMIUMS

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
892.101
Definitions.
892.102
What is premium conversion and how does it work?
892.103
What can I do if I disagree with my agency's decision about my pre-or post-tax election?

# Subpart B—Eligibility and Participation
892.201
Who is covered by the premium conversion plan?
892.202
Are retirees eligible for the premium conversion plan?
892.203
When will my premium conversion begin?
892.204
How do I waive participation in premium conversion before the benefit first becomes effective?
892.205
May I waive participation in premium conversion after the initial implementation?
892.206
Can I cancel my waiver and participate in premium conversion?
892.207
Can I make changes to my FEHB enrollment while I am participating in premium conversion?
892.208
Can I decrease my enrollment type at any time?
892.209
Can I cancel FEHB coverage at any time?
892.210
Does premium conversion change the effective date of an FEHB enrollment, change in enrollment, or cancellation of enrollment?
892.211
What options are available to me if I go on a period of leave without pay (LWOP) or other types of non-pay status?

# Subpart C—Contributions and Withholdings
892.301
How do I pay my premium?
892.302
Will the Government contribution continue?
892.303
Can I pay my premiums directly by check under the premium conversion plan?

# Subpart D—Reemployed Annuitants and Survivor Annuitants
892.401
Am I eligible for premium conversion if I retire and then come back to work for the Federal Government?
892.402
I am a survivor annuitant as well as an active Federal employee; am I eligible for premium conversion?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8913; 5 U.S.C. 1103(a)(7); 26 U.S.C. 125.

# Source:
65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 892.101
Definitions.
Days
mean calendar days.
Dependent
means a family member who is both eligible for coverage under the FEHB Program and either a dependent as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code or a child as defined in section 152(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code who is under age 27 as of the end of the employee's taxable year.
FEHB Program
means the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program described in 5 U.S.C. 8901.
Open Season
means the period of time each year as described in § 890.301(f) of this chapter when all individuals eligible for FEHB coverage have the opportunity to enroll or change their enrollment. These changes become effective with the first pay period that begins in the following year. For additional open seasons authorized by OPM, the effective date is specified.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Qualifying life (QLE) event
means an event that may permit changes to your FEHB enrollment as well as changes to your premium conversion election as described in Treasury regulations at 26 CFR 1.125-4. Such events include the following:
(1) Change in family status that results in an increase or decrease in the number of eligible family members as follows:
(i) Marriage, divorce, annulment, legal separation;
(ii) Birth, adoption, acquiring a foster child that meets the definition in § 890.101(a) or a stepchild, issuance of a court order requiring an employee to provide coverage for a child;
(iii) Last dependent child loses coverage, for example, the child reaches age 26, disabled child becomes capable of self support, child acquires other coverage by court order; and
(iv) Death of a spouse or dependent.
(2) Any change in employment status that could result in entitlement to coverage; for example:
(i) Reemployment after a break in service of more than 3 days;
(ii) Return to pay status from non-pay status if employee previously elected to terminate coverage (if employee did not elect to terminate see § 892.101 (5);
(iii) Return to receiving pay sufficient to cover premium withholdings if coverage terminated;
(iv) Your spouse or dependent changes hours from either full-time to part-time status, or the reverse, which significantly affects their eligibility for coverage;
(v) Start or end of a period of unpaid leave of absence (leave without pay [LWOP], or other non-pay status) by you or your spouse. A period of unpaid leave is a continuous unpaid leave of absence of more than one pay period; and
(vi) Start or end of your spouse's employment that affects you or your spouse's eligibility for coverage.
(3) Any change in employment status that could affect the cost of insurance, including:
(i) Change from temporary appointment with eligibility for coverage
under 5 U.S.C. 8906a to an appointment that permits receipt of government contribution; and
(ii) Change from full-time to part-time status or the reverse.
(4) An employee is restored to a civilian position after serving in uniformed services as described in § 890.304 (a)(vi)(vii).
(5) Start of non-pay status and end of non-pay status if employee did not terminate coverage (if coverage terminated see § 892.101 (2)(ii)).
(6) An employee enrolled in a health maintenance organization (HMO) or a covered family member moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the carrier accepts enrollments, or if already lives or works outside the area, moves further from this area.
(7) Transfer from a post of duty within the United States to a post of duty outside the United States, or the reverse.
(8) Separation from Federal employment when the employee or employee's spouse is pregnant.
(9) An employee becomes entitled to Medicare. (For change to self only, self plus one, cancellation, or change in premium conversion status see paragraph (11) of this definition.)
(10) An employee or eligible family member loses coverage under FEHB or another group insurance coverage including the following:
(i) Loss of coverage due to termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring the FEHB plan;
(ii) Loss of coverage of employee or eligible family member due to discontinuance in whole or part of FEHB plan;
(iii) Loss of coverage under another Federally-sponsored health benefits program, including, TRICARE, Medicare, or Indian Health Service;
(iv) Loss of coverage under Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy; and
(v) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan, including foreign, State or local government, or private sector group health plan as described in § 890.301 (i)(6).
(11) An employee or eligible family member gains coverage under FEHB or another group insurance plan, including the following:
(i) Another Federally-sponsored health benefits program, including, TRICARE, Medicare, or Indian Health Service;
(ii) Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy; and
(iii) A non-Federal health plan, including foreign, State or local government, or private sector group plan.
(12) A change in an employee's spouse or dependent's coverage options, for example:
(i) Employer starts offering a different type of coverage;
(ii) Employer stops offering the type of coverage that the employee's spouse or dependent has (if no other coverage is available);
(iii) A health maintenance organization (HMO) adds a geographic service area that now makes the employee's spouse eligible to enroll in that HMO;
(iv) Employee's spouse is enrolled in an HMO that removes a geographic area that makes the spouse ineligible for coverage under that HMO, but other health plans or options are available (if no other coverage is available see § 892.101 (10); and
(v) Change in the cost of coverage.
(13) An employee or eligible family member becomes eligible for premium assistance under Medicaid or a State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). An eligible employee may enroll and an enrolled employee may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes when the employee or an eligible family member of the employee becomes eligible for premium assistance under a Medicaid plan or a State Children's Health Insurance Program. An employee must enroll or change his or her enrollment within 60 days after the date the employee or family member is determined to be eligible for assistance.
[65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 56527, Oct. 1, 2003; 75 FR 76616, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 64878, Oct. 30, 2013; 80 FR 55738, Sept. 17, 2015; 83 FR 32192, July 12, 2018]
§ 892.102
What is premium conversion and how does it work?
Premium conversion is a method of reducing your taxable income by the amount of your contribution to your FEHB insurance premium. If you are a participant in the premium conversion plan, Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code allows you to reduce your salary (through an employer allotment) and provide that portion of your salary back to your employer. Instead of being paid to you as taxable income, this allotted amount is used to purchase your FEHB insurance for you. The effect is that your taxable income is reduced. Because taxable income is reduced, the amount of tax you pay is reduced. You save on Federal income tax, Social Security and Medicare tax and in most States and localities, State and local income taxes.
[83 FR 32192, July 12, 2018]
§ 892.103
What can I do if I disagree with my agency's decision about my pre-or post-tax election?
You may use the reconsideration procedure set out at §§ 890.104 of this chapter to request an agency to reconsider its initial decision affecting your participation in the premium conversion plan.

# Subpart B—Eligibility and Participation
§ 892.201
Who is covered by the premium conversion plan?
(a) All employees in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government who are participating in the FEHB Program (as described in 5 U.S.C. 8901), and whose pay is issued by an agency of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, are automatically covered by the premium conversion plan. Certain reemployed annuitants may be considered employees for purposes of premium conversion, as described in subpart D of this part.
(b) Employees of organizations that have established a premium conversion plan under separate authority prior to October 2000 may not participate in the premium conversion plan described here because they are already covered by their employing agency's plan.
(c) Individuals enrolled in FEHB who are not employees of the Executive Branch of the Federal government or are not employees of the Federal government, will be covered by the premium conversion plan if their employer signs an adoption agreement that is accepted by OPM.
(d) Individuals enrolled in FEHB who are appointed by an agency in the Executive Branch, but whose pay is not issued by that agency, will be covered by the premium conversion plan if the entity that makes their FEHB contribution signs an adoption agreement that is accepted by OPM.
(e) Individuals may waive premium conversion by filing a waiver form with their employer in accordance with this part.
§ 892.202
Are retirees eligible for the premium conversion plan?
No, only current employees who are enrolled in the FEHB Program are covered by the premium conversion plan. Former employees are not eligible. If you are a reemployed annuitant, see subpart D of this part.
§ 892.203
When will my premium conversion begin?
If you are newly employed or newly eligible for FEHB in a covered Executive Branch agency (as described in § 892.201(a)), your salary reduction (through a Federal allotment) and pre-tax benefit will be effective on the 1st day of the first pay period beginning on or after your employing agency receives your enrollment.
[68 FR 56528, Oct. 1, 2003]
§ 892.204
How do I waive participation in premium conversion before the benefit first becomes effective?
You must file a waiver form by the date set by your employing office, but not later than the day before the effective date of coverage. The waiver form is available from your employing office.
§ 892.205
May I waive participation in premium conversion after the initial implementation?
Yes, but the opportunity to waive premium conversion is limited. You may waive premium conversion:
(a) During the annual FEHB open season. The effective date of the waiver will be the first day of the first pay period that begins in the following calendar year;
(b) At the same time as you sign up for FEHB when first hired or hired as a reemployed annuitant. Employees who leave Federal service and are rehired after a three-day break in service or in a different calendar year also may waive;
(c) In conjunction with a change in FEHB enrollment, on account of and consistent with a qualifying life event (see § 892.101); or
(d) When you have a qualifying life event and the waiver is on account of and consistent with that qualifying life event (even if you do not change your FEHB enrollment). You have 60 days after the qualifying life event to file a waiver with your employer. The waiver is effective on the first day of the pay period following the date your employer receives the waiver.
§ 892.206
Can I cancel my waiver and participate in premium conversion?
Yes, you may cancel a waiver and participate in premium conversion if:
(a) You have a qualifying life event; the change in FEHB coverage is consistent with the qualifying life event; and you complete an election form to participate in premium conversion within 60 days after the qualifying life event; or
(b) You cancel your waiver during an open season, including an extended open season authorized by OPM.
§ 892.207
Can I make changes to my FEHB enrollment while I am participating in premium conversion?
(a) Subject to the exceptions described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, you can make changes to your FEHB enrollment for the same reasons and with the same effective dates listed in § 890.301 of this chapter.
(b) However, if you are participating in premium conversion there are two exceptions: You must have a qualifying life event to decrease enrollment type, switch a covered family member, or to cancel FEHB coverage entirely. (
See
§§ 892.209 and 892.210.) Your change in enrollment must be consistent with and correspond to your qualifying life event as described in § 892.101. These limitations apply only to changes you may wish to make outside open season.
(c) If you are subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3) of this chapter, your employing agency can limit a change to your enrollment as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and you have at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless you provide documentation to your agency that you have other coverage for your child or children.
See also
§ 892.208 and § 892.209.
(d) During the first plan year in which the self plus one enrollment type is available, OPM will administer a limited enrollment period for enrollees who participate in premium conversion. During this limited enrollment period, enrollees who participate in premium conversion will be allowed to decrease enrollment from self and family to self plus one during a time period determined by OPM. No other changes, including changes in plan or plan option or increases in enrollment, will be allowed. Enrollments will be effective on the first day of the first pay period following the one in which the appropriate request is received by the employing office.
[69 FR 56929, Sept. 23, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 55739, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 892.208
Can I decrease my enrollment type at any time?
If you are participating in premium conversion you may decrease your FEHB enrollment type under either of the following circumstances:
(a)
During the annual open season.
A decrease in enrollment type made during the annual open season takes effect on the 1st day of the first pay period that begins in the next year.
(b)
Within 60 days after you have a qualifying life event.
A decrease in enrollment type made because of a qualifying life event takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date your employing office receives your appropriate request. Your change in enrollment must be consistent with and correspond to your qualifying life event. For example, if
you get divorced and have no dependent children, changing to self only would be consistent with that qualifying life event. As another example, if both you and your spouse are Federal employees, and your youngest dependent turns age 26, changing from a self and family to a self plus one or two self only enrollments would be consistent and appropriate for that event.
(c) If you are subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3), you may not decrease enrollment type in a way that eliminates coverage of a child identified in the order as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and you have at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless you provide documentation to your agency that you have other coverage for your child or children. See also §§ 892.207 and 892.209. If you are subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3), you may not change your enrollment to self plus one as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and you have more than one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless you provide documentation to your agency that you have other coverage for your children. See also §§ 892.207 and 892.209.
[80 FR 55739, Sept. 17, 2015]
§ 892.209
Can I cancel FEHB coverage at any time?
If you are participating in premium conversion you may cancel your FEHB coverage:
(a)
During the annual open season.
A cancellation made during the annual open season is effective at midnight of the day before the first day of the first pay period that begins in the next year.
(b)
Within 60 days after you have a qualifying life event.
A cancellation made because of a qualifying life event takes effect at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which your employing office receives your appropriate request to cancel your enrollment. Your cancellation of coverage must be consistent with and correspond to your qualifying life event. For example, if you get married and you gain other insurance coverage because your spouse's employer provides health insurance for your spouse and you, then canceling FEHB coverage would be consistent with that qualifying life event. If you add an eligible family member, canceling coverage would generally not be consistent with that qualifying life event.
(c) If you are subject to a court or administrative order as discussed in § 890.301(g)(3) of this chapter, you may not cancel your coverage as long as the court or administrative order is still in effect and you have at least one child identified in the order who is still eligible under the FEHB Program, unless you provide documentation to your agency that you have other coverage for your child or children.
[65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 56525, 56528, Oct. 1, 2003; 69 FR 56929, Sept. 23, 2004]
§ 892.210
Does premium conversion change the effective date of an FEHB enrollment, change in enrollment, or cancellation of enrollment?
No. If you are participating in premium conversion, the effective date of an FEHB enrollment, change in enrollment, or cancellation of enrollment is the same effective date as provided in § 890.301 of this chapter.
§ 892.211
What options are available to me if I go on a period of leave without pay (LWOP) or other types of non-pay status?
(a) Your commencement of a period of LWOP is a qualifying life event as described in § 892.101. You may change your premium conversion election (waive if you now participate, or participate if you now waive).
(b)(1) You may continue your FEHB coverage by agreeing in advance of LWOP to one of the payment options described in paragraph (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section.
(2)
Pre-pay.
Prior to commencement of your LWOP you may allot through payroll deduction the amount that will be due for your share of your FEHB premium during your LWOP period, if your employing agency, at its discretion, allows you to do so. Contributions under the pre-pay option may be made through premium conversion on a pre-tax basis. Alternatively, you may pre-
pay premiums for the LWOP period on an after-tax basis.
(3)
Direct pay.
Under the direct pay option, you may pay your share of your FEHB premium on the same schedule of payments that would be made if you were not on LWOP, as described in § 890.502(b) of this chapter. You must make the premium payments directly to your employing agency. The payments you make under the direct pay option are not subject to premium conversion, and are made on an after-tax basis.
(4)
Catch-up.
Under the catch-up option, you must agree in advance of the LWOP period that: you will continue FEHB coverage while on LWOP; your employer will advance your share of your FEHB premium during your LWOP period; and you will repay the advanced amounts when you return from LWOP. (Described in § 890.502(b) of this chapter.) Your catch-up contributions may be made through premium conversion.
(5) If you remain in FEHB upon your return from LWOP, your catch-up premiums and current premiums will be paid at the same time.
(c) Your return from LWOP constitutes a qualifying life event as described in § 892.101. You may change your premium conversion election (waive if you now participate, or participate if you now waive). The election you choose upon return from LWOP will apply to your current as well as your catch-up premiums.
[68 FR 56528, Oct. 1, 2003]

# Subpart C—Contributions and Withholdings
§ 892.301
How do I pay my premium?
As a participant in premium conversion, instead of having your premium withheld from after-tax salary, your salary will be reduced (through a Federal allotment) by the amount equal to your FEHB premium, which you will allot to your agency. The allotment from salary satisfies the FEHB premium payment requirement of 5 U.S.C. 8906. Your employer is authorized to accept this allotment under § 550.311(a)(7) and § 550.312 of this chapter or, for employers not subject to those regulations, a similar mechanism. Your agency will use the allotment to pay your share of your FEHB premium. This will reduce your taxable income as described in § 892.102.
[65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 892.302
Will the Government contribution continue?
Yes, your employer will still pay the same share of your premium as provided in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act, and § 890.501 of this chapter. Employee allotments do not count toward the Government's statutory maximum contribution.
§ 892.303
Can I pay my premiums directly by check under the premium conversion plan?
No, your employer must take your contribution to your FEHB premium from your salary to qualify for pre-tax treatment.

# Subpart D—Reemployed Annuitants and Survivor Annuitants
§ 892.401
Am I eligible for premium conversion if I retire and then come back to work for the Federal Government?
(a) If you are a retired individual enrolled in FEHB who is receiving an annuity and you are reemployed in a position that conveys FEHB eligibility and is covered by the premium conversion plan, you are automatically covered by premium conversion, unless you waive participation as described in § 892.205.
(b)(1) If you do not waive premium conversion, your FEHB coverage will be transferred to your employing agency, and your employing agency will assume responsibility for contributing the Government share of your FEHB coverage. Your coverage, including what FEHB plans you are eligible to enroll in, will be based on your status as an active employee and your employing agency will deduct your premiums from your salary.
(2) If you elect to waive participation in premium conversion, you will keep your FEHB coverage as an annuitant, but your contributions towards your FEHB premiums will be made on an
after-tax basis. Your employing agency must receive your waiver no later than 60 days after the date you return to Federal employment. A waiver will be effective at the beginning of the first pay period after your employer receives it.
(c) If you did not carry FEHB into retirement and you are reemployed as an employee in a position covered by the premium conversion plan, you may enroll in the FEHB Program as a new employee as described in § 890.301 of this chapter. Upon enrolling in FEHB, you are automatically covered by the premium conversion plan, unless you waive participation as described in § 892.205.
(d) Your status as an annuitant under the retirement regulations and your right to continue FEHB as an annuitant following your period of reemployment is unaffected.
[65 FR 44646, July 19, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 56529, Oct. 1, 2003]
§ 892.402
I am a survivor annuitant as well as an active Federal employee; am I eligible for premium conversion?
(a) If you are a survivor annuitant enrolled in FEHB who is receiving an annuity and you are employed in a position that conveys FEHB eligibility and is covered by the premium conversion plan, you are eligible to participate in premium conversion.
(b)(1) If you wish to participate in premium conversion, you must notify your employing agency. Your employing agency will transfer in your FEHB coverage from the retirement system, and your employing agency will assume responsibility for contributing the government share of your FEHB coverage. Your coverage, including what FEHB plans you are eligible to enroll in, will be based on your status as an active employee and your employing agency will deduct your premiums from your salary.
(2) If you do not notify your employing agency that you wish to participate in premium conversion, you will keep your FEHB coverage as a survivor annuitant, but your contributions towards your FEHB premiums will be made on an after-tax basis. Your status as an annuitant under the retirement regulations and your right to continue FEHB as a survivor annuitant following your period of employment is unaffected.
[68 FR 56529, Oct. 1, 2003]
Pt. 894

# PART 894—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DENTAL AND VISION INSURANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
894.101
Definitions.
894.102
If I have a preexisting dental or vision condition, may I join FEDVIP?
894.103
How do I enroll?
894.104
Who makes enrollment decisions and reconsiderations?
894.105
Who may correct an error in my enrollment?
894.106
Special provisions for
TRICARE-eligible individuals (TEI).

# Subpart B—Coverage and Types of Enrollment
894.201
What types of enrollments are available under FEDVIP?
894.202
I am an enrollee; if I enroll for self plus one, may I decide which family member to cover?
894.203
May I be enrolled in more than one dental or vision plan at a time?

# Subpart C—Eligibility
894.301
Am I eligible to enroll in FEDVIP as an employee?
894.302
What is an excluded position?
894.303
What happens to my enrollment if I transfer to an excluded position?
894.304
Am I eligible to enroll if I'm retired or receiving workers' compensation?
894.305
Am I eligible to enroll if I am a former spouse receiving an apportionment of annuity?
894.306
Are foster children eligible as family members?
894.307
Are disabled children age 22 or over eligible as family members?
894.308
How do I establish the dependency of my recognized natural child?
894.309
I am a TEI-D or TEI-V. Am I eligible to enroll in FEDVIP, and cover my TEI family members?

# Subpart D—Cost of Coverage
894.401
How do I pay premiums?
894.402
Do the premiums I pay reflect the cost of providing benefits?
894.403
Are FEDVIP premiums paid on a pre-tax basis?
894.404
May I opt out of premium conversion?
894.405
What happens if I go into nonpay status or if my pay/annuity is insufficient to cover the allotments?
894.406
What happens if my uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay is insufficient to cover my FEDVIP premiums, or I go into a nonpay status?

# Subpart E—Enrolling and Changing Enrollment
894.501
When may I enroll?
894.502
What are the Qualifying Life Events (QLEs) that allow me to enroll or become covered in FEDVIP outside of open season?
894.503
Are belated enrollments or changes allowed?
894.504
When is my enrollment effective?
894.505
Are retroactive premiums paid with pre-tax dollars (premium conversion)?
894.506
How often will there be open seasons?
894.507
After I'm enrolled, may I change from one dental or vision plan or plan option to another?
894.508
When may I increase my type of enrollment?
894.509
What are the QLEs that are consistent with increasing my type of enrollment?
894.510
When may I decrease my type of enrollment?
894.511
What are the QLEs that are consistent with decreasing my type of enrollment?
894.512
What happens if I leave Federal Government and then return?
894.513
Do I have to elect FEDVIP coverage each year in order to remain covered?

# Subpart F—Termination or Cancellation of Coverage
894.601
When does my FEDVIP coverage stop?
894.602
May I cancel my enrollment at any time?
894.603
Is there a temporary extension of coverage and conversion right when my coverage stops or when a covered family member loses eligibility?

# Subpart G—Annuitants and Compensationers
894.701
May I keep my dental and/or vision coverage when I retire or if I start receiving workers' compensation?
894.702
May I participate in open season and make changes to my enrollment as an annuitant or compensationer?
894.703
How long does my coverage as an annuitant or compensationer last?
894.704
What happens if I retire and then come back to work for the Federal Government or the United States Postal Service?

# Subpart H—Special Provisions for TRICARE-Eligible Individuals (TEI)
894.801
Am I eligible for FEDVIP based on my eligibility to enroll in a TRICARE dental or health plan?
894.802
Am I a TEI for a FEDVIP dental plan (TEI-D) if I am eligible to enroll or be covered under the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program?
894.803
Am I a TEI for a FEDVIP vision plan (TEI-V) based on my enrollment in a TRICARE health plan?
894.804
Am I a sponsor for a FEDVIP dental or vision plan?
894.805
I am not a TEI-D or TEI-V, but I am a sponsor. Am I eligible to cover my TEI family members?
894.806
Can a retiree or Retired Reserve member enroll and cover TEI family members in a FEDVIP dental plan?
894.807
Can an active duty member enroll or be covered under a FEDVIP vision plan?
894.808
I am a TEI family member. Can I enroll myself in FEDVIP?
894.809
Who is a TEI certifying family member, and may I be the enrollee if I accept this responsibility?
894.810
If I enroll for self plus one, may I decide which TEI family member to cover?
894.811
I am a TEI family member of a sponsor who is a retiree or Retired Reserve member who is not on active duty. My sponsor is a TEI-D but is not enrolled in a FEDVIP dental plan. Can I enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan even though my sponsor is eligible to enroll but is not enrolled?
894.812
I am a widow or widower TEI family member. Can I enroll my TEI child who is a TEI family member without enrolling myself in FEDVIP?
894.813
I am a TEI former spouse. Am I eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan?
894.814
Is a foster child included in the definition of TEI family member?
894.815
I am a sponsor. Am I responsible to notify the Administrator and my TEI family members when my FEDVIP dental or vision eligibility and/or enrollment status changes?
894.816
If I return from active duty and retire, what happens to my TEI family members' enrollment in their FEDVIP vision plan?
894.817
If I am a retiree who is a TEI-V and I return to active duty, what happens to my TEI family members' enrollment in their FEDVIP vision plan?

# Subpart I—Benefits in Underserved Areas
894.901
Will benefits be available in underserved areas?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8962; 5 U.S.C. 8992; Subpart C also issued under section 1 of Pub. L. 110-279, 122 Stat. 2604 (2 U.S.C. 2051); and Sec. 894.601(b) also issued under Pub. L. 116-92, 133 Stat. 1198 (5 U.S.C. 8956 note).

# Source:
73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 894.101
Definitions.
This part is written as if the reader were an applicant or
enrollee
. Accordingly, the terms “you,” “your,” etc., refer, as appropriate, to the applicant or
enrollee
.
Acquiring an eligible child
means one of the following:
(1) Birth of a child;
(2) Adoption of a child;
(3) Acquisition of a foster child as described in § 890.101(a)(8) of this chapter;
(4) Acquisition of a stepchild who lives with the
enrollee
in a regular parent-child relationship;
(5) Establishment of a recognized natural child;
(6) Residence change of the
enrollee's
stepchild or recognized natural child who moves in with the
enrollee
; and
(7) An otherwise eligible child becoming unmarried due to divorce or annulment of marriage, or death.
Administrator
means the entity with which the Office of Personnel Management contracts to manage the enrollment and premium payment process for the Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program (FEDVIP).
Annuitant
means an individual defined at 5 U.S.C. 8901(3). Generally, the term means a former
employee
or
employee
of the United States Postal Service who is entitled to an immediate annuity or a disability annuity under a retirement system established for
employees.
The term also generally includes those receiving a survivor annuity due to the death of an
employee
or
employee
of the United States Postal Service or annuitant (survivor annuitants) and those receiving compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (compensationers). The term does not include former
employees
who retire with a deferred annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8413, or former spouses of annuitants.
Carrier
means a company with which the Office of Personnel Management contracts to provide dental and/or vision benefits.
Child
means:
(1) Except as discussed in paragraph (4) of this definition, a child is one of the following:
(i) A child born within marriage;
(ii) An adopted child;
(iii) A stepchild or foster child who lives with the
enrollee
in a regular parent-child relationship; or
(iv) A recognized natural child.
(2) This definition does not include a grandchild (unless the grandchild meets all the requirements of a foster child as stated in § 890.101(a)(8) of this chapter).
(3) The child must be unmarried and under age 22. A child age 22 or over is eligible if the child is incapable of self-support because of a physical or mental disability that existed before the child reached age 22.
(4) With respect to a
TEl, child
means a
TEI child.
Compensation
has the same meaning as found under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, which is payable because of an on-the-job injury or disease.
Compensationer
means an individual who is receiving compensation and who the Department of Labor determines is unable to return to duty.
Covered position
means a position in which an
employee
is not excluded from FEDVIP eligibility by law or regulation.
Days
means calendar days.
Dependent
means an unmarried child who is living with or receiving regular and substantial support from the
enrollee
.
Employee
means an individual defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901. For the purposes of this subpart, the term
employee
additionally means an employee of the United States Postal Service and an
employee
of the District of Columbia courts.
Enrollee
means the individual in whose name the FEDVIP enrollment is
carried. There is one FEDVIP enrollment for each
enrollee
in a dental plan, and/or in a vision plan and that enrollment may include
family members
who may be covered by the enrollment. The term
enrollee
includes individuals eligible to enroll based upon a status described at subpart C of this part, who enroll and are covered. With respect to the Federal workforce, an
enrollee
generally means an
employee
or
annuitant.
With respect to the United States Postal Service, an
enrollee
generally means an
employee
or
annuitant
of the United States Postal Service. With respect to a
TEI,
an
enrollee
generally means the
sponsor
who is a
TEI
with respect to a FEDVIP plan; but if the
sponsor
is not a
TEI,
or for FEDVIP dental benefits if the
sponsor
defined at § 894.804 is not enrolled and meets a condition at § 894.309(a)(3)(iii), then enrollee means the
TEI certifying family member.
A
TEI former spouse
may be an enrollee only for a self-only FEDVIP vision plan. An
enrollee
may enroll and elect a FEDVIP dental and/or vision plan, option, and type of enrollment, except as provided at § 894.309.
Enrollment reconsideration
means the
Administrator's
review of its initial enrollment decision to determine if it followed the law and regulations correctly in making the initial decision concerning FEDVIP eligibility.
Family member
means a spouse (including a spouse under a valid common law marriage) and/or unmarried dependent child(ren) under age 22 or beyond age 22, if incapable of self-support because of mental or physical disability which existed before reaching age 22, as defined at 5 U.S.C. 8901(5). With respect to a
TEI,
the term
family member
means a
TEI family member.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
OWCP
means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor.
Premium conversion
means the payment of FEDVIP premiums by an
employee
or United States Postal Service employee using pre-tax dollars. See § 892.102 of this chapter for a discussion of how
premium conversion
works.
QLE
means a qualifying life event.
Recognized natural child
means a biological child born outside of marriage. A recognized natural child is an eligible family member if the child lives with the
enrollee
or receives financial support from the
enrollee
.
Regular parent-child relationship
means that the
enrollee
is exercising parental authority, responsibility, and control over the child; is caring for, supporting the child; and is making the decisions about the child's education and medical care.
Sponsor
generally means the individual who is eligible for medical or dental benefits under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55 based on his or her direct affiliation with the uniformed services (including members of the National Guard and Reserves), in accordance with § 894.804.
Stepchild
means your spouse's child born within or outside marriage or their adopted child. The child of your spouse shall continue to be considered your stepchild after your divorce from your spouse or the death of your spouse so long as the child continues to live with you in a regular parent-child relationship.
TEI
means
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP dental benefits (TEI-D)
or a
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP vision benefits (TEI-V).
TEI certifying family member
means, where the
sponsor
is not an
enrollee
under § 894.309, the
TEI family member
who may accept responsibility to self-certify as an
enrollee
in accordance with § 894.809.
TEI child
means an individual who is a
TEI
and who meets the definition of dependent in 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D) or (I) with respect to a
sponsor.
TEI family member
means a TEI who is a dependent with respect to a sponsor, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(A) (spouse), 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(B) (unremarried widow), 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(C) (unremarried widower), 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D) (child), or 10 U.S.C 1072(2)(I) (unmarried person).
TEI former spouse
means a
TEI
who is an unremarried former spouse as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(F), (G), or (H) and is entitled to medical care under 10 U.S.C. 1086(c) or (d).
TRICARE-eligible individual (TEI)
means a
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP dental benefits (TEI-D)
or a
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP
vision benefits (TEI-V),
as the case may be.
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP dental benefits
(
TEI-D
) means an individual who is eligible for FEDVIP dental coverage based on the individual's eligibility to enroll or be covered under the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program, 10 U.S.C. 1076c(b) in accordance with § 894.802.
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP vision benefits
(
TEI-V
) means an individual who is eligible for FEDVIP vision coverage based on the individual's enrollment in a specified TRICARE health plan in accordance with § 894.803.
Type of enrollment
means one of the following:
(1) Self only;
(2) Self plus one; or
(3) Self and family.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 64879, Oct. 30, 2013; 81 FR 86906, Dec. 2, 2016; 83 FR 32193, July 12, 2018; 83 FR 58177, Nov. 19, 2018; 84 FR 1599, Feb. 5, 2019; 84 FR 26544, June 7, 2019; 88 FR 47745, 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.102
If I have a pre-existing dental or vision condition, may I join FEDVIP?
Yes. Pre-existing conditions do not exclude you from coverage under FEDVIP. The
Administrator
may not deny an individual the right to enroll solely because of a preexisting dental or vision condition.
§ 894.103
How do I enroll?
You may enroll through an
Administrator
contracted by OPM to facilitate the enrollment process. Your Federal agency, retirement system, or
OWCP
office will advise you of the enrollment process available to you.
§ 894.104
Who makes enrollment decisions and reconsiderations?
The
Administrator
makes enrollment decisions and the
Administrator
reviews requests for reconsideration of an enrollment decision. The
Administrator's
initial enrollment decision denying enrollment or an opportunity to change coverage must be in writing and must inform you about your right to reconsideration.
§ 894.105
Who may correct an error in my enrollment?
(a) The
Administrator
may correct administrative errors about the processing of your enrollment or changes in enrollment.
(b) OPM may order correction of an administrative error or other noncompliance with FEDVIP rules in this part if it receives evidence that it would be against equity (fairness) and good conscience not to order the correction. Corrections are made at the discretion of OPM and are not subject to review.
(c) If the correction gives you or a
family member
retroactive coverage, you must pay the premiums for all periods of the retroactive coverage. Retroactive premiums will not be on a pre-tax basis (they are not subject to premium conversion).
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 47746, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.106
Special provisions for
TRICARE-eligible individuals (TEI).
Generally, applicable provisions of this part are effective for
TEIs.
Provisions that are specific to Federal
employees, annuitants
and their
family members
do not apply to
TEIs. See
§ 894.101 for application of defined terms to
TEIs
and subpart H of this part for special provisions for
TEIs,
which governs in the event of ambiguity.
[83 FR 58178, Nov. 19, 2018]

# Subpart B—Coverage and Types of Enrollment
§ 894.201
What types of enrollments are available under FEDVIP?
FEDVIP has three
types of enrollment:
(a) Self only, which covers only the
enrollee;
(b) Self plus one, which covers the
enrollee
plus one
family member;
and
(c) Self and family, which covers the
enrollee
and all
family members.
[88 FR 47746, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.202
I am an enrollee; if I enroll for self plus one, may I decide which family member to cover?
Yes, if you enroll for self plus one, you must state at the time you enroll
which eligible
family member
you want to cover under your enrollment.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 47746, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.203
May I be enrolled in more than one dental or vision plan at a time?
You may be enrolled or be covered in a FEDVIP dental plan and a separate FEDVIP vision plan at the same time. But no one may enroll or be covered as a family member in a FEDVIP dental or vision plan if he or she is covered under another person's FEDVIP dental or vision self plus one or self and family enrollment, except as provided under § 890.302(a)(2) of this chapter, with respect to dual enrollments. If two parents of a TEI child are entitled to be a sponsor, they must choose one parent to be the child's sponsor. Dual enrollments of TEIs are permitted as provided under § 890.302(a)(2) of this chapter as applicable to TEI family members.
[88 FR 47746, July 25, 2023]

# Subpart C—Eligibility
§ 894.301
Am I eligible to enroll in FEDVIP as an employee?
You are eligible if—
(a) You meet the definition of
employee
in 5 U.S.C. 8901(1), unless you are in an excluded position;
(b) You are an employee of the United States Postal Service or the District of Columbia courts;
(c)(1) You were employed by the Architect of the Capitol as a Senate Restaurants
employee
the day before the food services operations of the Senate Restaurants were transferred to a private business concern; and
(2) You accepted employment by the business concern and elected to continue your Federal retirement benefits and your FEDVIP coverage. You continue to be eligible for FEDVIP coverage as long as you remain employed by the business concern or its successor; or
(d) You are an
employee
in a position identified by OPM that provides emergency response services for wildland fire protection pursuant to § 890.102(h) of this chapter; or you are an
employee
pursuant to § 890.102(i) of this chapter, under which, upon request by the employing agency, OPM may grant eligibility to employees performing similar types of emergency response services. OPM may limit the coverage of intermittent
employees
to the periods of time during which they are in a pay status pursuant to § 890.102(i) of this chapter.
[75 FR 20514, Apr. 20, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 47746, 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.302
What is an excluded position?
Excluded positions are described in 5 U.S.C. 8901(1)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) and § 890.102(c) of this chapter, except that employees of the United States Postal Service, District of Columbia courts, and employees identified in § 890.102(c)(9)(i) and (ii) of this chapter are not excluded positions. You are in an excluded position if you are:
(a) An
employee
of a corporation supervised by the Farm Credit Administration, if private interests elect or appoint a member of the board of directors.
(b) An
employee
who is not a citizen or national of the United States and your permanent duty station is outside the United States.
Exception:
You are eligible if you met the definition of
employee
on September 30, 1979, by service in an Executive agency, the United States Postal Service, or the Smithsonian Institution in the area that was then known as the Canal Zone.
(c) An
employee
of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
(d) An individual first employed by the Government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987, except
employees
of the District of Columbia Courts and those
employees
defined at § 890.102 (c)(8) of this chapter.
(e) Serving under an appointment limited to 1 year or less.
Exceptions:
You are eligible if:
(1) You are an acting postmaster;
(2) You are a Presidential appointee appointed to fill an unexpired term;
(3) You are an
employee
with a provisional appointment, as defined in §§ 316.401 and 316.403 of this chapter;
(4) You have completed 1 year of current continuous employment, excluding any break in service of 5
days
or less;
(5) You are an
employee
working on a temporary appointment, and if you meet the conditions in § 890.102(j) of this chapter, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office; or
(6) You are an employee of the United States Postal Service working on a temporary appointment, and if you meet the conditions of § 890.102(j) of this chapter except the requirement of being a non-Postal employee, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office.
(f) Expected to work fewer than six months in each year.
Exceptions:
You are eligible if:
(1) You receive an appointment of at least one year's duration as an Intern under § 213.3402(a) of this chapter. To qualify, you must be expected to be in a pay status for at least one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the work-study program.
(2) You are an
employee
working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, and if you meet the conditions in § 890.102(j) of this chapter, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office.
(3) You are an employee of the United States Postal Service working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, and if you meet the conditions in § 890.102(j) of this chapter except the requirement of being a non-Postal employee, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office.
(g)(1) An intermittent
employee
(a non-full-time
employee
without a prearranged regular tour of duty).
Exception:
If you are an
employe
e working on an intermittent schedule and if you meet the conditions in § 890.102(j) of this chapter you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office.
(2) An intermittent employee of the United States Postal Service (a non-full-time employee without a prearranged regular tour of duty).
Exception:
If you are an employee of the United States Postal Service working on an intermittent schedule, and if you meet the conditions of § 890.102(j) of this chapter except the requirement of being a non-Postal employee, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP plan upon notification by your employing office.
(h) A beneficiary or patient
employee
in a Government hospital or home.
(i) Paid on a contract or fee basis.
Exception:
You are eligible if you are a United States citizen, and you are appointed by a contract between you and the Federal employing authority. To qualify, your contract must require your personal service, and you must be paid on the basis of units of time.
(j) Paid on a piecework basis.
Exception:
You are eligible if your work schedule provides for full-time or part-time service, and you have a regularly scheduled tour of duty.
(k) The following positions are not excluded positions:
(1) An
employee
appointed to perform “part-time career employment,” as defined in section 3401 (2) of title 5, U.S.C., and 5 CFR part 430, subpart B; or
(2) An
employee
serving under an interim appointment established under § 772.102 of this chapter.
(l) For purposes of this subpart and as defined in § 890.102(j)(4) of this chapter,
qualifying leave without pay hours
means hours of leave without pay for purposes of taking leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act for performance of duty in the Uniformed Services under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, 38 U.S.C. 4301
et seq.,
for receiving medical treatment under Executive Order 5396 (July 7, 1930), and for periods during which workers compensation is received under the Federal Employees Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. chapter 81.
(m) Once an
employee
or an employee of the United States Postal Service is properly enrolled under paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section and meets the applicable conditions in § 890.102(j) of this chapter, enrollment will not be terminated, regardless of his or her actual work schedule or employer expectations in subsequent years, unless the
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service separates from service, receives a new appointment (in which case eligibility will be determined by the rules in this part applicable to the new appointment), or otherwise meets one of the circumstances for termination or cancellation of coverage in §§ 894.601 and 894.602.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 20514, Apr. 20, 2010; 79 FR 532, Jan. 6, 2014; 81 FR 58382, Aug. 25, 2016; 88 FR 47746, 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.303
What happens to my enrollment if I transfer to an excluded position?
(a) If you have FEDVIP coverage and you transfer to a position excluded under § 894.302(a) through (d), your enrollment stops.
(b) If you have FEDVIP coverage and you transfer to a position excluded under § 894.302(e) through (j) with no break in service of more than 3 days, your enrollment is not affected. If you have a break in service of more than 3 days, your enrollment stops.
(c) If you did not elect to enroll in FEDVIP and then transfer to an excluded position, you lose all rights to enroll at that time.
§ 894.304
Am I eligible to enroll if I'm retired or receiving workers' compensation?
If you are retired, receiving workers'
compensation
, or are a survivor
annuitant
, you are eligible if you meet the definition of
annuitant
in 5 U.S.C. 8901(3).
§ 894.305
Am I eligible to enroll if I am a former spouse receiving an apportionment of annuity?
No. Former spouses receiving an apportionment of annuity are not eligible to enroll in FEDVIP. However, a
TEI former spouse
is eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan as long as he or she remains unremarried.
[83 FR 58178, Nov. 19, 2018]
§ 894.306
Are foster children eligible as family members?
Generally, foster children are eligible for coverage as
family members
under FEDVIP. However, a foster child is excluded from the definition of a
TEI family member,
except a foster child who is a ward in the legal custody of a
sponsor.
A pre-adoptive child and an eligible ward in the legal custody of a
sponsor
are eligible as
TEI family members.
[84 FR 26544, June 7, 2019]
§ 894.307
Are disabled children age 22 or over eligible as family members?
(a) Except as provided at paragraph (b) of this section, a
child
age 22 or over is an eligible
family member
if the
child
is incapable of self-support because of a physical or mental disability that existed before the
child
reached age 22.
(b) A
TEI child
is a
TEI family member
as long as the
TEI child
is under the age of 21 or 23 as provided at 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D) or (I), and, if disabled during the age of eligibility, the
TEI child
remains a
TEI family member
regardless of age as long as the
TEI child
meets the standard for incapacity and support at 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D)(iii) or incapacity and dependency at 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(I)(ii)(III), (iii), (iv) and (v).
[83 FR 58178, Nov. 19, 2018]
§ 894.308
How do I establish the dependency of my recognized natural child?
(a) Dependency is established for a recognized natural child who lives with the
enrollee
in a regular parent-child relationship, a recognized natural child for whom a judicial determination of support has been obtained, or a recognized natural child to whose support the
enrollee
makes regular and substantial contributions.
(b) The following are examples of proof of regular and substantial support. More than one of the following proofs may be required to show support of a recognized natural child who does not live with the
enrollee
in a regular parent-child relationship and for whom a judicial determination of support has not been obtained:
(1) Evidence of eligibility as a dependent child for benefits under other State or Federal programs;
(2) Proof of inclusion of the child as a dependent on the
enrollee's
income tax returns;
(3) Canceled checks, money orders, or receipts for periodic payments from
the
enrollee
for or on behalf of the child.
(4) Evidence of goods or services which show regular and substantial contributions of considerable value;
(5) Any other evidence which OPM shall find to be sufficient proof of support or of paternity or maternity.
[78 FR 64879, Oct. 30, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.309
I am a TEI-D or TEI-V. Am I eligible to enroll in FEDVIP, and cover my TEI family members?
(a)
FEDVIP dental plan.
(1) A
sponsor
who is a
TEI-D
is eligible to enroll and cover
TEI-D family members
under the enrollment.
(2) A
sponsor
who is a
TEI-D
but who does not enroll even though eligible, is not an
enrollee
and cannot enroll or cover
TEI family members.
(3) A
TEI certifying family member
who is a
TEI-D
is eligible to enroll and to cover
TEI-D family members
under the enrollment when:
(i) The
sponsor
is not a
TEI-D;
(ii) The
sponsor
is deceased; or
(iii) The
sponsor
is a
TEI-D
described at § 894.804(b)(1) or (2) who does not enroll (therefore is not an
enrollee
and cannot cover
TEI family members
) and the
sponsor:
(A) Receives dental services from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA);
(B) Has employer-sponsored dental coverage without a family coverage option; or
(C) Has a medical or dental condition that prevents him or her from obtaining dental benefits.
(b)
FEDVIP vision plan.
(1) A
sponsor
who is a
TEI-V
is eligible to enroll and cover
TEI-V family members.
(2) A
TEI certifying family member
who is a
TEI-V
is eligible to enroll and cover
TEI-V family members
under the enrollment when:
(i) The
sponsor
is not a
TEI-V;
or
(ii) The
sponsor
is deceased.
(3) A
TEI former spouse
is eligible to enroll for self only, but may not elect a self plus one or self and family
type of enrollment
and may not cover
family members,
even if they are
TEI family members.
[83 FR 58178, Nov. 19, 2018]

# Subpart D—Cost of Coverage
§ 894.401
How do I pay premiums?
(a)
Employees
and employees of the United States Postal Service pay premiums through payroll allotments.
(b)
Annuitants
and survivor
annuitants
pay premiums through annuity allotments.
(c)
Compensationers
pay premiums through allotments from
compensation
payments.
(d) In limited circumstances, individuals may make direct premium payments. See § 894.405.
(e) A
sponsor, TEI certifying family member, TEI former spouse, or TEI
who is an unremarried survivor pays premiums the following ways:
(1) A
sponsor
or
TEI certifying family member
who receives uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay shall pay premiums through deduction from payroll (including uniformed services retirement pay deduction).
(2) A
sponsor
or
TEI certifying family member
who is not described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and a
TEI former spouse
or
TEI
who is an unremarried survivor shall pay premiums through:
(i) Automatic bank withdrawal; or
(ii) Direct premium payments.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47747, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.402
Do the premiums I pay reflect the cost of providing benefits?
The premiums you pay shall reasonably and equitably reflect the cost of the benefits provided.
§ 894.403
Are FEDVIP premiums paid on a pre-tax basis?
(a) Your FEDVIP premiums are paid on a pre-tax basis (called premium conversion) if you are an active
employee
or
employee
of the United States Postal Service, your salary is sufficient to make the premium allotments, and your agency will be able to make pre-tax allotments.
(b) Your FEDVIP premiums are
not
paid on a pre-tax basis if:
(1) You are an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service in nonpay status or an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal
Service whose salary is not high enough to make premium allotments, or your agency is unable to make pre-tax allotments;
(2) You are an
annuitant
, a survivor
annuitant
, or a
compensationer
;
(3) Your enrollment change was made effective retroactively which resulted in additional premium withholdings, unless it is as a result of birth or adoption of a
child
;
(4) You have been approved to pay premiums directly to the
Administrator
;
(5) You are a
TEI
; or
(6) You are an employee of the United States Postal Service not eligible to enroll in the FEHB Program under part 890 of this chapter.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 64879, Oct. 30, 2013; 83 FR 32193, July 12, 2018; 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47747, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.404
May I opt out of premium conversion?
No, all enrolled
employees
whose salary is sufficient to make premium allotments and whose agency is able to make pre-tax allotments must participate in premium conversion.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.405
What happens if I go into nonpay status or if my pay/annuity is insufficient to cover the allotments?
(a) If your pay,
annuity
, or
compensation
is too low to cover the premium allotments, or if you go into a nonpay status, contact the
Administrator
to arrange to pay your premiums directly to the
Administrator
.
(b) If you do not make the premium payments, your FEDVIP coverage will stop. You will not be able to reenroll until the next open season after:
(1) You are in pay status; or
(2) Your pay is sufficient to make the premium allotments.
(c) If you are a FEDVIP
enrollee
, who due to a lapse in appropriations is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay due to such a lapse, your FEDVIP coverage will not stop during such a lapse. Upon the end of such a lapse, premiums will be paid to the Carrier from back pay made available as soon as practicable upon the end of such a lapse.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 17274, Apr. 2, 2021; 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.406
What happens if my uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay is insufficient to cover my FEDVIP premiums, or I go into a nonpay status?
(a) You must contact the
Administrator
to arrange to pay your premiums by direct premium payment or automatic bank withdrawal to the
Administrator.
(b) If you do not make the premium payments, your FEDVIP coverage will stop. You will not be able to reenroll until the next open season after:
(1) You are in pay status; or
(2) Your uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay (retired, retainer, or equivalent) is sufficient to make the premium payment.
(c) If you are a FEDVIP
enrollee
who is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay due to such a lapse, your coverage will not stop during such a lapse. Upon the end of such a lapse, premiums will be paid to the Carrier using back pay.
[83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 86 FR 17274, Apr. 2, 2021; 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]

# Subpart E—Enrollment and Changing Enrollment
§ 894.501
When may I enroll?
You may enroll:
(a) During the annual open season;
(b) Within 60
days
after you first become eligible as:
(1) A new
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service;
(2) A previously ineligible
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service who transfers to a covered position;
(3) A new survivor
annuitant,
if not already covered under FEDVIP;
(4) An
employee
or an employee of the United States Postal Service working on a temporary appointment as stated in § 894.302(e)(5); an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service working on a seasonal schedule
as stated in § 894.302(f); or an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service working on an intermittent schedule as stated in § 894.302(g);
(5) An
employee
in a position identified by OPM that provides emergency response services for wildland fire protection pursuant to § 890.102(h) of this chapter; or an
employee
performing similar types of emergency response services pursuant to § 890.102(i) of this chapter for whom OPM grants eligibility to enroll based on a request by the employing agency. In granting eligibility requests, OPM may limit the coverage of intermittent employees to the periods of time during which they are in a pay status;
(6) A
TEI certifying family member,
but only if, on your first date of eligibility to enroll, your
sponsor
is not a
TEI
or is deceased, or for FEDVIP dental coverage, if your
sponsor
is defined at § 894.309(a)(3)(iii); or
(7) A
TEI former spouse;
(c) Within 60 days of when you return to service following a break in service of at least 30 days;
(d) From 31 days before you or an eligible family member loses other dental or vision coverage to 60 days after a QLE that allows you to enroll;
(e) For a
sponsor
who becomes eligible as a
TEI,
from 31 days before you lose other dental or vision coverage as an active duty service member to 60 days after you become eligible to enroll as a uniformed services retiree who is a
TEI;
(f) From 31 days before you get married to 60 days after;)
(g) Within 60 days after returning to Federal employment or employment with the United States Postal Service after being on leave without pay if you did not have Federal dental or vision coverage prior to going on leave without pay, or your coverage was terminated or canceled during your period of leave without pay;
(h) Within 60 days of your
annuity
or
compensation
being restored after having been terminated; or
(i) For a
TEI,
within 60 days of your uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay being restored after having been reduced, forfeited, or terminated.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 20514, Apr. 20, 2010; 79 FR 41405, July 16, 2014; 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47747, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.502
What are the Qualifying Life Events (QLEs) that allow me to enroll or become covered in FEDVIP outside of open season?
You may enroll or become covered outside of open season if you are otherwise eligible to enroll and:
(a) You or a
family member or TEI family member
lose other dental/vision coverage;
(b) Your
annuity
or compensation is restored after having been terminated;
(c) You return to pay status as an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service after being on leave without pay due to deployment to active military duty;
(d) You are an
employee
or employee of the United States Postal Service and you get married;
(e) You return to Federal employment or employment of the United States Postal Service after being on leave without pay if you did not have Federal dental or vision coverage prior to going on leave without pay, or your coverage was terminated or canceled during your period of leave without pay;
(f) You are a
TEI
and your uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay is restored after having been reduced, forfeited, or terminated; or
(g) You are not a
TEI
and you marry a
TEI
and can be covered as a
TEI family member;
or, you are not a
TEI
and you marry a non-
TEI sponsor
that is on active duty and can be covered as
a TEI certifying family member.
However, upon remarriage, a
TEI former spouse
or
TEI
surviving spouse or widow loses status as a
TEI
with respect to a former or deceased
sponsor.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 41405, July 16, 2014; 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.503
Are belated enrollments or changes allowed?
(a) The time limit for enrolling or changing your enrollment may be extended up to 3 months after the date you became newly eligible or had a
QLE
or after the end of an open season. To qualify, you must demonstrate to the
Administrator
that you were not able to enroll or change your enrollment on time for reasons beyond your control.
(b) If the
Administrator
allows you to make a belated enrollment or enrollment change, you must enroll or change within 30
days
after the
Administrator
notifies you of its determination.
§ 894.504
When is my enrollment effective?
(a) Open season enrollments are effective on the date set by OPM.
(b) If you enroll when you first become eligible your enrollment is effective the 1st
day
of the pay period following the one in which the
Administrator
receives your enrollment, but no earlier than December 31, 2006.
(c) If you are a
TEI
and enroll or are enrolled during the open season, your enrollment is effective no earlier than January 1, 2019.
(d) Outside of open season, if you are an active duty service member who becomes a uniformed services retiree (
TEI
) and enroll or are enrolled 31 days before you lose other dental or vision coverage, your enrollment is effective no earlier than the date you lost other coverage.
(e) A
QLE
enrollment or change is effective the 1st
day
of the pay period following the date of your
QLE.
)
(f)(1) A belated open season enrollment or change is effective retroactive to the date it would have been effective if you had made a timely enrollment or request for a change.
(2) Any belated enrollment or change outside of open season that goes beyond the allowable 60-day enrollment timeframe is effective retroactive to the 1st
day
of the pay period following the one in which you became newly eligible or the date of your
QLE.
(3) You must pay any retroactive premiums due to a belated enrollment or request for a change.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.505
Are retroactive premiums paid with pre-tax dollars (premium conversion)?
Retroactive premiums are not paid under premium conversion, except when you are changing your enrollment retroactively as a result of birth or adoption of a
child.
Any additional withholdings for retroactive premiums that are due must be made with after-tax dollars. The
Administrator
will bill you directly for any retroactive premiums that must be paid with after-tax dollars.
§ 894.506
How often will there be open seasons?
There will be an annual open season for FEDVIP at the same time as the annual Federal Benefits Open Season.
§ 894.507
After I'm enrolled, may I change from one dental or vision plan or plan option to another?
(a) You may change from one dental plan to another, and/or from one vision plan to another, or you may change from one plan option to another option in that same plan:
(1) During the annual open season;
(2) When you get married (except for
TEIs
who are unremarried survivors,
TEI former spouses,
and
TEI children);
or
(3) For
employees
or employees of the United States Postal Service, when you return to Federal or Postal employment after being on leave without pay if you did not have Federal dental or vision coverage prior to going on leave without pay, or your coverage was terminated or canceled during your period of leave without pay.
(b)(1) If you are enrolled in a dental or vision plan with a geographically restricted service area, and you or a covered eligible
family member
or
TEI family member
move out of the service area, you may change to a different dental or vision plan that serves that area.
(2) You may make this change at any time before or after the move, once you
or a covered eligible
family member
or
TEI family member
has a new address.
(3) The enrollment change is effective the first day of the pay period following the pay period in which you make the change.
(4) You may not change your
type of enrollment
unless you also have a
QLE
that allows you to change your
type of enrollment.
[83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.508
When may I increase my type of enrollment?
(a) You may increase your
type of enrollment:
(1) during the annual open season; or
(2) If you have a
QLE
that is consistent with increasing your
type of enrollment.
(b) Increasing your
type of enrollment
means going from:
(1) Self only to self plus one;
(2) Self only to self and family; or
(3) Self plus one to self and family.
(c) You may increase your
type of enrollment
during the time period beginning 31
days
before the
QLE
and ending 60
days
after the
QLE.
(d) Your new
type of enrollment
is effective the 1st
day
of the pay period following the pay period in which you make the change.
(e) You may not change from one dental or vision plan to another, except as stated in § 894.507.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 41406, July 16, 2014]
§ 894.509
What are the QLEs that are consistent with increasing my type of enrollment?
(a) Marriage; except for a
TEI
who is an unremarried survivor, widow or widower;
TEI former spouse;
and
TEI child(ren);
(b)
Acquiring an eligible child
or
TEI child;
or
(c) Loss of other dental or vision coverage by an eligible
family member
or
TEI family member.
[83 FR 58179, Nov. 19, 2018]
§ 894.510
When may I decrease my type of enrollment?
(a) You may decrease your
type of enrollment:
(1) During the annual open season;
(2) If you have a
QLE
that is consistent with decreasing your
type of enrollment
; or
(3) You are an
enrollee,
and under § 894.403(b) your FEDVIP premiums are not paid on a pre-tax basis, and your
family member
or
TEI family member
becomes eligible for dental or vision benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs. An
enrollee
must submit the request within 60 days after notification that your
family member
or
TEI family member is eligible for
dental or vision benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b) Decreasing your
type of enrollment
means going from:
(1) Self and family to self plus one;
(2) Self and family to self only; or
(3) Self plus one to self only.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, you may decrease your
type of enrollment
only during the period beginning 31 days before your QLE and ending 60 days after your QLE.
(2) You may make any of the following enrollment changes at any time beginning 31 days before a QLE listed in § 894.511(a):
(i) A decrease in your self plus one enrollment;
(ii) A decrease in your self and family enrollment to a self plus one enrollment, when you have only one remaining eligible
family member
or
TEI family member;
or
(iii) A decrease in your self and family enrollment to a self only enrollment, when you have no remaining eligible
family members
or
TEI family members.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, your change in enrollment is effective the first day of the first pay period following the one in which you make the change.
(2) If you are making an enrollment change described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, your change in enrollment is effective on the first day of the first pay period following the QLE on which the enrollment change is based.
(e) You may not change from one dental or vision plan or option to another, except as stated in § 894.507(b).
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 20514, Apr. 20, 2010; 83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018; 88 FR 47748-47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.511
What are the QLEs that are consistent with decreasing my type of enrollment?
(a) Loss of an eligible
family member
or
TEI family member
due to:
(1) Divorce;
(2) Death; or
(3) Loss of eligibility of a previously enrolled
child
or
TEI child.
(b) You are an
enrollee
and your spouse deploys to active military service.
[83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.512
What happens if I leave Federal Government and then return?
(a) Your FEDVIP coverage terminates at the end of the pay period in which you separate from government service.
Exception:
If you separate for retirement or while in receipt of workers'
compensation
as defined in § 894.701, your FEDVIP coverage continues.
(b)(1) If you return to Federal service after a break in service of fewer than 30
days
, and you were not previously enrolled in FEDVIP, you may not enroll until the next open season or unless you have a
QLE
that allows you to enroll.
(2) If you return to Federal service after a break in service of fewer than 30
days
, and you were previously enrolled in FEDVIP, you may reenroll in the same plan(s) and plan option and with the same
type of enrollment
you had before you separated.
Exceptions:
(i) If you were enrolled in a dental or vision plan with a restricted geographic service area, and you have since moved out of the plan's service area, you may change to a different dental or vision plan that serves that area.
(ii) If you have since gained or lost an eligible
family member
, you may change your
type of enrollment
consistent with the change in the number of eligible
family members.
(3) If you return to Federal service as a new hire after a break in service of 30
days
or more, you may enroll if you were not previously enrolled, change your dental or vision plan, and/or change your
type of enrollment.
§ 894.513
Do I have to elect FEDVIP coverage each year in order to remain covered?
No. If you do not change or cancel your enrollment, and if your enrollment does not terminate pursuant to this part, then your current enrollment will continue into the next year. Before open season, you should review the plan brochure for any changes in benefits and premiums for the next year.
[83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018]

# Subpart F—Termination or Cancellation of Coverage
§ 894.601
When does my FEDVIP coverage stop?
(a) If you no longer meet the definition of an eligible
employee
as set forth in § 894.101 or
annuitant,
or
TEI,
your FEDVIP coverage stops at the end of the pay period in which you were last eligible.
(b) If you go into a period of nonpay or insufficient pay (or insufficient uniformed services pay or uniformed services retirement pay) and you do not make direct premium payments, your FEDVIP coverage stops at the end of the pay period for which your agency, retirement system,
OWCP,
uniformed services or uniformed services retirement system last deducted your premium payment.
Exception:
If you are an
enrollee
who is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay during a lapse in appropriations, your FEDVIP coverage will not stop, and your enrollment may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of premiums or other periodic charges due. Pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Public Law 116-92, such continuation of coverage during a lapse in appropriations applies to any dental or vision contract under 5 U.S.C. chapters 89A and 89B entered into before, on, or after December 20, 2019.
(c) If you are making direct premium payments or payments by automatic bank withdrawal, and you stop making the payments, your FEDVIP coverage
stops at the end of the pay period for which you last made a payment.
(d) If you cancel your enrollment during an open season, your FEDVIP coverage stops at midnight of the
day
before the effective date of an open season change as set by OPM.
(e) If you are enrolled with a combination dental and vision
carrier
with a restricted service area, and you move outside the
carrier's
service area to a service area that does not offer a combination
carrier
and you change to a dental only or vision only
carrier
, your existing combination plan coverage will stop at midnight of the
day
before the effective date of your new plan coverage.
(f) If your FEDVIP carrier discontinues participation in the program at the end of the contract year, then you must change to another
carrier
during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM will establish a time and effective date for you to change your carrier. If you do not change your carrier within the time set by OPM, your coverage will stop at midnight of the
day
before the effective date set by OPM for coverage with another
carrier.
(g) If your status as a uniformed services retiree discontinues and you become a uniformed services member on active duty, your FEDVIP dental and/or vision plan enrollment terminates and your coverage stops at the end of the last pay period for which the premium payment was made from your uniformed services retirement pay. You will still be the
sponsor
but no longer the
enrollee,
and your
TEI certifying family member
would have to reenroll in vision and cover all
TEI family members.
As
sponsor,
you must notify your
family members
of changes in your eligibility and enrollment status changes.
See
§ 894.815.
(h) If your status as a uniformed services member on active duty discontinues and you become a uniformed services retiree, the FEDVIP vision plan enrollment of your
TEI family members
terminates and coverage for your
TEI family members
will stop at the end of the pay period for which the last premium payment was made. As the
sponsor
who is an
enrollee,
you would have to enroll yourself and reenroll all
TEI family members.
As
sponsor,
you must notify your
family members
of changes in your eligibility and enrollment status changes.
See
§ 894.815.
(i) If you are an
enrollee
or
sponsor
and cancel your enrollment pursuant to § 894.602(c), your cancellation will become effective at the end of the pay period that you submit your request.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018; 86 FR 17274, Apr. 2, 2021; 88 FR 47748-47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.602
May I cancel my enrollment at any time?
Generally, an
enrollee
may only cancel an enrollment during an open season.
Exceptions:
You may cancel your dental and/or vision enrollment if:
(a) You are an
enrollee
and transfer to an eligible position with a Federal agency that provides dental or vision coverage with 50 percent or more employer-paid premiums and you enroll in that program.
(b) You are an
enrollee
and you or your spouse deploy to active military duty.
(c) You are an
enrollee
or
sponsor
who does not pay premiums on a pre-tax basis, identified at § 894.403(b), and during the course of your enrollment, you become eligible for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) dental or vision benefits. If you cancel a self plus one or self and family enrollment, as
sponsor,
you must notify your
family members
of changes in your enrollment pursuant to § 894.815. You will still be the
sponsor
but no longer the
enrollee,
and pursuant to § 894.811, your family members will only be eligible for FEDVIP dental coverage since you are a
TEI-D
who is not enrolled in FEDVIP and receives VA dental services and meets one of the conditions in § 894.309(a)(3)(iii). Upon cancellation of the enrollment, pursuant to § 894.811, a
TEI family member
can accept the responsibility to self-certify and enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan as a
TEI certifying family member
and cover other
TEI family members.
(d) Cancellations under this section will become effective at the end of the pay period that you submit your request.
[88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.603
Is there a temporary extension of coverage and conversion right when my coverage stops or when a covered family member loses eligibility?
No. There is no temporary extension of coverage, or Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC), or right to convert to an individual dental or vision policy when your FEDVIP coverage stops or when a
family member
or
TEI family member
loses eligibility under FEDVIP.
[83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018]

# Subpart G—Annuitants and Compensationers
§ 894.701
May I keep my dental and/or vision coverage when I retire or start receiving workers' compensation?
(a) Your FEDVIP coverage continues if you retire on an immediate annuity or on a disability annuity, or start receiving
compensation
from OWCP.
(b) If you retire on a Minimum Retirement Age +10 annuity that you elect to postpone in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8412(g), your FEDVIP coverage will stop when you separate from service. However, you may enroll again within 60
days
of when your annuity starts.
(c) If you retire on a deferred annuity in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8413, your FEDVIP coverage stops and you are not eligible to enroll.
§ 894.702
May I participate in open season and make changes to my enrollment as an annuitant or compensationer?
Yes.
Annuitants
and
compensationers
may participate in open season and make enrollment changes under the same circumstances as active
employees
or employees of the United States Postal Service.
[88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]
§ 894.703
How long does my coverage as an annuitant or compensationer last?
Your coverage as an
annuitant
or
compensationer
continues as long as you continue receiving an annuity or
compensation
and pay your premiums, unless you cancel your coverage during an open season or terminate coverage due to insufficient annuity or
compensation.
§ 894.704
What happens if I retire and then come back to work for the Federal Government or the United States Postal Service?
(a) If you have FEDVIP coverage as an
annuitant,
and you become reemployed in an eligible position in Federal service or United States Postal Service, you must contact the
Administrator
so it can send the request for allotments to your agency so your agency can start making the allotments from your pay.
(b) If you did not enroll in FEDVIP coverage as an
annuitant
and become reemployed in an eligible Federal position or United States Postal Service, you have 60
days
to enroll in FEDVIP.
(c) If you enroll as an
employee
the
Administrator
will stop sending requests for allotments from your annuity.
(d) If your reemployment terminates, you must notify the
Administrator
within 30 days to have your allotments withheld from your annuity payments. Otherwise, your FEDVIP coverage will terminate due to non-payment of premiums.
[73 FR 50184, Aug. 26, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]

# Subpart H—Special Provisions for TRICARE-Eligible Individuals (TEI)

# Source:
83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 894.801
Am I eligible for FEDVIP based on my eligibility to enroll in a TRICARE dental or health plan?
(a) The U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) is responsible for regulating eligibility for obtaining medical and dental care under the TRICARE Program, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 55. The FEDVIP laws at 5 U.S.C. chapter 89A was amended by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, Public Law 114-328, to allow individuals who were eligible for coverage under the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program (TRDP) in accordance with DOD rules to obtain dental coverage in a FEDVIP dental plan. Public Law 114-328 also
added a provision allowing certain individuals who are concurrently enrolled for medical care in specified TRICARE health plans to obtain FEDVIP vision coverage.
(b) Categories of individuals who were eligible for TRDP and who are eligible to be covered under a FEDVIP dental plan are set forth in § 894.802. Categories of individuals who may be covered under specified TRICARE health plans and, if so covered, are eligible to be covered under a FEDVIP vision plan, are set forth in § 894.803. Individuals eligible for FEDVIP coverage are referred to as
TRICARE eligible individuals (TEI).
(c)(1) FEDVIP rules provide an
enrollee
with the right to select:
(i) A dental and/or a vision plan; and
(ii)
Type of enrollment
that may cover the eligible individual in a self only enrollment or the eligible individual with one or more
family members
in a self plus one or self and family enrollment.
(2) For
TRICARE eligible individuals (TEI),
this means that:
(i) If the
sponsor
is both a
TEI
and enrolled, the
sponsor
may be an
enrollee
and may cover the
sponsor
and
TEI family members
under the plan.
(ii) If a
sponsor
is not eligible to enroll (or pursuant to § 894.309(a)(3)(iii) is not enrolled), a
TEI
who is a
TEI family member
may self-certify to serve as
enrollee
instead, and may cover other
TEI family members.
(d) If a FEDVIP dental or vision plan has a specific geographic enrollment area,
TEI family members
must live or work in that area in order to be enrolled for coverage. An
enrollee
whose
TEI family members
are located in different geographic locations may select a plan that is nationwide/international in scope in order to obtain accessible coverage.
§ 894.802
Am I a TEI for a FEDVIP dental plan (TEI-D) if I am eligible to enroll or be covered under the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program?
A
TRICARE-eligible individual for FEDVIP dental benefits (TEI-D)
means an individual who is eligible to be enrolled and/or who may be covered under the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program (TRDP) pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1076c(b) as set forth in 32 CFR 199.3 and 199.22. Individuals covered under any of the following programs are excluded and are
not TEI-D:
TRICARE Young Adult provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1110b; Transitional Assistance Management Program (TAMP), 10 U.S.C. 1145(a)); Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP); 10 U.S.C. 1078a; or Foreign Military (including NATO) sponsor/family coverage.
§ 894.803
Am I a TEI for a FEDVIP vision plan (TEI-V) based on my concurrent enrollment in a TRICARE health plan?
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a
TEI-V
is an individual who is concurrently enrolled in and/or covered pursuant to:
(1) 10 U.S.C. 1076d (TRICARE Reserve Select (TRS));
(2) 10 U.S.C. 1076e (TRICARE Retired Reserve (TRR));
(3) 10 U.S.C. 1079(a) (uniformed services active duty family members concurrently enrolled in TRICARE Select or TRICARE Prime);
(4) 10 U.S.C. 1086(c) (uniformed services retirees and retiree family members or former spouses concurrently enrolled in TRICARE Select or TRICARE Prime); or
(5) 10 U.S.C. 1086(d) (TRICARE for Life (TFL)), as set forth in 32 CFR 199.3. The provisions of TFL require Medicare eligible retirees and individual Medicare eligible retiree family members or former spouses to enroll in Medicare Part B (requires payment of applicable premiums), otherwise they are not a
TEI-V.
(b) An individual covered under any of the following programs is
not
a
TEI-V:
(1) TRICARE Young Adult provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1110b;
(2) Transitional Assistance Management Program (TAMP), 10 U.S.C. 1145(a);
(3) Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP), 10 U.S.C. 1078a; or
(4) Foreign Military (including NATO) sponsor/family coverage.
(c) An active duty member of the uniformed services under 10 U.S.C. 1074(a) is
not
a
TEI-V.
§ 894.804
Am I a sponsor for a FEDVIP dental or vision plan?
(a) Generally, the sponsor is the individual who is eligible for medical or dental benefits under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55 based on his or her direct affiliation with the uniformed services, including military members of the National Guard and Reserves. Relationship to a sponsor conveys TEI status to a TEI family member. If two parents of a TEI child are entitled to be a sponsor, see restriction on dual enrollment at § 894.204.
(b)
Sponsor
for a FEDVIP dental plan means:
(1) Retiree. A member or former member of a uniformed service who is entitled to uniformed services retirement pay. To determine a
sponsor's enrollee
status for a FEDVIP dental plan, see § 894.309 and the definition of
TEI-D;
(2) Retired Reserve member under the age of 60 (“Gray Area Retiree”). To determine
sponsor's enrollee
status for a FEDVIP dental plan, see § 894.309 and the definition of
TEI-D;
(3) Medal of Honor recipient who is not otherwise entitled to dental benefits; or
(4) Deceased Member described in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section who died after retiring from active duty and a deceased member who was a Medal of Honor recipient described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Sponsor
for a FEDVIP vision plan includes:
(1) Retiree. A member or former member of a uniformed service who is entitled to uniformed services retirement pay.
(2) Retired Reserve member under the age of 60 (“Gray Area Retiree”);
(3) Medal of Honor recipient who is enrolled in TRICARE Select or TRICARE
Prime and who is not on active duty;
(4) Member of the uniformed services (active or Reserve Component) on active duty for more than 30 days. An active duty member of the uniformed services under 10 U.S.C. 1074(a) is not a
TEI-V
and is not an
enrollee
for a FEDVIP vision plan, see § 894.309 and definition of
TEI-V;
(5) Ready Reserve member;
(6) Deceased member described at paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section; or
(7) Deceased Reserve Component member (deceased in the line of duty).
[83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 1599, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 894.805
I am not a TEI-D or TEI-V, but I am a sponsor. Am I eligible to cover my TEI family members?
(a)
FEDVIP dental plan.
(1) No, a
sponsor
must be both a
TEI-D
and an
enrollee,
in order to cover
TEI family members
in a FEDVIP dental plan.
(2) However, a
TEI certifying family member
may enroll and cover
TEI family members
in a FEDVIP dental plan if the
sponsor
described at § 894.804 is a retiree or Retired Reserve Member who is a
TEI-D,
but who is not enrolled and the retiree or Retired Reserve Member:
(i) Receives VA dental services;
(ii) Has employer-sponsored dental coverage without a family coverage option; or
(iii) Has a medical or dental condition that prevents him or her from obtaining dental benefits.
See
§ 894.309.
(b)
FEDVIP vision plan.
(1) No, a
sponsor
must be both a
TEI-V
and an
enrollee
in order to enroll and cover
TEI family members
in his or her FEDVIP vision plan.
(2) However, a
TEI certifying family member
may enroll
TEI family members.
A uniformed services member (active or Reserve Component) on active duty for more than 30 days described in § 894.804(c)(4) is not a
TEI-V
and is not eligible to enroll and cover
TEI family members. See
§ 894.309.
§ 894.806
Can a retiree or Retired Reserve member enroll and cover TEI family members in a FEDVIP dental plan?
Generally, yes, since a retiree or Retired Reserve member who is a
sponsor
is also a
TEI-D.
However, if a retiree or Retired Reserve member who is eligible to enroll does not in fact enroll, then the member is not an
enrollee
and cannot cover
TEI family members.
A
TEI certifying family member
may serve as
enrollee
only if the member does not enroll and meets at least one of the following conditions:
(a) Receives VA dental services;
(b) Has employer-sponsored dental coverage without a family coverage option; or
(c) Has a medical or dental condition that prevents him or her from obtaining dental benefits.
See
description of eligibility in § 894.309(a)(3)(iii).
§ 894.807
Can an active duty member enroll or be covered under a FEDVIP vision plan?
No, a uniformed services member on active duty is not a
TEI-V
and may not enroll or be covered under a FEDVIP vision plan. However, an active duty member is a sponsor, therefore their
TEI family members
may be eligible to enroll in a vision plan.
See
definition of
TEI
for FEDVIP vision benefits (
TEI-V
) in § 894.101.
§ 894.808
I am a TEI family member. Can I enroll myself in FEDVIP?
Generally, you are not eligible to enroll yourself as a
TEI family member.
Only an
enrollee
designated at subpart C of this part may enroll in FEDVIP and select a plan, option, and
type of enrollment
(self only, self plus one, or self and family) that may cover
TEI family members.
There is only one FEDVIP dental enrollment and one FEDVIP vision enrollment associated with a
sponsor
and either the
sponsor
or a
TEI certifying family member
may be the
enrollee,
who may enroll, and cover
TEI family members
under the enrollment, in accordance with § 894.309.
§ 894.809
Who is a TEI certifying family member, and may I be the enrollee if I accept this responsibility?
(a)
TEI certifying family member
means, where the
sponsor
is not an
enrollee
under § 894.309, the
TEI family member
in order of precedence, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, who may accept responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
by enrolling and, if appropriate, covering the
sponsor's TEI family members
by electing a self plus one or self and family
type of enrollment.
Accepting responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
includes consulting all
TEI family members
regarding their preference for coverage under the enrollment, electing an appropriate plan, option, and
type of enrollment.
(b) The following order of precedence governs which
TEI family member
may self-certify as the
enrollee:
(1) An unremarried surviving spouse of a retiree or Medal of Honor recipient, if any, is the
TEI certifying family member
who may enroll and cover surviving
TEI child
(ren) of the retiree.
(2) If there is no unremarried surviving spouse of a retiree or Medal of Honor recipient, the surviving
TEI child
of a retiree who accepts responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
is the
TEI certifying family member
who may enroll and cover other surviving child(ren) who are
TEI family member(s)
of the deceased retiree.
(3) The
TEI family member
who is a
spouse
is the
TEI certifying family member
who may enroll and cover other
TEI family member(s).
(4) If there is no spouse, the
TEI family member
who accepts responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
is the
TEI certifying family member
who may enroll and cover other
TEI family member(s).
(c) In the event that the
TEI family member
or
TEI certifying family member
is a minor child or a disabled adult dependent, a legal guardian may exercise the
TEI's
rights on his or her behalf.
(d) Accepting responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
means that you accept the
Administrator's
authority to make reconsideration decisions under § 894.104 and OPM's authority to correct enrollments under § 894.105.
§ 894.810
If I enroll for self plus one, may I decide which TEI family member to cover?
Generally, yes, as specified in § 894.202. However, if you are an
enrollee
and you do not elect a
type of enrollment
that covers a
TEI family member,
that
TEI family member
will not have FEDVIP coverage or benefits. A
TEI family member
who is not a
TEI certifying family member
may not self-certify and enroll himself or herself as a
TEI family member
in a FEDVIP plan. Note however, that a
TEI family member
may seek reconsideration of an erroneous enrollment under § 894.104, and the
Administrator
and OPM retain authority to correct enrollments under § 894.105.
§ 894.811
I am a TEI family member of a sponsor who is a retiree or Retired Reserve member who is not on active duty. My sponsor is a TEI-D but is not enrolled in a FEDVIP dental plan. Can I enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan even though my sponsor is eligible to enroll but is not enrolled?
Generally, if your
sponsor
is a
TEI-D,
he or she must enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan in order to cover
TEI family members.
As an exception, however, a
TEI family member
can accept the responsibility to self-certify and enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan as a
TEI certifying family member,
and cover other
TEI family members,
if the
sponsor
who is a
TEI-D
(eligible for FEDVIP dental benefits) is not enrolled and the
sponsor
meets at least one of the following conditions identified in § 894.309(a)(3)(iii):
(a) The retiree
sponsor
receives VA dental services;
(b) The retiree
sponsor
has employer-sponsored dental coverage without a family coverage option; or
(c) The retiree
sponsor
has a medical or dental condition that prevents him or her from obtaining dental benefits.
§ 894.812
I am a widow or widower
TEI family member.
Can I enroll my TEI child who is a TEI family member without enrolling myself in FEDVIP?
No. A widow or widower who is a
TEI family member
is the
TEI certifying family member.
Because there is no available
sponsor,
you are the
enrollee,
and must either:
(a) Enroll yourself and the
TEI child
in a self plus one enrollment; or
(b) Enroll all
TEI family members
in a self and family enrollment, in order for the
TEI child
to receive FEDVIP coverage.
§ 894.813
I am a TEI former spouse. Am I eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan?
Yes, you are eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan only. A
TEI former spouse
is not eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan. You are a
TEI-V,
and you are an
enrollee,
however your
type of enrollment
is limited to self only. You may not enroll a child, even if the child is a
TEI child.
The
TEI child
will have his or her opportunity for FEDVIP dental and/or vision coverage through your ex-spouse
sponsor,
or
TEI certifying family member
as the case may be. It is possible for a minor
TEI child
to be the
TEI certifying family member
eligible to enroll as an
enrollee.
If this is the case, you (or the
TEI child's
legal guardian if not you) may effectuate that enrollment by accepting responsibility on behalf of the
TEI child
to self-certify as
enrollee
by enrolling and, if appropriate, covering other
TEI family members
of the
sponsor.
Accepting responsibility to self-certify as
enrollee
on behalf of the
TEI child
includes consulting all of the
TEI family members of the TEI certifying family member
regarding their preference for coverage under the enrollment, electing an appropriate plan, option and
type of enrollment,
and paying the premium on behalf of the
TEI child
and other
TEI family members
for the enrollment.
§ 894.814
Is a foster child included in the definition of TEI family member?
Generally, a foster child is excluded from coverage as they are not defined to be a
TEI family member.
However, a pre-adoptive child, adopted child, and an eligible ward in the legal custody of a
sponsor,
including a foster child who is a ward in the legal custody of a
sponsor,
are considered
TEI family members.
[84 FR 26544 June 7, 2019]
§ 894.815
I am a sponsor. Am I responsible to notify the Administrator and my TEI family members when my FEDVIP dental or vision eligibility and/or enrollment status changes?
Yes, as
sponsor,
you must notify the
Administrator
and your
TEI family members
of changes in your eligibility and enrollment status. Status as an
enrollee,
with a right to the enrollment, depends upon your
sponsor
status and eligibility as a
TEI,
and the enrollment action you have taken. Failure to notify the
Administrator
and your
TEI family members
of a change in status within the uniformed services that affects your eligibility to enroll may result in invalid continued enrollment, or an unexpected termination of enrollment, for your
TEI family members,
for which you will be responsible.
(a)
Example 1.
(1) Status change from non-enrollee to
enrollee.
(2) You are on active duty (not
TEI
and not an
enrollee
in a dental or vision plan). Your
TEI certifying family member
may enroll and cover
TEI family members
in a FEDVIP plan. Upon a change in your status to a retiree or Retired Reserve member (who is not on active duty), you become a
TEI
and may enroll yourself and
TEI family members
in a FEDVIP plan. Your
TEI certifying family member
is no longer the
enrollee,
and you must notify the
Administrator
of your change in status. The
Administrator
will send the
TEI certifying family member
notice that his or her enrollment is terminated, and notify them that their
sponsor
(
i.e.
you), may enroll, and may cover
TEI family members
on the new enrollment.
(b)
Example 2.
(1) Status change from non-enrollee to
enrollee.
(2) You are a retiree or a retired Reserve member and as a
TEI-D
you are eligible for, but not enrolled in, a FEDVIP dental plan and you satisfy at least one of the conditions at § 894.309(a)(3)(iii). You are not an
enrollee
because you are not enrolled, and therefore cannot cover
TEI family members.
Your
TEI certifying family member
may enroll and cover
TEI family members
in a FEDVIP dental plan. Upon a change in your status causing you to no longer satisfy one of the conditions, your
TEI certifying family member
is no longer the
enrollee,
and you must notify the
Administrator.
The
Administrator
will send your
TEI certifying family member
notice that their enrollment is terminated, and notify them that their
sponsor
(
i.e.
you), may enroll, and may cover
TEI family members
on the new enrollment.
(c)
Example 3.
(1) Status change from
enrollee
to non-enrollee.
(2) You are a retiree or Retired Reserve member (who is not on active duty), and you go on active duty. You lose
TEI
status and you are no longer eligible to be an
enrollee.
You must notify the
Administrator
of your change in status. The
Administrator
will terminate your enrollment and notify you that a
TEI certifying family member
may accept responsibility to self-certify as
enrollee
by enrolling and, if appropriate, covering other
TEI family members
by electing self plus one or self and family
type of enrollment
for only a FEDVIP vision plan. You are responsible to notify your covered
TEI family members
that your enrollment will terminate, and of their opportunity to accept responsibility to self-certify as
enrollee.
§ 894.816
If I return from active duty and retire, what happens to my TEI family members' enrollment in their FEDVIP vision plan?
As a uniformed services member on active duty, you are the
sponsor
but you are not eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan and you cannot be the
enrollee.
A
TEI certifying family member
may be the
enrollee
while you are on active duty. Upon your retirement, however, you become eligible to enroll as a
TEI-V
and
TEI-D,
and the current
enrollee
status of your
TEI certifying family member
ends. As
sponsor,
you are responsible for notifying the
Administrator
and your
TEI family members
of your change in status. The
TEI family members'
enrollment will be terminated and as a
TEI-V
and
TEI-D
who is both
sponsor
and
enrollee,
you may enroll yourself and cover
TEI family members. See
§ 894.601.
§ 894.817
If I am a retiree who is a TEI-V and I return to active duty, what happens to my TEI family members' enrollment in their FEDVIP vision plan?
If you and your
TEI family members
are enrolled in a FEDVIP vision plan while you are retired, and you return to active duty, you will no longer be eligible to enroll in a FEDVIP vision plan and cannot continue to be the
enrollee
even though you are the
sponsor.
The current enrollment for you and your
TEI family members
will terminate and your coverage stops at the end of the pay period for which the premium payment was made from your uniformed services retirement pay. A
TEI certifying family member
may accept responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee
by enrolling and, if appropriate, covering other
TEI family members.
You are responsible for notifying your covered
TEI family members
that your enrollment will terminate and of their opportunity to accept responsibility to self-certify as the
enrollee.
Once the
TEI certifying family member
enrolls, and covers your
TEI family members,
they can remain enrolled in a FEDVIP vision plan for the duration of your active duty service.
See
§ 894.601.

# Subpart I—Benefits in Underserved Areas

# Source:
83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 894.901
Will benefits be available in underserved areas?
(a) Dental and vision plans under FEDVIP will include underserved areas in their service areas and provide benefits to
enrollees
in underserved areas.
(b) In any area where a FEDVIP dental or vision plan does not meet OPM access standards, including underserved areas,
enrollees
may receive services from non-network providers.
(c) Contracts under FEDVIP shall include access standards as defined by OPM and payment levels for services to non-network providers in areas that do not meet access standards.
[83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 47749, July 25, 2023]
Pt. 900

# PART 900—INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT PROGRAMS
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs in the Office of Personnel Management—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
Sec.
900.401
Purpose.
900.402
Application of this subpart.
900.403
Definitions.
900.404
Discrimination prohibited.
900.405
Assurances required.
900.406
Compliance information.
900.407
Conduct of investigations.
900.408
Procedure for effecting compliance.
900.409
Hearings.
900.410
Decisions and notices.
900.411
Judicial review.
900.412
Effect on other regulations, forms, and instructions.
Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 900—Activities to Which This Subpart Applies
Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 900—Activities to Which This Subpart Applies When a Primary Objective of the Federal Assistance Is To Provide Employment
Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 900—Application of Subpart D, Part 900, to Programs Receiving Federal Financial Assistance of the Office of Personnel Management
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration
900.601
Purpose.
900.602
Applicability.
900.603
Standards for a merit system of personnel administration.
900.604
Compliance.
900.605
Establishing a merit requirement.
Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 900—Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration

# Subpart G—Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Federally Assisted Programs of the Office of Personnel Management
900.701
Purpose.
900.702
Applicability.
900.703
Definitions.
900.704
Discrimination prohibited.
900.705
Program accessibility.
900.706
Employment practices.
900.707
Certification required.
900.708
Self-evaluation.
900.709
Notice and consultation.
900.710
Procedure for effecting compliance.

# Authority:
Sec. 503, Pub. L. 91-648, 84 Stat. 1926 (42 U.S.C. 4763), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
36 FR 15515, Aug. 17, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs in the Office of Personnel Management—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

# Authority:
Sec. 602, 78 Stat. 252 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1).

# Source:
38 FR 17920, July 5, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 900.401
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to effectuate the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (hereafter
referred to as title VI) to the end that a person in the United States shall not, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from OPM.
§ 900.402
Application of this subpart.
(a) This subpart applies to each program for which Federal financial assistance is authorized under a law administered by OPM, including the federally assisted programs listed in appendix A to this subpart. It also applies to money paid, property transferred, or other Federal financial assistance extended under a program after the effective date of this subpart pursuant to an application approved before that effective date. This subpart does not apply to:
(1) Federal financial assistance by way of insurance or guaranty contracts;
(2) Money paid, property transferred, or other assistance extended under a program before the effective date of this subpart, except when the assistance was subject to the title VI regulations of an agency whose responsibilities are now exercised by OPM;
(3) Assistance to any individual who is the ultimate beneficiary under a program; or
(4) Employment practices, under a program, of an employer, employment agency, or labor organization, except to the extent described in § 900.404(c).
The fact that a program is not listed in appendix A to this subpart does not mean, if title VI is otherwise applicable, that the program is not covered. Other programs under statutes now in force or hereinafter enacted may be added to appendix A to this subpart.
(b) In a program receiving Federal financial assistance in the form, or for the acquisition, of real property or an interest in real property, to the extent that rights to space on, over, or under that property are included as part of the program receiving that assistance, the nondiscrimination requirement of this subpart extends to a facility located wholly or in part in that space.
§ 900.403
Definitions.
Unless the context requires otherwise, in this subpart:
(a)
Applicant
means a person who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by OPM, or by a primary recipient, as a condition to eligibility for Federal financial assistance, and
application
means that application, request, or plan.
(b)
Facility
includes all or any part of structures, equipment, or other real or personal property or interests therein, and the provision of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration, or acquisition of facilities.
(c)
Federal financial assistance
includes:
(1) Grants and loans of Federal funds;
(2) The grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property;
(3) The detail of Federal personnel;
(4) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in the property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by the sale or lease to the recipient; and
(5) A Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.
(d)
Primary recipient
means a recipient that is authorized or required to extend Federal financial assistance to another recipient for the purpose of carrying out a program.
(e)
Program
includes a program, project, or activity for the provision of services, financial aid, or other benefits to individuals (including education or training or other services whether provided through employees of the recipient of Federal financial assistance or provided by others through contracts or other arrangements with the recipient, and including work opportunities), or for the provision of facilities for furnishing services, financial aid, or other benefits to individuals. The services, financial aid, or other benefits provided under a program receiving Federal financial assistance are deemed to include a service, financial
aid, or other benefits provided with the aid of Federal financial assistance or with the aid of any non-Federal funds, property, or other resources required to be expended or made available for the program to meet the matching requirements or other conditions which must be met in order to receive the Federal financial assistance, and to include services, financial aid, or other benefits provided in or through a facility provided with the aid of Federal financial assistance or non-Federal resources.
(f)
Recipient
may mean any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, or instrumentality thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any individual in any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or territory or possession of the United States, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but the term does not include any ultimate beneficiary under a program.
(g)
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, or any person to whom he has delegated his authority in the matter concerned.
§ 900.404
Discrimination prohibited.
(a)
General.
A person in the United States shall not, on the ground of race, color, or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under, a program to which this subpart applies.
(b)
Specific discriminatory actions prohibited.
(1) A recipient under a program to which this subpart applies may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, on the ground of race, color, or national origin—
(i) Deny a person a service, financial aid, or other benefit provided under the program;
(ii) Provide a service, financial aid, or other benefit to a person which is different, or is provided in a different manner, from that provided to others under the program;
(iii) Subject a person to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to his receipt of a service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(iv) Restrict a person in any way in the enjoyment of an advantage or privilege enjoyed by others receiving a service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(v) Treat a person differently from others in determining whether he satisfies an admission, enrollment, quota, eligibility, membership, or other requirement or condition which persons must meet in order to be provided a service, financial aid, or other benefit provided under the program; or
(vi) Deny a person an opportunity to participate in the program through the provision of services or otherwise or afford him an opportunity to do so which is different from that afforded others under the program.
(2) A recipient, in determining the types of services, financial aid, or other benefits, or facilities which will be provided under a program or the class of persons to whom, or the situations in which, the services, financial aid, other benefits, or facilities will be provided under a program, or the class of persons to be afforded an opportunity to participate in a program, may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration which have the effect of subjecting persons to discrimination because of their race, color, or national origin, or have the effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the program with respect to individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin.
(3) As used in this section, the services, financial aid, or other benefits provided under a program receiving Federal financial assistance include a service, financial aid, or other benefit provided in or through a facility provided with the aid of Federal financial assistance.
(4) The enumeration of specific forms of prohibited discrimination in this paragraph does not limit the generality of the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section.
(5) Examples demonstrating the application of the provisions of this section to certain programs receiving Federal financial assistance from OPM are contained in appendix C of this subpart.
(6) (i) In administering a program regarding which the recipient had previously discriminated against persons on the ground of race, color, or national origin, the recipient shall take affirmative action to overcome the effects of prior discrimination.
(ii) Even in the absence of prior discrimination a recipient in administering a program shall take affirmative action as required by OPM to overcome the effect of conditions which resulted in limiting participation by persons of a particular race, color, or national origin.
(iii) Any affirmative action under this paragraph shall be consistent with the principles stated in the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, 84 Stat. 1909.
(c)
Employment practices.
(1) When a primary objective of a program of Federal financial assistance to which this subpart applies is to provide employment, a recipient or other party subject to this subpart shall not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, subject a person to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in its employment practices under the program (including recruitment or recruitment advertising, hiring, firing, upgrading, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation or benefits, selection for training or apprenticeship, use of facilities, and treatment of employees). A recipient shall take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to race, color, or national origin. The requirements applicable to construction employment under a program are those specified in or pursuant to Part III of Executive Order 11246 or any Executive order which supersedes it.
(2) Federal financial assistance to programs under laws funded or administered by OPM which have as a primary objective the providing of employment include those set forth in appendix B to this subpart.
(3) In regard to Federal financial assistance which does not have providing employment as a primary objective, the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section apply to the employment practices of the recipient if discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in the employment practices tends, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, to exclude persons from participation in, to deny them the benefits of, or to subject them to discrimination under, the program receiving Federal financial assistance. The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section apply to the extent necessary to assure equality of opportunity to and nondiscriminatory treatment of beneficiaries.
(d) In determining the site or location of facilities, a recipient or applicant may not make selections with the purpose or effect of excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under, a program to which this subpart applies, on the ground of race, color, or national origin; or with the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing the accomplishments of the objectives of title VI or this subpart.
§ 900.405
Assurances required.
(a)
General.
(1) An application for Federal financial assistance to carry out a program to which this subpart applies, except a program to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, and every application for Federal financial assistance to provide a facility shall, as a condition to its approval and the extension of Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, contain or be accompanied by, assurances that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with the requirements imposed by or pursuant to this subpart. Every program of Federal financial assistance shall require the submission of these assurances. In the case where the Federal financial assistance is to provide or is in the form of personal property, or real property or interest therein or structures thereon, the assurances shall obligate the recipient, or, in the
case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. In other cases, the assurances obligate the recipient for the period during which the Federal financial assistance is extended to the program. In the case where the assistance is sought for the construction of a facility or part of a facility, the assurances shall extend to the entire facility and to the facilities operated in connection therewith. OPM shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances for each program, and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants in the program. The assurances shall include provisions which give the United States the right to seek judicial enforcement.
(2) When Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of a transfer of real property, structures, or improvements thereon, or interest therein, from the Federal Government, the instrument effecting or recording the transfer shall contain a covenant running with the land assuring nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. When no transfer of property or interest therein from the Federal Government is involved, but property is acquired or improved under a program of Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include a covenant in any subsequent transfer of the property. When the property is obtained from the Federal Government, the covenant may also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by OPM to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant where, in the discretion of OPM, such a condition and right of reverter is appropriate to the program under which the real property is obtained and to the nature of the grant and the grantee. In the event a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, OPM may agree, on request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish the financing, and on conditions as he deems appropriate, to subordinate a right of reversion to the lien of a mortgage or other encumbrance.
(b)
Assurances from government agencies.
In the case of an application from a department, agency, or office of a State or local government for Federal financial assistance for a specified purpose, the assurance required by this section shall extend to any other department, agency, or office of the same governmental unit if the policies of the other department, agency, or office will substantially affect the project for which Federal financial assistance is requested. That requirement may be waived by the responsible OPM official if the applicant establishes, to the satisfaction of the responsible OPM official, that the practices in other agencies or parts or programs of the governmental unit will in no way affect (1) its practices in the program for which Federal financial assistance is sought, or (2) the beneficiaries of or participants in or persons affected by the program, or (3) full compliance with this subpart as respects the program.
(c)
Assurance from academic and other institutions.
(1) In the case of an application for Federal financial assistance by an academic institution, the assurance required by this section extends to admission practices and to all other practices relating to the treatment of students.
(2) The assurance required by an academic institution, detention or correctional facility, or any other institution or facility, relating to the institution's practices with respect to admission or other treatment of individuals as students, patients, wards, inmates, persons subject to control, or clients of the institution or facility or to the opportunity to participate in the provision of services, disposition, treatment,
or benefits to these individuals, is applicable to the entire institution or facility unless the applicant establishes, to the satisfaction of the responsible OPM official, that the practices in designated parts or programs of the institution or facility will in no way affect its practices in the program of the institution or facility for which Federal financial assistance is sought, or the beneficiaries of or participants in the program. If the assistance sought is for the construction of a facility or part of a facility, the assurance shall extend to the entire facility and to facilities operated in connection therewith.
(d)
Continuing State programs.
Every application by a State or a State agency to carry out a program involving continuing Federal financial assistance to which this subpart applies (including the programs listed in appendix A to this subpart) shall as a condition to its approval and the extension of Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application (1) contain or be accompanied by a statement that the program is (or, in the case of a new program, will be) conducted in compliance with the requirements imposed by or pursuant to this subpart, and (2) provide or be accompanied by provision for methods of administration for the program as are found by OPM to give reasonable guarantee that the applicant and all recipients of Federal financial assistance under the program will comply with the requirements imposed by or pursuant to this subpart.
§ 900.406
Compliance information.
(a)
Cooperation and assistance.
OPM, to the fullest extent practicable, shall seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with this subpart and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with this subpart.
(b)
Compliance reports.
Each recipient shall keep records and submit to OPM timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at the times, and in the form and containing the information OPM may determine necessary to enable it to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with this subpart. In the case of a program under which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to other recipients, the other recipients shall also submit compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under this subpart.
(c)
Access to sources of information.
Each recipient shall permit access by OPM during normal business hours to its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with this subpart. When information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of another agency, institution, or person and this agency, institution, or person fails or refuses to furnish this information, the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information.
(d)
Information to beneficiaries and participants.
Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons the information regarding the provisions of this subpart and its applicability to the program under which the recipient received Federal financial assistance, and make this information available to them in the manner, as OPM finds necessary, to apprise the persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by title VI and this subpart.
§ 900.407
Conduct of investigations.
(a)
Periodic compliance reviews.
OPM may from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with this subpart.
(b)
Complaints.
Any person who believes himself or any specific class of persons to be subjected to discrimination prohibited by this subpart may by himself or by a representative file with the Director, Office of Personnel Management a written complaint. A complaint shall be filed not later than 90 days after the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by OPM.
(c)
Investigations.
OPM will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or other information indicates a possible failure to comply with this subpart. The investigation will include, when
appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this subpart occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with this subpart.
(d)
Resolution of matters.
(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with this subpart, OPM will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by voluntary means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by voluntary means, action will be taken as provided for in § 900.408.
(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, OPM will so inform, in writing, the recipient and the complainant, if any.
(e)
Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.
A recipient or other person shall not intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against an individual for the purpose of interfering with a right or privilege secured by section 601 of title VI or this subpart, or because he has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subpart. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential; except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this subpart, including the conduct of an investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising thereunder.
§ 900.408
Procedure for effecting compliance.
(a)
General.
(1) If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this subpart, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this subpart may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or by other means authorized by law.
(2) Other means may include, but are not limited to, (i) a reference to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce the rights of the United States under a law of the United States (including other titles of the Civil Rights Act of 1964), or an assurance or other contractual undertaking, and (ii) an applicable proceeding under State or local law.
(b)
Noncompliance with § 900.405.
If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance required under § 900.405 or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section, Federal financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. OPM shall not be required to provide assistance in that case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under this paragraph. Subject, however, to § 900.412, OPM shall continue assistance during the pendency of the proceedings where the assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application approved prior to the effective date of this subpart.
(c)
Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance.
An order suspending, terminating, or refusing to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall not become effective until—
(1) OPM has advised the applicant or recipient of his failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by informal voluntary means;
(2) There has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this subpart;
(3) The action has been approved by the Office of Personnel Management pursuant to § 900.410(e); and
(4) The expiration of 30 days after the Director, Office of Personnel Management has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for the action.
An action to suspend or terminate or refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in
which the noncompliance has been so found.
(d)
Other means authorized by law.
An action to effect compliance with title VI by other means authorized by law shall not be taken by OPM until—
(1) OPM has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(2) The recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and
(3) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of a notice to the recipient or person. During this period of at least 10 days, additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient or other person to comply with the regulation and to take corrective action as may be appropriate.
§ 900.409
Hearings.
(a)
Opportunity for hearing.
When an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 900.408(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either (1) fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of OPM that the matter be scheduled for hearing or (2) advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated time and place. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set is deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 602 of title VI and § 900.408(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of the information as is available.
(b)
Time and place of hearing.
Hearings shall be held at the offices of OPM in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by OPM unless it determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of OPM requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before the Director of Office of Personnel Management, or at his/her discretion, before a hearing examiner appointed in accordance with section 3105 of title 5, United States Code, or detailed under section 3344 of title 5, United States Code.
(c)
Right to counsel.
In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and OPM have the right to be represented by counsel.
(d)
Procedures, evidence, and record.
(1) The hearing, decision, and an administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with sections 554 through 557 of title 5, United States Code, and in accordance with the rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both OPM and the applicant or recipient are entitled to introduce relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the officer conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing.
(2) Technical rules of evidence do not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this subpart, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where determined reasonably necessary by the officer conducting the hearing. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. Documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. Decisions shall be based on the hearing
record and written findings shall be made.
(e)
Consolidated or joint hearings.
In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with this subpart with respect to two or more programs to which this subpart applies, or noncompliance with this subpart and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under title VI, OPM may, by agreement with the other departments or agencies, when applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to these hearings of rules or procedures not inconsistent with this subpart. Final decisions in these cases, insofar as this regulation is concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 900.410.
§ 900.410
Decisions and notices.
(a)
Procedure on decisions by hearing examiner.
If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the Director of Office of Personnel Management, for a final decision, and a copy of the initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. When the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner, the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days after the mailing of a notice of initial decision, file with the Director of Office of Personnel Management his exceptions to the initial decision, with his reasons therefore. In the absence of exceptions, the Director, Office of Personnel Management may, on his/her own motion, within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that he/she will review the decision. On the filing of the exceptions or of notice of review, the Director, Office of Personnel Management shall review the initial decision and issue his/her own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision, subject to paragraph (e) of this section, shall constitute the final decision of OPM.
(b)
Decisions on record or review by the Office of Personnel Management.
When a record is certified to the Office of Personnel Management for decision or the Office of Personnel Management reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or when the Office of Personnel Management conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with it briefs or other written statements of the recipient's contentions, and a written copy of the final decision of the Office of Personnel Management will be sent to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
(c)
Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.
When a hearing is waived pursuant to § 900.409, a decision shall be made by the Office of Personnel Management on the record and a written copy of the decision shall be sent to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
(d)
Rulings required.
Each decision of a hearing examiner or the Office of Personnel Management shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this subpart with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
(e)
Approval by OPM.
A final decision by an official of OPM other than by the Director, which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this subpart or title VI, shall promptly be transmitted to the Director, Office of Personnel Management, who may approve the decision, vacate it, or remit or mitigate a sanction imposed.
(f)
Content of orders.
The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, under the program involved, and may contain the terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of title VI and this subpart, including provisions designed to assure that Federal financial assistance will not thereafter be extended under the programs to the applicant or recipient
determined by the decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it under this subpart, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this subpart, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies OPM that it will fully comply with this subpart.
(g)
Post termination proceedings.
(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of the order for eligibility, or if it brings itself into compliance with this subpart and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this subpart.
(2) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the Director, Office of Personnel Management to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. A request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the Director, Office of Personnel Management determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he/she shall restore the eligibility.
(3) If OPM denies a request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for hearing in writing, specifying why it believes OPM is in error. The applicant or recipient shall be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with the rules or procedures issued by OPM. The applicant or recipient shall be restored to eligibility if it proves at the hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section remain in effect.
§ 900.411
Judicial review.
Action taken pursuant to section 602 of title VI is subject to judicial review as provided in section 603 of title VI.
§ 900.412
Effect on other regulations, forms, and instructions.
(a)
Effect on other regulations.
Regulations, orders, or like directions issued before the effective date of this subpart by OPM which impose requirements designed to prohibit discrimination against individuals on the ground of race, color, or national origin under a program to which this subpart applies, and which authorizes the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance to an applicant for or recipient of assistance under a program for failure to comply with the requirements, are superseded to the extent that discrimination is prohibited by this subpart, except that nothing in this subpart relieves a person of an obligation assumed or imposed under a superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction, before the effective date of this subpart. This subpart does not supersede any of the following (including future amendments thereof): (1) Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR, 1965 Supp.) and regulations issued thereunder or (2) any other orders, regulations, or instructions, insofar as these orders, regulations, or instructions prohibit discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in a program or situation to which this subpart is inapplicable, or prohibit discrimination on any other ground.
(b)
Forms and instructions.
OPM shall issue and promptly make available to all interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this subpart as applied to programs to which this subpart applies, and for which it is responsible.
(c)
Supervision and coordination.
The Director, Office of Personnel Management may from time to time assign to officials of OPM, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of the departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of title VI and this subpart (other than responsibilities for final decision as provided in § 900.410), including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within OPM and within the executive branch in the application of title VI and this subpart to similar programs
and in similar situations. An action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this paragraph shall have the same effect as though the action had been taken by OPM.
Pt. 900, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 900—Activities to Which This Subpart Applies
1. Personnel mobility assignments of OPM personnel pursuant to title 5, U.S.C. chapter 33 and 5 CFR part 334 (36 FR 6488).
[38 FR 17920, July 5, 1973, as amended at 48 FR 6311, Feb. 11, 1983]
Pt. 900, Subpt. D, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 900—Activities to Which This Subpart Applies When a Primary Objective of the Federal Assistance Is To Provide Employment
1. None at this time.
Pt. 900, Subpt. D, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 900—Application of Subpart D, Part 900, to Programs Receiving Federal Financial Assistance of the Office of Personnel Management
Nondiscrimination in Federally assisted programs or projects:
Examples.
The following examples without being exhaustive illustrate the application of the nondiscrimination provisions of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 of this subpart in programs receiving financial assistance under programs of the Office of Personnel Management.
(1) Recipients of IPA financial assistance for training programs or fellowships may not differentiate between employees who are eligible for training or fellowships on the ground of race, color, or national origin.
(2) Recipients of IPA financial assistance for training programs may not provide facilities for training with the purpose or effect of separating employees on the ground of race, color, or national origin.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 4728, 4763; E.O. 11589, 3 CFR part 557 (1971-75 Compilation); 5 U.S.C. 2301, 2302, E.O. 11478, 3 CFR 1966-1970 Comp., page 803, unless otherwise noted, E.O. 13087; and E.O. 13152.

# Source:
48 FR 9210, Mar. 4, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 900.601
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of these regulations is to implement provisions of title II of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, as amended, relating to Federally required merit personnel systems in State and local agencies, in a manner that recognizes fully the rights, powers, and responsibilities of State and local governments and encourages innovation and allows for diversity among State and local governments in the design, execution, and management of their systems of personnel administration, as provided by that Act.
(b) Certain Federal grant programs require, as a condition of eligibility, that State and local agencies that receive grants establish merit personnel systems for their personnel engaged in administration of the grant-aided program. These merit personnel systems are in some cases required by specific Federal grant statutes and in other cases are required by regulations of the Federal grantor agencies. Title II of the Act gives the U.S. Office of Personnel Management authority to prescribe standards for these Federally required merit personnel systems.
§ 900.602
Applicability.
(a) Sections 900.603-604 apply to those State and local governments that are required to operate merit personnel systems as a condition of eligibility for Federal assistance or participation in an intergovernmental program. Merit personnel systems are required for State and local personnel engaged in the administration of assistance and other intergovernmental programs, irrespective of the source of funds for their salaries, where Federal laws or regulations require the establishment and maintenance of such systems. A reasonable number of positions, however, may be exempted from merit personnel system coverage.
(b) Section 900.605 applies to Federal agencies that operate Federal assistance or intergovernmental programs.
§ 900.603
Standards for a merit system of personnel administration.
The quality of public service can be improved by the development of systems of personnel administration consistent with such merit principles as—
(a) Recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees on the basis of their relative ability, knowledge, and skills, including open consideration of qualified applicants for initial appointment.
(b) Providing equitable and adequate compensation.
(c) Training employees, as needed, to assure high quality performance.
(d) Retaining employees on the basis of the adequacy of their performance, correcting inadequate performance, and separating employees whose inadequate performance cannot be corrected.
(e) Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, age (as defined by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended), disability, genetic information (including family medical history), marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, status as parent, labor organization affiliation or nonaffiliation in accordance with chapter 71 of title V, or any other non-merit-based factor, or retaliation for exercising rights with respect to the categories enumerated above, where retaliation rights are available, and with proper regard for their privacy and constitutional rights as citizens. This “fair treatment” principle includes compliance with the Federal equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws.
(f) Assuring that employees are protected against coercion for partisan political purposes and are prohibited from using their official authority for the purpose of interfering with or affecting the result of an election or a nomination for office.
[48 FR 9210, Mar. 4, 1983, as amended at 79 FR 43923, July 29, 2014]
§ 900.604
Compliance.
(a)
Certification by Chief Executives.
(1) Certification of agreement by a chief executive of a State or local jurisdiction to maintain a system of personnel administration in conformance with these Standards satisfies any applicable Federal merit personnel requirements of the Federal assistance or other programs to which personnel standards on a merit basis are applicable.
(2) Chief executives will maintain these certifications and make them available to the Office of Personnel Management.
(3) In the absence of certification by the chief executive, compliance with the Standards may be certified by the heads of those State and local agencies that are required to have merit personnel systems as a condition of Federal assistance or other intergovernmental programs.
(b)
Resolution of Compliance Issues.
(1) Chief executives of State and local jurisdictions operating covered programs are responsible for supervising compliance by personnel systems in their jurisdictions with the Standards. They shall resolve all questions regarding compliance by personnel systems in their jurisdictions with the Standards. Findings and supporting documentation with regard to specific compliance issues shall be maintained by the chief executive, or a personal designee, and shall be forwarded, on request, to the Office of Personnel Management.
(2) The merit principles apply to systems of personnel administration. The Intergovernmental Personnel Act does not authorize OPM to exercise any authority, direction or control over the selection, assignment, advancement, retention, compensation, or other personnel action with respect to any individual State or local employee.
(3) When a chief executive requests the assistance of the Office of Personnel Management, the Office will provide consultation and technical advice to aid the State or local government in complying with the Standards.
(4) The Office of Personnel Management will advise Federal agencies on
application of the Standards in resolving compliance issues and will recommend actions to carry out the purposes of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act. Questions regarding interpretation of the Standards will be referred to the Office of Personnel Management.
[48 FR 9210, Mar. 4, 1983; 48 FR 10801, Mar. 15, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 33971, June 24, 1997; 62 FR 53223, Oct. 14, 1997]
§ 900.605
Establishing a merit requirement.
Federal agencies may adopt regulations that require the establishment of a merit personnel system as a condition for receiving Federal assistance or otherwise participating in an intergovernmental program only with the prior approval of the Office of Personnel Management. All existing regulations will be submitted to the Office of Personnel Management for review.
Pt. 900, Subpt. F, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 900—Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration
Part I: The following programs have a statutory requirement for the establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on a merit basis.

# Program, Legislation, and Statutory Reference
Food Stamp, Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(6)(B).
Employment Security (Unemployment Insurance and Employment Services), Social Security Act (Title III), as amended by the Social Security Act Amendments of 1939, Section 301, on August 10, 1939, and the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by Pub. L. 81-775, section 2, on September 8, 1950; 42 U.S.C. 503(a)(1) and 29 U.S.C. 49d(b).
Grants to States for Old-Age Assistance for the Aged (Title I of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 302(a)(5)(A).
1
1
Public Law 92-603 repealed Titles I, X, XIV and XVI of the Social Security Act effective January 1, 1974, except that “such repeal does not apply to Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.”
Aid to Families with Dependent Children, (Title IV-A of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 602(a)(5).
2
2
Public Law 104-193 repealed the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program effective July 1, 1997.
Grants to States for Aid to the Blind, (Title X of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1202(a)(5)(A).
1
Grants to States for Aid to the Permanently and Totally Disabled, (Title XIV of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1352(a)(5)(A).
1
Grants to States for Aid to the Aged, Blind or Disabled. (Title XVI of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 1382(a)(5)(A).
1
Medical Assistance (Medicaid), Social Security Act (Title XIX), as amended, section 1902 (a)(4)(A); 42 U.S.C. 1396(a)(4)(A).
State and Community Programs on Aging (Older Americans), Older Americans Act of 1965 (Title III), as amended by the Comprehensive Older Americans Act Amendments of 1976, section 307 on October 18, 1978; 42 U.S.C. 3027(a)(4).
Federal Payments for Foster Care and Adoption Assistance, (Title IV-E of the Social Security Act); 42 U.S.C. 671(a)(5).
Part II: The following programs have a regulatory requirement for the establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on a merit basis.

# Program, Legislation, and Regulatory Reference
Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; Occupational Safety and Health State Plans for the Development and Enforcement of State Standards; Department of Labor, 29 CFR 1902.3(h).
Occupational Safety and Health Statistics, Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; BLS Grant Application Kit, May 1, 1973, Supplemental Assurance No. 15A.
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Assistance and Emergency Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5196b), as amended; 44 CFR 302.4.
[62 FR 33971, June 24, 1997]

# Subpart G—Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Federally Assisted Programs of the Office of Personnel Management

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
45 FR 75569, Nov. 14, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 900.701
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, to eliminate discrimination on the basis of handicap in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
§ 900.702
Applicability.
This subpart applies to each activity, program or project receiving Federal financial assistance from the Office of Personnel Management from the date this subpart is approved. The duration of the applicability is the period of time for which the assistance is authorized.
§ 900.703
Definitions.
Unless the content requires otherwise, in this subpart:
(a)
Recipient
means any State or its political subdivisions, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivisions, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.
(b)
Federal financial assistance
means any grant, loan, contract, (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the agency provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:
(1) Funds;
(2) Services of Federal personnel; or
(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:
(i) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and
(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.
(c)
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property.
(d)
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
(1) As used in paragraph (d) of this section, the phrase:
physical or mental impairment
means:
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.
The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means:
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by a recipient as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (d) of this section but is treated by a recipient as having such an impairment.
(e) Qualified handicapped person means:
(1) With respect to employment, a handicapped person who with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job in question.
(2) With respect to other services, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of such services.
(f) Ultimate beneficiary means one among a class of persons who are entitled to benefit from or otherwise participate in, programs receiving Federal financial assistance and to whom the protections of this subpart apply.
§ 900.704
Discrimination prohibited.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity which receives or benefits from Federal financial assistance from the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) (1) A recipient, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap:
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against a qualified handicapped person by providing significant assistance to an agency, organization or person that discriminates on the basis of handicap in providing any aid, benefit, or service to beneficiaries of the recipient's program;
(vi) Deny a qualified person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vii) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving aid, benefit, or service.
(2) A recipient may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) A recipient may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration:
(i) That have the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap,
(ii) That have the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the recipient's program with respect to handicapped persons, or
(iii) That perpetuate the discrimination of another recipient if both recipients are subject to common administrative control or are agencies of the same State.
(4) A recipient may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections:
(i) That have the effect of excluding handicapped persons from, denying them the benefits of, or otherwise subjecting them to discrimination under any program or activity that receives or benefits from Federal financial assistance, or
(ii) That have the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing the accomplishment of the objectives of the program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) Recipients shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
(e) Recipients shall take appropriate steps to ensure that communications with their applicants, employees and beneficiaries are available to persons with impaired vision and hearing.
§ 900.705
Program accessibility.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, because a recipient's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity to which this subpart applies.
(b) A recipient shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of an existing facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. Where structural changes are necessary to make programs or activities in existing facilities accessible, such changes shall be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than three years after the effective date of the regulation.
(c) A recipient may comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, alteration of facilities or any other methods that result in making its program or activity accessible to handicapped persons. A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section.
(d) New facilities shall be designed and constructed to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. Alterations to existing facilities shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be designed and constructed to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(e) In the event that structural changes to facilities are necessary to meet the requirements of this section, a recipient shall develop within 12 months of the effective date of this subpart a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons.
(f)(1) Effective as of August 23, 1990. Design, construction, or alteration of buildings in conformance with sections 3-8 of the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) (appendix A to 41 CFR subpart 101-19.6) shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to those buildings. Departures from particular technical and scoping requirements of UFAS by the use of other methods are permitted where substantially equivalent or greater access to and usability of the building is provided.
(2) For purposes of this section, section 4.1.6(1)(g) of UFAS shall be interpreted to exempt from the requirements of UFAS only mechanical rooms and other spaces that, because of their intended use, will not require accessibility to the public or beneficiaries or result in the employment or residence therein of persons with physical handicaps.
(3) This section does not require recipients to make building alterations that have little likelihood of being accomplished without removing or altering a load-bearing structural member.
[45 FR 75569, Nov. 14, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 29999, July 28, 1990]
§ 900.706
Employment practices.
(a)
General.
(1) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under a program or activity that receives or benefits from Federal financial assistance from OPM.
(2) A recipient shall make all decisions concerning employment under any program or activity to which this subpart applies in a manner which ensures that discrimination on the basis of handicap does not occur and may
not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that adversely affects their opportunities or status because of handicap.
(3) The prohibition against discrimination in employment applies to the following activities:
(i) Recruitment, advertising, and the processing of applications for employment;
(ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff, and rehiring;
(iii) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation;
(iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave;
(vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient;
(vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training;
(viii) Employer sponsored activities, including social or recreational programs; and
(ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.
(4) A recipient may not participate in a contractual or other relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this subpart. The relationships referred to in this paragraph include relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and with organizations providing training and apprenticeship programs.
(b)
Reasonable accommodation.
(1) A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant or employee under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from OPM unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its program.
(2) Reasonable accommodation may include, but shall not be limited to, making facilities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, appropriate adjustment or modification of examinations, the provision of readers and interpreters, job restructuring and providing part-time or modified work schedules and other similar actions.
(3) In determining pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the recipient in question, factors to be considered by OPM include:
(i) The overall size of the recipient's program with respect to the number of employees, number and type of facilities and size of budget;
(ii) The type of operation, including the composition and structure of the work force; and
(iii) The nature and the cost of the accommodation.
(c)
Employment criteria.
(1) A recipient involved in activities receiving Federal financial assistance may not make use of any employment test or other selection criterion that screens out or tends to screen out handicapped persons or any class of handicapped persons in any program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance unless the test score or other selection criterion, as used by the recipient, is shown to be job-related for the position in question and alternative job-related tests or criteria that do not screen out as many handicapped persons are not shown by the Office of Personnel Management's Personnel Research and Development Center to be available.
(2) A recipient shall select and administer tests concerning employment so as to ensure that, when administered under any program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance from OPM, to an applicant or employee who has a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the applicant's or employee's ability to perform the duties of the type of position in question rather than reflecting
the applicant's or employee's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where those skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).
(d)
Preemployment inquiries.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a recipient, when considering an applicant for employment under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from OPM, may not conduct a preemployment medical examination and may not make preemployment inquiry of an applicant as to whether the applicant is a handicapped person or as to the nature or severity of a handicap. A recipient may, however, make preemployment inquiry into an applicant's ability to perform job-related functions.
(2) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an organization from conditioning an offer of employment under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from OPM on the results of a medical examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty:
Provided,
That (i) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination regardless of handicap or when a preemployment medical questionnaire used for positions which do not routinely require medical examination indicates a condition for which further examination is required because of the job-related nature of the condition; and
(ii) The results of such an examination are used in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 900.707
Certification required.
(a)
General.
Each application to OPM for financial assistance, as a condition to its approval and the extension of financial assistance, shall contain or be accompanied by, a certification from the applicant in a form prescribed by OPM that the program will be conducted in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which the financial assistance is extended to the program.
(b)
Certification from subgrantees.
A certification shall be required of all subgrantees receiving financial assistance from OPM to the effect that all programs or parts thereof carried out by subgrantees shall be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The recipient shall be responsible for securing the certification from subgrantees.
§ 900.708
Self-evaluation.
(a) Each recipient shall, within one year of the receipt of financial assistance, conduct or have conducted an evaluation of its compliance with this subpart with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. Each such recipient shall evaluate its current policies and practices and their effects, and modify any that do not meet the requirements of this part. Each such recipient shall permit the Office of Personnel Management, during normal business hours, to examine its self-evaluation along with its books, records, accounts, facilities and other sources of information as may be useful to determine whether there has been compliance with this subpart. Self-evaluation required under other Federal programs may be accepted by OPM if the information pertaining to activities receiving financial assistance from OPM is included and the records are available to OPM representatives.
(b) Each recipient shall modify, after consultation with interested persons and organizations, including handicapped persons, any policies and practices that do not meet the requirements of this subpart; and
(c) Each recipient shall take, after consultation with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
§ 900.709
Notice and consultation.
(a) Programs and activities receiving OPM financial support shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of Section 504 and this subpart.
(b) As appropriate, a recipient shall consult with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, in achieving compliance with this subpart.
§ 900.710
Procedure for effecting compliance.
When the Office of Personnel Management determines that a recipient has failed or threatens to fail to comply with this subpart and the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, OPM may suspend or terminate or refuse to grant or continue financial assistance as provided in § 900.408 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Pt. 911

# PART 911—PROCEDURES FOR STATES AND LOCALITIES TO REQUEST INDEMNIFICATION
Sec.
911.101
Scope and purpose.
911.102
General definitions.
911.103
Eligibility for indemnification.
911.104
Procedures for requesting an indemnification agreement.
911.105
Terms of indemnification.

# Authority:
Title VIII, Access to Criminal History Records for National Security Purposes, of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1986, Pub. L. 99-169, sections 801-803, 99 Stat. 1002, 1008-1011 (1985) (codified in part at 5 U.S.C. 9101).

# Source:
52 FR 4491, Feb. 12, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 911.101
Scope and purpose.
(a) The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has the right to criminal history record information of State and local criminal justice agencies to determine whether a person may—
(1) Be eligible for access to classified information;
(2) Be assigned to sensitive national security duties; or
(3) Continue to be assigned to sensitive national security duties.
(b) This part sets out the conditions under which OPM may sign an agreement to indemnify and hold harmless a State or locality against claims for damages, costs, and other monetary loss caused by disclosure or use of criminal history record information by OPM.
(c) The procedures set forth in this part do not apply to situations when OPM seeks access to the criminal history records of another Federal agency.
(d) By law these provisions implementing 5 U.S.C. 9101(b)(3) will expire December 4, 1988, unless the duration of this section is extended or limited by Congress.
§ 911.102
General definitions.
In this part—
Criminal history record information
means information collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests, indictments, informations, or other formal criminal charges, and any disposition arising therefrom, sentencing, correction supervision, and release. The term does not include identification information such as fingerprint records to the extent that such information does not indicate involvement of the individual in the criminal justice system. The term does not include those records of a State or locality sealed pursuant to law from access by State and local criminal justice agencies of that State or locality.
Criminal justice agency
includes Federal, State, and local agencies and means (a) courts; or (b) a Government agency or any subunit thereof which performs the administration of criminal justice pursuant to a statute or Executive order, and which allocates a substantial part of its annual budget to the administration of criminal justice.
Locality
means any local government authority or agency or component thereof within a State having jurisdiction over matters at a county, municipal, or other local government level.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
§ 911.103
Eligibility for indemnification.
As provided for under 5 U.S.C. 9101(b)(3), a State or locality may request an indemnification agreement.
(a) To be eligible for an indemnification agreement, a State or locality must have had a law in effect on December 4, 1985, that prohibited or had the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to OPM.
(b) A State or locality is also eligible for an indemnification agreement if it meets the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section, but nevertheless provided criminal history record information to OPM on or before December 4, 1985.
§ 911.104
Procedures for requesting an indemnification agreement.
When requesting an indemnification agreement, the State or locality must—
(a) Certify that on December 4, 1985, the State or locality had in effect a law that prohibited or had the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to OPM;
(b) Attach a copy of the law to the request for an indemnification agreement;
(c) Notify OPM, at the address below, of its eligibility for an indemnification agreement.
Office of Personnel Management, Office of Federal Investigations, P.O. Box 886, Washington, DC 20044
§ 911.105
Terms of indemnification.
The terms of the indemnification agreement must conform to the following provisions:
(a)
Eligibility.
The State or locality must certify that its law prohibits or has the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to OPM for the purposes described in § 911.101(a) and that such law was in effect on December 4, 1985.
(b)
Liability.
(1) OPM must agree to indemnify and hold harmless the State or locality from any claim for damages, costs, and other monetary loss arising from the disclosure or negligent use by OPM of criminal history record information obtained from that State or locality pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 9101(b). The indemnification will include the officers, employees, and agents of the State or locality.
(2) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any act or omission prior to the transmittal of the criminal history record information to OPM.
(3) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any negligent acts on the part of the State or locality in compiling, transcribing, or failing to delete or purge any of the information transmitted.
(c)
Consent and access requirements.
By requesting the release of criminal history record information from the State or locality, OPM represents that—
(1) It has obtained the written consent of the individual under investigation to request criminal history record information about the individual from criminal justice agencies in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 9101, after advising the individual of the purposes for which the information is intended to be used by a Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or an equivalent, notice; and
(2) Upon request, OPM will provide the individual access to criminal history record information received from the State or locality, as required by 5 U.S.C. 9101(d).
(d)
Purpose requirements.
OPM will use the criminal history record information only for the purposes stated in § 911.101(a).
(e)
Notice, litigation, and settlement procedures.
(1) The State or locality must give notice of any claim against it on or before the 10th day after the day on which a claim against it is received, or it has notice of such a claim.
(2) The notice must be given to the Attorney General and to the United States Attorney of the district embracing the place wherein the claim is made.
(3) The Attorney General will make all determinations regarding the settlement or defense of such claims.
Pt. 919

# PART 919—GOVERNMENTWIDE DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT)
Sec.
919.25
How is this part organized?
919.50
How is this part written?
919.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?

# Subpart A—General
919.100
What does this part do?
919.105
Does this part apply to me?
919.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
919.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
919.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
919.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
919.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
919.135
May the OPM exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
919.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
919.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
919.200
What is a covered transaction?
919.205
Why is it important to know if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
919.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
919.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
919.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
919.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
919.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
919.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
919.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
919.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
919.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
919.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
919.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
919.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the OPM?
919.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 919.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
919.345
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 919.335?
919.350
What must I do if I learn of the information required under § 919.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the OPM?

# Disclosing information—Lower Tier Participants
919.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
919.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 919.355?
919.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 919.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of OPM Officials Regarding Transactions
919.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
919.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
919.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
919.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
919.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
919.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
919.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
919.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
919.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
919.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
919.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 919.335?
919.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 919.355 to the next higher tier?

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
919.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
919.505
Who uses the EPLS?
919.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
919.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
919.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
919.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
919.530
Where can I find the EPLS?

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
919.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
919.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
919.610
What procedures does the OPM use in suspension and debarment actions?
919.615
How does the OPM notify a person of a suspension and debarment action?
919.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
919.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment action?
919.630
May the OPM impute the conduct of one person to another?
919.635
May the OPM settle a debarment or suspension action?
919.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
919.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the OPM agrees to a voluntary exclusion?

# Subpart G—Suspension
919.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
919.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
919.710
When does a suspension take effect?
919.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
919.720
How may I contest a suspension?
919.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
919.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
919.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
919.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
919.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
919.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
919.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
919.760
How long may my suspension last?

# Subpart H—Debarment
919.800
What are the causes for debarment?
919.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
919.810
When does a debarment take effect?
919.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
919.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
919.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
919.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?
919.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
919.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
919.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
919.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
919.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
919.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
919.865
How long may my debarment last?
919.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
919.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
919.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
919.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
919.900
Adequate evidence.
919.905
Affiliate.
919.910
Agency.
919.915
Agent or representative.
919.920
Civil judgment.
919.925
Conviction.
919.930
Debarment.
919.935
Debarring official.
919.940
Disqualified.
919.945
Excluded or exclusion.
919.950
Excluded Parties List System.
919.955
Indictment.
919.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
919.965
Legal proceedings.
919.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
919.975
Notice.
919.980
Participant.
919.985
Person.
919.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
919.995
Principal.
919.1000
Respondent.
919.1005
State.
919.1010
Suspending official.
919.1015
Suspension.
919.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Appendix to Part 919—Covered Transactions

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p.189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p.235.

# Source:
68 FR 66544, 66561, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 68 FR 74161, Dec. 23, 2003.
§ 919.25
How is this part organized?
(a) This part is subdivided into ten subparts. Each subpart contains information related to a broad topic or specific audience with special responsibilities, as shown in the following table:
In subpart . . .
You will find provisions related to . . .
A
general information about this rule.
B
the types of OPM transactions that are covered by the Governmentwide nonprocurement suspension and debarment system.
C
the responsibilities of persons who participate in covered transactions.
D
the responsibilities of OPM officials who are authorized to enter into covered transactions.
E
the responsibilities of Federal agencies for the
Excluded Parties List System
(Disseminated by the General Services Administration).
F
the general principles governing suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion and settlement.
G
suspension actions.
H
debarment actions.
I
definitions of terms used in this part.
J
[Reserved]
(b) The following table shows which subparts may be of special interest to you, depending on who you are:
If you are . . .
See subpart(s) . . .
(1) a participant or principal in a nonprocurement transaction
A, B, C, and I.
(2) a respondent in a suspension action
A, B, F, G and I.
(3) a respondent in a debarment action
A, B, F, H and I.
(4) a suspending official
A, B, D, E, F, G and I.
(5) a debarring official
A, B, D, E, F, H and I.
(6) a(n) OPM official authorized to enter into a covered transaction
A, B, D, E and I.
(7) Reserved
J.
§ 919.50
How is this part written?
(a) This part uses a “plain language” format to make it easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Pronouns used within this part, such as “I” and “you,” change from subpart to subpart depending on the audience being addressed. The pronoun “we” always is the OPM.
(c) The “Covered Transactions” diagram in the appendix to this part shows the levels or “tiers” at which the OPM enforces an exclusion under this part.
§ 919.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?
This part uses terms throughout the text that have special meaning. Those terms are defined in Subpart I of this part. For example, three important terms are—
(a)
Exclusion or excluded,
which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
(b)
Disqualification or disqualified,
which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
(c)
Ineligibility or ineligible,
which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.

# Subpart A—General
§ 919.100
What does this part do?
This part adopts a governmentwide system of debarment and suspension for OPM nonprocurement activities. It also provides for reciprocal exclusion of persons who have been excluded under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and provides for the consolidated listing of all persons who are excluded, or disqualified by statute, executive order, or other legal authority. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689,
“Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 919.105
Does this part apply to me?
Portions of this part (see table at § 919.25(b)) apply to you if you are a(n)—
(a) Person who has been, is, or may reasonably be expected to be, a participant or principal in a covered transaction;
(b) Respondent (a person against whom the OPM has initiated a debarment or suspension action);
(c) OPM debarring or suspending official; or
(d) OPM official who is authorized to enter into covered transactions with non-Federal parties.
§ 919.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
(a) To protect the public interest, the Federal Government ensures the integrity of Federal programs by conducting business only with responsible persons.
(b) A Federal agency uses the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system to exclude from Federal programs persons who are not presently responsible.
(c) An exclusion is a serious action that a Federal agency may take only to protect the public interest. A Federal agency may not exclude a person or commodity for the purposes of punishment.
§ 919.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
With the exceptions stated in §§ 919.120, 919.315, and 919.420, a person who is excluded by the OPM or any other Federal agency may not:
(a) Be a participant in a(n) OPM transaction that is a covered transaction under subpart B of this part;
(b) Be a participant in a transaction of any other Federal agency that is a covered transaction under that agency's regulation for debarment and suspension; or
(c) Act as a principal of a person participating in one of those covered transactions.
§ 919.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
(a) The Debarring Official may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Debarring Official grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.
§ 919.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under its nonprocurement common rule on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in Federal procurement transactions under the FAR. Therefore, an exclusion under this part has reciprocal effect in Federal procurement transactions.
§ 919.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under the FAR on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in nonprocurement covered transactions under this part. Therefore, an exclusion under the FAR has reciprocal effect in Federal nonprocurement transactions.
§ 919.135
May the OPM exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
Given a cause that justifies an exclusion under this part, we may exclude any person who has been involved, is currently involved, or may reasonably be expected to be involved in a covered transaction.
§ 919.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
Check the
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
to determine whether a person
is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS
and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 919.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?
Except if provided for in Subpart J of this part, this part—
(a) Addresses disqualified persons only to—
(1) Provide for their inclusion in the
EPLS;
and
(2) State responsibilities of Federal agencies and participants to check for disqualified persons before entering into covered transactions.
(b) Does not specify the—
(1) OPM transactions for which a disqualified person is ineligible. Those transactions vary on a case-by-case basis, because they depend on the language of the specific statute, Executive order, or regulation that caused the disqualification;
(2) Entities to which the disqualification applies; or
(3) Process that the agency uses to disqualify a person. Unlike exclusion, disqualification is frequently not a discretionary action that a Federal agency takes.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 919.200
What is a covered transaction?
A covered transaction is a nonprocurement or procurement transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of this part. It may be a transaction at—
(a) The primary tier, between a Federal agency and a person (see appendix to this part); or
(b) A lower tier, between a participant in a covered transaction and another person.
§ 919.205
Why is it important if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
The importance of a covered transaction depends upon who you are.
(a) As a participant in the transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in Subpart C of this part. Those include responsibilities to the person or Federal agency at the next higher tier from whom you received the transaction, if any. They also include responsibilities if you subsequently enter into other covered transactions with persons at the next lower tier.
(b) As a Federal official who enters into a primary tier transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart D of this part.
(c) As an excluded person, you may not be a participant or principal in the transaction unless—
(1) The person who entered into the transaction with you allows you to continue your involvement in a transaction that predates your exclusion, as permitted under § 919.310 or § 919.415; or
(2) A(n) OPM official obtains an exception from the Debarring Official to allow you to be involved in the transaction, as permitted under § 919.120.
§ 919.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
All nonprocurement transactions, as defined in § 919.970, are covered transactions unless listed in § 919.215. (See appendix to this part.)
§ 919.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
The following types of nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions:
(a) A direct award to—
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization;
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
(b) A benefit to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted). For example, if a person receives social security benefits under the Supplemental Security Income provisions of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.,
those benefits are not covered transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
(c) Federal employment.
(d) A transaction that the OPM needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster.
(e) A permit, license, certificate, or similar instrument issued as a means to regulate public health, safety, or the environment, unless the OPM specifically designates it to be a covered transaction.
(f) An incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations.
(g) Any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law.
§ 919.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
(a) Covered transactions under this part—
(1) Do not include any procurement contracts awarded directly by a Federal agency; but
(2) Do include some procurement contracts awarded by non-Federal participants in nonprocurement covered transactions (see appendix to this part).
(b) Specifically, a contract for goods or services is a covered transaction if any of the following applies:
(1) The contract is awarded by a participant in a nonprocurement transaction that is covered under § 919.210, and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000.
(2) The contract requires the consent of a(n) OPM official. In that case, the contract, regardless of the amount, always is a covered transaction, and it does not matter who awarded it. For example, it could be a subcontract awarded by a contractor at a tier below a nonprocurement transaction, as shown in the appendix to this part.
(3) The contract is for federally-required audit services.
§ 919.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?
As a participant in a transaction, you will know that it is a covered transaction because the agency regulations governing the transaction, the appropriate agency official, or participant at the next higher tier who enters into the transaction with you, will tell you that you must comply with applicable portions of this part.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
§ 919.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
When you enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier, you must verify that the person with whom you intend to do business is not excluded or disqualified. You do this by:
(a) Checking the
EPLS;
or
(b) Collecting a certification from that person if allowed by this rule; or
(c) Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that person.
§ 919.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as a participant may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person, unless the OPM grants an exception under § 919.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you have obtained an exception under the disqualifying statute, Executive order, or regulation.
§ 919.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue covered transactions with an excluded person if the transactions were in existence when the agency excluded
the person. However, you are not required to continue the transactions, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, unless the OPM grants an exception under § 919.120.
§ 919.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction if you were using the services of that person in the transaction before the person was excluded. However, you are not required to continue using that person's services as a principal. You should make a decision about whether to discontinue that person's services only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not begin to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction unless the OPM grants an exception under § 919.120.
§ 919.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
Yes, you as a participant are responsible for determining whether any of your principals of your covered transactions is excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction. You may decide the method and frequency by which you do so. You may, but you are not required to, check the
EPLS.
§ 919.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
If as a participant you knowingly do business with an excluded person, we may disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, debar or suspend you, or take other remedies as appropriate.
§ 919.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
Before entering into a covered transaction with a participant at the next lower tier, you must require that participant to—
(a) Comply with this subpart as a condition of participation in the transaction. You may do so using any method(s), unless § 919.440 requires you to use specific methods.
(b) Pass the requirement to comply with this subpart to each person with whom the participant enters into a covered transaction at the next lower tier.

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
§ 919.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the OPM?
Before you enter into a covered transaction at the primary tier, you as the participant must notify the OPM office that is entering into the transaction with you, if you know that you or any of the principals for that covered transaction:
(a) Are presently excluded or disqualified;
(b) Have been convicted within the preceding three years of any of the offenses listed in § 919.800(a) or had a civil judgment rendered against you for one of those offenses within that time period;
(c) Are presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses listed in § 919.800(a); or
(d) Have had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated within the preceding three years for cause or default.
§ 919.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 919.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
As a primary tier participant, your disclosure of unfavorable information about yourself or a principal under § 919.335 will not necessarily cause us to deny your participation in the covered transaction. We will consider the information when we determine whether to
enter into the covered transaction. We also will consider any additional information or explanation that you elect to submit with the disclosed information.
§ 919.345
What happens if I fail to disclose information required under § 919.335?
If we later determine that you failed to disclose information under § 919.335 that you knew at the time you entered into the covered transaction, we may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 919.350
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 919.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the OPM?
At any time after you enter into a covered transaction, you must give immediate written notice to the OPM office with which you entered into the transaction if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 919.335; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 919.335.

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
§ 919.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
Before you enter into a covered transaction with a person at the next higher tier, you as a lower tier participant must notify that person if you know that you or any of the principals are presently excluded or disqualified.
§ 919.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 919.355?
If we later determine that you failed to tell the person at the higher tier that you were excluded or disqualified at the time you entered into the covered transaction with that person, we may pursue any available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 919.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 919.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?
At any time after you enter into a lower tier covered transaction with a person at a higher tier, you must provide immediate written notice to that person if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 919.355; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 919.355.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of OPM Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 919.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as an agency official may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person unless you obtain an exception under § 919.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 919.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
As an agency official, you may not enter into a covered transaction with a participant if you know that a principal of the transaction is excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 919.120.
§ 919.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
After entering into a covered transaction with a participant, you as an agency official may not approve a participant's use of an excluded person as a principal under that transaction, unless you obtain an exception under § 919.120.
§ 919.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
(a) You as an agency official may continue covered transactions with an excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, if the transactions were in existence when the person was excluded. You are not required to continue the transactions, however, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, unless you obtain an exception under § 919.120.
§ 919.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
If a transaction at a lower tier is subject to your approval, you as an agency official may not approve—
(a) A covered transaction with a person who is currently excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 919.120; or
(b) A transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 919.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
As an agency official, you must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you—
(a) Enter into a primary tier covered transaction;
(b) Approve a principal in a primary tier covered transaction;
(c) Approve a lower tier participant if agency approval of the lower tier participant is required; or
(d) Approve a principal in connection with a lower tier transaction if agency approval of the principal is required.
§ 919.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
You check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified in two ways:
(a) You as an agency official must check the
EPLS
when you take any action listed in § 919.425.
(b) You must review information that a participant gives you, as required by § 919.335, about its status or the status of the principals of a transaction.
§ 919.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
You as an agency official must require each participant in a primary tier covered transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of this part as a condition of participation in the transaction; and
(b) Communicate the requirement to comply with Subpart C of this part to persons at the next lower tier with whom the primary tier participant enters into covered transactions.
§ 919.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
To communicate the requirement, you must include a term or condition in the transaction requiring the participants' compliance with subpart C of this part and requiring them to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
§ 919.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
If a participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person, you as an agency official may refer the matter for suspension and debarment consideration. You may also disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, or take any other appropriate remedy.
§ 919.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 919.335?
If you as an agency official determine that a participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 919.335, at the time it entered into a
covered transaction with you, you may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 919.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 919.355 to the next higher tier?
If you as an agency official determine that a lower tier participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 919.355, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with a participant at the next higher tier, you may pursue any remedies available to you, including the initiation of a suspension or debarment action.

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
§ 919.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
The
EPLS
is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.
§ 919.505
Who uses the EPLS?
(a) Federal agency officials use the
EPLS
to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 919.430.
(b) Participants also may, but are not required to, use the
EPLS
to determine if—
(1) Principals of their transactions are excluded or disqualified, as required under § 919.320; or
(2) Persons with whom they are entering into covered transactions at the next lower tier are excluded or disqualified.
(c) The
EPLS
is available to the general public.
§ 919.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
In accordance with the OMB guidelines, the General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS.
When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 919.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
(a) At a minimum, the
EPLS
indicates—
(1) The full name (where available) and address of each excluded or disqualified person, in alphabetical order, with cross references if more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for the action;
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action; and
(7) The Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), or other similar code approved by the GSA, of the excluded or disqualified person, if available.
(b)(1) The database for the
EPLS
includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
(2) Agencies disclose the SSN of an individual to verify the identity of an individual, only if permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if appropriate, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a).
§ 919.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
Federal officials who take actions to exclude persons under this part or officials who are responsible for identifying disqualified persons must enter the following information about those persons into the
EPLS
:
(a) Information required by § 919.515(a);
(b) The Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of the excluded or disqualified person, including the social security number (SSN) for an individual, if the number is available and may be disclosed under law;
(c) Information about an excluded or disqualified person, generally within five working days, after—
(1) Taking an exclusion action;
(2) Modifying or rescinding an exclusion action;
(3) Finding that a person is disqualified; or
(4) Finding that there has been a change in the status of a person who is listed as disqualified.
§ 919.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
If you have questions about a person in the
EPLS,
ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the
EPLS.
You may find the agency point of contact from the
EPLS.
§ 919.530
Where can I find the EPLS?
(a) You may access the
EPLS
through the Internet, currently at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
(b) As of November 26, 2003, you may also subscribe to a printed version. However, we anticipate discontinuing the printed version. Until it is discontinued, you may obtain the printed version by purchasing a yearly subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or by calling the Government Printing Office Inquiry and Order Desk at (202) 783-3238.

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
§ 919.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
When we receive information from any source concerning a cause for suspension or debarment, we will promptly report and investigate it. We refer the question of whether to suspend or debar you to our suspending or debarring official for consideration, if appropriate.
§ 919.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
Suspension differs from debarment in that—
A suspending official . . .
A debarring official . . .
(a) Imposes suspension as a temporary status of ineligibility for procurement and nonprocurement transactions, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings
Imposes debarment for a specified period as a final determination that a person is not presently responsible.
(b) Must—
(1) Have
adequate evidence
that there may be a cause for debarment of a person; and
(2) Conclude that
immediate action
is necessary to protect the Federal interest
Must conclude, based on a
preponderance of the evidence,
that the person has engaged in conduct that warrants debarment.
(c) Usually imposes the suspension
first,
and then promptly notifies the suspended person, giving the person an opportunity to contest the suspension and have it lifted
Imposes debarment
after
giving the respondent notice of the action and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 919.610
What procedures does the OPM use in suspension and debarment actions?
In deciding whether to suspend or debar you, we handle the actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness.
(a) For suspension actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart G of this part.
(b) For debarment actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart H of this part.
§ 919.615
How does the OPM notify a person of a suspension or debarment action?
(a) The suspending or debarring official sends a written notice to the last known street address, facsimile number, or e-mail address of—
(1) You or your identified counsel; or
(2) Your agent for service of process, or any of your partners, officers, directors, owners, or joint venturers.
(b) The notice is effective if sent to any of these persons.
§ 919.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
Yes, when more than one Federal agency has an interest in a suspension or debarment, the agencies may consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish
methods and procedures for coordinating their suspension and debarment actions.
§ 919.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment?
If you are suspended or debarred, the suspension or debarment is effective as follows:
(a) Your suspension or debarment constitutes suspension or debarment of all of your divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the suspension or debarment decision is limited—
(1) By its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions, or other organizational elements; or
(2) To specific types of transactions.
(b) Any affiliate of a participant may be included in a suspension or debarment action if the suspending or debarring official—
(1) Officially names the affiliate in the notice; and
(2) Gives the affiliate an opportunity to contest the action.
§ 919.630
May the OPM impute conduct of one person to another?
For purposes of actions taken under this rule, we may impute conduct as follows:
(a)
Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
(b)
Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
(c)
Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
§ 919.635
May the OPM settle a debarment or suspension action?
Yes, we may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Federal Government.
§ 919.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
Yes, if we enter into a settlement with you in which you agree to be excluded, it is called a voluntary exclusion and has governmentwide effect.
§ 919.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the OPM agrees to a voluntary exclusion?
(a) Yes, we enter information regarding a voluntary exclusion into the
EPLS.
(b) Also, any agency or person may contact us to find out the details of a voluntary exclusion.

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 919.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
Suspension is a serious action. Using the procedures of this subpart and subpart F of this part, the suspending official may impose suspension only when that official determines that—
(a) There exists an indictment for, or other adequate evidence to suspect, an offense listed under § 919.800(a), or
(b) There exists adequate evidence to suspect any other cause for debarment listed under § 919.800(b) through (d); and
(c) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.
§ 919.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
(a) In determining the adequacy of the evidence to support the suspension, the suspending official considers how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. During this assessment, the suspending official may examine the basic documents, including grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, contracts, and other relevant documents.
(b) An indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual and/or legal matters, constitutes adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
(c) In deciding whether immediate action is needed to protect the public interest, the suspending official has wide discretion. For example, the suspending official may infer the necessity for immediate action to protect the public interest either from the nature of the circumstances giving rise to a cause for suspension or from potential business relationships or involvement with a program of the Federal Government.
§ 919.710
When does a suspension take effect?
A suspension is effective when the suspending official signs the decision to suspend.
§ 919.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
After deciding to suspend you, the suspending official promptly sends you a Notice of Suspension advising you—
(a) That you have been suspended;
(b) That your suspension is based on—
(1) An indictment;
(2) A conviction;
(3) Other adequate evidence that you have committed irregularities which seriously reflect on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with you; or
(4) Conduct of another person that has been imputed to you, or your affiliation with a suspended or debarred person;
(c) Of any other irregularities in terms sufficient to put you on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) upon which we relied under § 919.700 for imposing suspension;
(e) That your suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or resulting legal or debarment proceedings;
(f) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other OPM procedures governing suspension decision making; and
(g) Of the governmentwide effect of your suspension from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 919.720
How may I contest a suspension?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a suspension, you or your representative must provide the suspending official with information in opposition to the suspension. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 919.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the suspending official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Suspension.
(b) We consider the notice to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 919.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the suspending official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Suspension. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, state, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Suspension that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the OPM may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 919.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) Your suspension is based upon an indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other finding by a Federal, State, or local body for which an opportunity to contest the facts was provided;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Suspension;
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the suspension are not factual in nature, or are not material to the suspending official's initial decision to suspend, or the official's decision whether to continue the suspension; or
(4) On the basis of advice from the Department of Justice, an office of the United States Attorney, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office, that substantial interests of the government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced by conducting fact-finding.
(b) You will have an opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the suspending official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 919.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
(a) Suspension proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The suspending official may use flexible procedures to allow you to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the suspending official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base a final suspension decision.
(b) You as a respondent or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the suspending official to consider.
§ 919.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the OPM agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 919.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
(a) The suspending official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the suspending official's initial decision to suspend you;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or opposition to, the suspension; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(b) The suspending official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any resulting findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 919.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
The suspending official must make a written decision whether to continue, modify, or terminate your suspension within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the suspending official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The suspending official may extend that period for good cause.
§ 919.760
How long may my suspension last?
(a) If legal or debarment proceedings are initiated at the time of, or during your suspension, the suspension may continue until the conclusion of those proceedings. However, if proceedings are not initiated, a suspension may not exceed 12 months.
(b) The suspending official may extend the 12 month limit under paragraph (a) of this section for an additional 6 months if an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests an extension in writing. In no event may a suspension exceed 18 months without initiating proceedings under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The suspending official must notify the appropriate officials under paragraph (b) of this section of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12 month period expires to allow the officials an opportunity to request an extension.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 919.800
What are the causes for debarment?
We may debar a person for—
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for—
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects your present responsibility;
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as—
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction;
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, before August 25, 1995;
(2) Knowingly doing business with an ineligible person, except as permitted under § 919.120;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed
the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 919.640 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701); or
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects your present responsibility.
§ 919.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
After consideration of the causes in § 919.800 of this subpart, if the debarring official proposes to debar you, the official sends you a Notice of Proposed Debarment, pursuant to § 919.615, advising you—
(a) That the debarring official is considering debarring you;
(b) Of the reasons for proposing to debar you in terms sufficient to put you on notice of the conduct or transactions upon which the proposed debarment is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) under § 919.800 upon which the debarring official relied for proposing your debarment;
(d) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other OPM procedures governing debarment; and
(e) Of the governmentwide effect of a debarment from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 919.810
When does a debarment take effect?
A debarment is not effective until the debarring official issues a decision. The debarring official does not issue a decision until the respondent has had an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 919.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a proposed debarment, you or your representative must provide the debarring official with information in opposition to the proposed debarment. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 919.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the debarring official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Proposed Debarment.
(b) We consider the Notice of Proposed Debarment to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 919.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the debarring official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in § 919.860. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Proposed Debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the OPM may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 919.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) Your debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment; or
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the proposed debarment are not factual in nature, or are not material to the debarring official's decision whether to debar.
(b) You will have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the debarring official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 919.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
(a) Debarment proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow you as a respondent to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the debarring official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base the decision whether to debar.
(b) You or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the debarring official to consider.
§ 919.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the OPM agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 919.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
(a) The debarring official may debar you for any of the causes in § 919.800. However, the official need not debar you even if a cause for debarment exists. The official may consider the seriousness of your acts or omissions and the mitigating or aggravating factors set forth at § 919.860.
(b) The debarring official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the debarring official's proposed debarment;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed debarment; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(c) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any resultant findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 919.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
(a) In any debarment action, we must establish the cause for debarment by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard of proof is met.
§ 919.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
(a) We have the burden to prove that a cause for debarment exists.
(b) Once a cause for debarment is established, you as a respondent have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the debarring official that you are presently responsible and that debarment is not necessary.
§ 919.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
This section lists the mitigating and aggravating factors that the debarring official may consider in determining whether to debar you and the length of your debarment period. The debarring official may consider other factors if appropriate in light of the circumstances of a particular case. The existence or nonexistence of any factor, such as one of those set forth in this section, is not necessarily determinative of your present responsibility. In making a debarment decision, the debarring official may consider the following factors:
(a) The actual or potential harm or impact that results or may result from the wrongdoing.
(b) The frequency of incidents and/or duration of the wrongdoing.
(c) Whether there is a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing. For example, if you have been found by another Federal agency or a State agency to have engaged in wrongdoing similar to that found in the debarment action, the existence of this fact may be used by the debarring official in determining that you have a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing.
(d) Whether you are or have been excluded or disqualified by an agency of the Federal Government or have not been allowed to participate in State or local contracts or assistance agreements on a basis of conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(e) Whether you have entered into an administrative agreement with a Federal agency or a State or local government that is not governmentwide but is based on conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(f) Whether and to what extent you planned, initiated, or carried out the wrongdoing.
(g) Whether you have accepted responsibility for the wrongdoing and recognize the seriousness of the misconduct that led to the cause for debarment.
(h) Whether you have paid or agreed to pay all criminal, civil and administrative liabilities for the improper activity, including any investigative or administrative costs incurred by the government, and have made or agreed to make full restitution.
(i) Whether you have cooperated fully with the government agencies during the investigation and any court or administrative action. In determining the extent of cooperation, the debarring official may consider when the cooperation began and whether you disclosed all pertinent information known to you.
(j) Whether the wrongdoing was pervasive within your organization.
(k) The kind of positions held by the individuals involved in the wrongdoing.
(l) Whether your organization took appropriate corrective action or remedial measures, such as establishing ethics training and implementing programs to prevent recurrence.
(m) Whether your principals tolerated the offense.
(n) Whether you brought the activity cited as a basis for the debarment to the attention of the appropriate government agency in a timely manner.
(o) Whether you have fully investigated the circumstances surrounding the cause for debarment and, if so, made the result of the investigation available to the debarring official.
(p) Whether you had effective standards of conduct and internal control systems in place at the time the questioned conduct occurred.
(q) Whether you have taken appropriate disciplinary action against the individuals responsible for the activity which constitutes the cause for debarment.
(r) Whether you have had adequate time to eliminate the circumstances within your organization that led to the cause for the debarment.
(s) Other factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case.
§ 919.865
How long may my debarment last?
(a) If the debarring official decides to debar you, your period of debarment will be based on the seriousness of the cause(s) upon which your debarment is based. Generally, debarment should not exceed three years. However, if circumstances warrant, the debarring official may impose a longer period of debarment.
(b) In determining the period of debarment, the debarring official may consider the factors in § 919.860. If a suspension has preceded your debarment, the debarring official must consider the time you were suspended.
(c) If the debarment is for a violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, your period of debarment may not exceed five years.
§ 919.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
(a) The debarring official must make a written decision whether to debar within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the debarring official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The debarring official may extend that period for good cause.
(b) The debarring official sends you written notice, pursuant to § 919.615 that the official decided, either—
(1) Not to debar you; or
(2) To debar you. In this event, the notice:
(i) Refers to the Notice of Proposed Debarment;
(ii) Specifies the reasons for your debarment;
(iii) States the period of your debarment, including the effective dates; and
(iv) Advises you that your debarment is effective for covered transactions and contracts that are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee grants an exception.
§ 919.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
Yes, as a debarred person you may ask the debarring official to reconsider the debarment decision or to reduce the time period or scope of the debarment. However, you must put your request in writing and support it with documentation.
§ 919.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
The debarring official may reduce or terminate your debarment based on—
(a) Newly discovered material evidence;
(b) A reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which your debarment was based;
(c) A bona fide change in ownership or management;
(d) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(e) Other reasons the debarring official finds appropriate.
§ 919.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?
(a) Yes, the debarring official may extend a debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b) However, the debarring official may not extend a debarment solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based.
(c) If the debarring official decides that a debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official must follow the applicable procedures in this subpart, and subpart F of this part, to extend the debarment.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 919.900
Adequate evidence.
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
§ 919.905
Affiliate.
Persons are
affiliates
of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
(a) Interlocking management or ownership;
(b) Identity of interests among family members;
(c) Shared facilities and equipment;
(d) Common use of employees; or
(e) A business entity which has been organized following the exclusion of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the excluded person.
§ 919.910
Agency.
Agency
means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.
§ 919.915
Agent or representative.
Agent or representative
means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.
§ 919.920
Civil judgment.
Civil judgment
means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
§ 919.925
Conviction.
Conviction
means—
(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or
(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.
§ 919.930
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.
§ 919.935
Debarring official.
(a)
Debarring official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 919.940
Disqualified.
Disqualified
means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
(a) The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276(a));
(b) The equal employment opportunity acts and Executive orders; or
(c) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7606), Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368) and Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799).
§ 919.945
Excluded or exclusion.
Excluded or exclusion
means—
(a) That a person or commodity is prohibited from being a participant in covered transactions, whether the person has been suspended; debarred; proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; voluntarily excluded; or
(b) The act of excluding a person.
§ 919.950
Excluded Parties List System.
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The
EPLS
system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and
Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.
§ 919.955
Indictment.
Indictment
means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
§ 919.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
Ineligible or ineligibility
means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.
§ 919.965
Legal proceedings.
Legal proceedings
means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.
§ 919.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
(a)
Nonprocurement transaction
means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Grants.
(2) Cooperative agreements.
(3) Scholarships.
(4) Fellowships.
(5) Contracts of assistance.
(6) Loans.
(7) Loan guarantees.
(8) Subsidies.
(9) Insurances.
(10) Payments for specified uses.
(11) Donation agreements.
(b) A nonprocurement transaction at any tier does not require the transfer of Federal funds.
§ 919.975
Notice.
Notice
means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 919.615.)
§ 919.980
Participant.
Participant
means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.
§ 919.985
Person.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.
§ 919.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
§ 919.995
Principal.
Principal
means—
(a) An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person within a participant with management or supervisory responsibilities related to a covered transaction; or
(b) A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who—
(1) Is in a position to handle Federal funds;
(2) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or,
(3) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the covered transaction.
§ 919.1000
Respondent.
Respondent
means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.
§ 919.1005
State.
(a)
State
means—
(1) Any of the states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(4) Any territory or possession of the United States; or
(5) Any agency or instrumentality of a state.
(b) For purposes of this part,
State
does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.
§ 919.1010
Suspending official.
(a)
Suspending official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 919.1015
Suspension.
Suspension
is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.
§ 919.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
(a)
Voluntary exclusion
means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
(b)
Voluntarily excluded
means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 919, App.

# Appendix to Part 919—Covered Transactions
ER26NO03.000
Pt. 920

# PART 920—TIMING OF CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
920.101
Definitions.
920.102
Positions covered by Fair Chance Act regulations.

# Subpart B—Timing of Inquiries Regarding Criminal History
920.201
Limitations on criminal history inquiries.
920.202
Violations.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1103(a)(5)(A), 9201-9206 and Pub. L. 116-92, sec. 1122(b)(1).

# Source:
88 FR 60332, Sept. 1, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 920.101
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Agency
means—
(1) An Executive agency as such term is defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, including—
(i) An Executive department defined in 5 U.S.C. 101;
(ii) A Government corporation defined in 5 U.S.C. 103(1); and
(iii) An independent establishment defined in 5 U.S.C. 104, including the Government Accountability Office;
(2) A military department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102;
(3) The United States Postal Service and the Postal Regulatory Commission; and
(4) Each component of the Executive Office of the President that is an independent establishment, or that has a position in the competitive service, with respect to an applicant for the position.
Applicant
means a person who has applied to an agency under its procedures for accepting applications consistent with governmentwide regulations, as applicable.
Appointing authority
means an employee in the executive branch of the Government of the United States that has authority to make appointments to positions in the civil service.
Conditional offer
means an offer of employment to a position in the civil service that is conditioned upon the results of a background investigation, including, as relevant here, the results of a criminal history inquiry.
Criminal history record information
—(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) f this definition, has the meaning given the term in section 9101(a) of title 5, United States Code;
(2) Includes any information described in the first sentence of section 9101(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, that has been sealed or expunged pursuant to law; and
(3) Includes information collected by a criminal justice agency, relating to an act or alleged act of juvenile delinquency, that is analogous to criminal history record information (including such information that has been sealed or expunged pursuant to law).
Employee
means an “employee” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105 and an employee of the United States Postal Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission.
Political appointment
means an appointment by the President without Senate confirmation (except those appointed under 5 CFR 213.3102(c)); an appointment to a position compensated under the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5312 through 5316); an appointment of a White House Fellow to be assigned as an assistant to a top-level Federal officer (5 CFR 213.3102(z)); a Schedule C appointment (5 CFR 213.3301, 213.3302); a noncareer, limited term, or limited emergency Senior Executive Service appointment (5 CFR part 317, subpart F); an appointee to serve in a political capacity under agency-specific authority; and a provisional political appointment.
§ 920.102
Positions covered by Fair Chance Act regulations.
(a)
Positions covered.
This part applies to all positions in the competitive service, excepted service, and Senior Executive Service in an agency.
(b)
Exempt positions.
For purposes of this part an exempt position is any position for which a hiring agency is required by statutory authority to make inquiries into an applicant's criminal history prior to extending an offer of employment to the applicant.

# Subpart B—Timing of Inquiries Regarding Criminal History
§ 920.201
Limitations on criminal history inquiries.
(a)
Applicability.
An employee of an agency may not request, in oral or written form (including through the Declaration for Federal Employment (Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306) or any similar successor form, the USAJOBS internet website, or any other electronic means) that an applicant for an appointment to a position in the civil service disclose criminal history record information regarding the applicant before the appointing authority extends a conditional offer to the applicant. This includes the following points in the recruitment and hiring process:
(1) Initial application, through a job opportunity announcement on USAJOBS, or through any recruitment/public notification such as on the agency's website/social media, etc.;
(2) After an agency receives an initial application through its back-end system, through shared service providers/recruiters/contractors, or orally or via email and other forms of electronic notification; and
(3) Prior to, during, or after a job interview. This prohibition applies to agency personnel, including when they act through shared service providers, contractors (acting on behalf of the agency) involved in the agency's recruitment and hiring process, or automated systems (specific to the agency or governmentwide).
(b)
Exceptions for certain positions.
(1) The prohibition under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to an applicant for an appointment to a position:
(i) Which is exempt in accordance with § 920.102(b);
(ii) That requires a determination of eligibility for access to classified information;
(iii) Has been designated as a sensitive position under the Position Designation System issued by OPM and the Office of Director of National Intelligence, which describes in greater detail agency requirements for designating positions that could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security;
(iv) Is a dual-status military technician position in which an applicant or employee is subject to a determination of eligibility for acceptance or retention in the armed forces, in connection with concurrent military membership; or
(v) Is a Federal law enforcement officer position meeting the definition in section 115(c) of title 18, U.S. Code.
(2) The prohibition under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to an applicant for a political appointment.
(c)
Notification to applicants.
Each agency must publicize to applicants the prohibition described in paragraph (a) of this section in job opportunity announcements and on agency websites/portals for positions that do not require a posting on USAJOBS, such as excepted service positions, and in addition to information on where it has posted about its complaint intake process under as required by part 754 of this chapter.
§ 920.202
Violations.
(a) An agency employee may not request, orally or in writing, information about an applicant's criminal history prior to making a conditional offer of employment to that applicant unless the position is exempted or excepted in accordance with § 920.201(b).
(b) A violation (or prohibited action) as defined in paragraph (a) of this section occurs when agency personnel, shared service providers, or contractors (acting on behalf of the agency) involved in the agency's recruitment and hiring process, either personally or through automated systems (specific to the agency or governmentwide), make oral or written requests prior to giving a conditional offer of employment—
(1) In a job opportunity announcement on USAJOBS or in any recruitment/public notification such as on the agency's website or social media;
(2) In communications sent after an agency receives an initial application, through an agency's talent acquisition system, shared service providers/recruiters/contractors, orally or in writing (including via email and other forms of electronic notification); or
(3) Prior to, during, or after a job interview or other applicant assessment.
(c) When a prohibited request, announcement, or communication is publicly posted or simultaneously distributed to multiple applicants, it constitutes a single violation.
(d) Any violation as defined in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the complaint and penalty procedures in part 754 of this chapter.
Pt. 930

# PART 930—PROGRAMS FOR SPECIFIC POSITIONS AND EXAMINATIONS (MISCELLANEOUS)

# Subpart A—Motor Vehicle Operators
Sec.
930.101
Purpose.
930.102
Definitions.
930.103
Coverage.
930.104
Objectives.
930.105
Minimum requirements for competitive and excepted service positions.
930.106
Details in the competitive service.
930.107
Waiver of road test.
930.108
Periodic medical evaluation.
930.109
Periodic review and renewal of authorization.
930.110
Identification of authorized operators and incidental operators.
930.111
State license in possession.
930.112
Identification card or document in possession.
930.113
Corrective action.
930.114
Reports required.
930.115
Requests for waiver of requirements.

# Subpart B—Administrative Law Judge Program
930.201
Coverage.
930.202
Definitions.
930.203
Cost of competitive examination.
930.204
Appointments and conditions of employment.
930.205
Administrative law judge pay system.
930.206
Performance rating and awards.
930.207
Details and assignments to other duties within the same agency.
930.208
Administrative Law Judge Loan Program—detail to other agencies.
930.209
Senior Administrative Law Judge Program.
930.210
Reduction in force.
930.211
Actions against administrative law judges.

# Subpart C—Information Security Responsibilities for Employees who Manage or Use Federal Information Systems
930.301
Information systems security awareness training program.

# Subpart A—Motor Vehicle Operators

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 3301, 3320, 7301; 40 U.S.C. 491; E.O. 10577, 3 CFR, 1954-1958 Comp., p. 218; E.O. 11222, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 306. (Separate authority is listed under § 930.107).

# Source:
50 FR 34669, Aug. 27, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 930.101
Purpose.
This subpart governs agencies in authorizing employees to operate Government-owned or ­-leased (acquired for other than short term use for which the Government does not have full control and accountability) motor vehicles for official purposes within the States of the Union, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 930.102
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Agency
means a department, independent establishment, or other unit of the executive branch of the Federal Government, including a wholly owned Government corporation, in the States of the Union, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
Employee
means an employee of an agency in either the competitive or excepted service or an enrollee of the Job Corps established by section 102 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2712).
Identification card
means the United States Government Motor Vehicle Operator's Identification Card, Optional Form 346, or an agency-issued identification card that names the types of Government-owned or -leased vehicles the holder is authorized to operate.
Identification document
means an official identification form issued by an
agency that properly identifies the individual as a Federal employee of the agency.
Incidental operator
means an employee, other than one occupying a position officially classified as a motor vehicle operator, who is required to operate a Government-owned or -leased motor vehicle to properly carry out his or her assigned duties.
Motor vehicle
means a vehicle designed and operated principally for highway transportation of property or passengers, but does not include a vehicle (a) designed or used for military field training, combat, or tactical purposes; (b) used principally within the confines of a regularly established military post, camp, or depot; or (c) regularly used by an agency in the performance of investigative, law enforcement, or intelligence duties if the head of the agency determines that exclusive control of the vehicle is essential to the effective performance of those duties.
Operator
means an employee who is regularly required to operate Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles and is occupying a position officially classified as motor vehicle operator.
Road test
means OPM's Test No. 544 or similar road tests developed by Federal agencies to evaluate the competency of prospective operators.
State license
means a valid driver's license that would be required for the operation of similar vehicles for other than official Government business by the States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or territory or possession of the United States in which the employee is domiciled or principally employed.
§ 930.103
Coverage.
This subpart governs agencies in authorizing their employees to operate Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles for official purposes within the States of the Union, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories or possessions of the United States and establishes minimum procedures to ensure the safe and efficient operation of such vehicles.
§ 930.104
Objectives.
This subpart requires that agencies (a) establish an efficient and effective system to identify those Federal employees who are qualified and authorized to operate Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles while on official Government business; and (b) periodically review the competence and physical qualifications of these Federal employees to operate such vehicles safely.
§ 930.105
Minimum requirements for competitive and excepted service positions.
(a) An agency may fill motor vehicle operator positions in the competitive or excepted services by any of the methods normally authorized for filling positions. Applicants for motor vehicle operator positions and incidental operators must meet the following requirements for these positions:
(1) Possess a safe driving record;
(2) Possess a valid State license;
(3) Except as provided in § 930.107, pass a road test; and
(4) Demonstrate that they are medically qualified to operate the appropriate motor vehicle safely in accordance with the standards and procedures established in this part.
(b) Agencies may establish additional requirements to assure that the objectives of this subpart are met.
[50 FR 34669, Aug. 27, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 3067, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 930.106
Details in the competitive service.
An agency may detail an employee to an operator position in the competitive service for 30 days or less when the employee possesses a State license. For details exceeding 30 days, the employee must meet all the requirements of § 930.105 and any applicable OPM and agency regulations governing such details.
[60 FR 3067, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 930.107
Waiver of road test.
Under the following conditions, OPM or an agency head or his or her designated representative may waive the road test:
(a) OPM waives the road test requirement for operators of vehicles of one
ton load capacity or less who possess a current driver's license from one of the 50 States, District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, where the employee is domiciled or principally employed, except for operators of buses and vehicles used for: (1) Transportation of dangerous materials; (2) law enforcement; or (3) emergency services.
(b) OPM waives the road test for operators, and agencies may waive the road test for incidental operators of any class of vehicle, who possess a current driver's license for the specific type of vehicle to be operated from one of the 50 States, District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, where the employee is domiciled or principally employed.
(c) An agency head may waive the road test for operators and incidental operators not covered by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, but only when in his or her opinion it is impractical to apply it, and then only for an employee whose competence as a driver has been established by his or her past driving record.
(5 U.S.C. 1104; Pub. L. 95-454, sec. 3(5))
§ 930.108
Periodic medical evaluation.
At least once every 4 years, each agency will ensure that employees who operate Government-owned or leased vehicles are medically able to do so without undue risk to themselves or others. When there is a question about an employee's ability to operate a motor vehicle safely, the employee may be referred for a medical examination in accordance with the provisions of part 339 of this chapter.
[60 FR 3067, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 930.109
Periodic review and renewal of authorization.
(a) At least once every 4 years, each agency will review each employee's authorization to operate Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles.
(b) An agency may renew the employee's authorization only after the appropriate agency official has determined that the employee is medically qualified and continues to demonstrate competence to operate the type of motor vehicle to which assigned based on a continued safe driving record.
[50 FR 34669, Aug. 27, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 3067, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 930.110
Identification of authorized operators and incidental operators.
Agencies must have procedures to identify employees who are authorized to operate Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles. Such procedures must provide for adequate control of access to vehicles and assure that the other requirements of this subpart are met.
[50 FR 34669, Aug. 27, 1985, as amended at 66 FR 66712, Dec. 27, 2001]
§ 930.111
State license in possession.
An operator or incidental operator will have a State license in his or her possession at all times while driving a Government-owned or -leased motor vehicle on a public highway.
§ 930.112
Identification card or document in possession.
The operator or incidental operator will have a valid agency identification card or document (e.g., building pass or credential) in his or her possession at all times while driving a Government-owned or -leased motor vehicle.
§ 930.113
Corrective action.
An agency will take adverse, disciplinary, or other appropriate action against an operator or an incidental operator in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Agency orders and directives will include the following reasons among those constituting sufficient cause for such action against an operator or an incidental operator:
(a) The employee is convicted of operating under the intoxicating influence of alcohol, narcotics, or pathogenic drugs.
(b) The employee is convicted of leaving the scene of an accident without making his or her identity known.
(c) The employee is not qualified to operate a Government-owned or -leased vehicle safely because of a physical or medical condition. In making such a determination, agencies should consult
a Federal medical officer or other medical authority as appropriate.
(d) The employee's State license is revoked.
(e) The employee's State license is suspended. However, the agency may continue the employee in his or her position for operation of Government-owned or -leased motor vehicles on other than public highways for not to exceed 45 days from the date of suspension of the State license.
§ 930.114
Reports required.
An agency will submit to OPM, on request (a) a copy of agency orders and directives issued in compliance with this subpart; and (b) such other reports as OPM may require for adequate administration and evaluation of the motor vehicle operator program.
§ 930.115
Requests for waiver of requirements.
Agencies may request authority from OPM to waive requirements in this subpart. OPM may grant exceptions or waivers when it finds these waivers or exceptions are in the interest of good administration and meet the objectives of this program.
[50 FR 34669, Aug. 27, 1985, as amended at 66 FR 66712, Dec. 27, 2001]

# Subpart B—Administrative Law Judge Program

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1104(a), 1302(a), 1305, 3105, 3301, 3304, 3323(b), 3344, 4301(2)(D), 5372, 7521, and E.O. 10577, 3 CFR, 1954-1958 Comp., p. 219.

# Source:
72 FR 12954, Mar. 20, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 930.201
Coverage.
(a) This subpart applies to individuals appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105 for proceedings required to be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557 and to administrative law judge positions.
(b) Administrative law judge positions are in the competitive service. Except as otherwise stated in this subpart, the rules and regulations applicable to positions in the competitive service apply to administrative law judge positions.
(c) The title “administrative law judge” is the official title for an administrative law judge position. Each agency must use only this title for personnel, budget, and fiscal purposes.
(d) The Director of OPM, or designee, shall prescribe the examination methodology in the design of each administrative law judge examination.
(e) OPM does not hire administrative law judges for other agencies but has the authority to:
(1) Recruit and examine applicants for administrative law judge positions, including developing and administering the administrative law judge examinations under 5 U.S.C. 3301, 3304, 1104(a), and 1302, and Executive Order 10577, as amended, except OPM is not required to use the examination scoring process in 5 CFR 337.101(a);
(2) Assure that decisions concerning the appointment, pay, and tenure of administrative law judges in Federal agencies are consistent with applicable laws and regulations;
(3) Establish classification and qualification standards for administrative law judge positions;
(4) Approve noncompetitive personnel actions for administrative law judges, including but not limited to promotions, transfers, reinstatements, restorations, and reassignments;
(5) Approve personnel actions related to pay for administrative law judges under § 930.205(c), (g), (h), and (k);
(6) Approve an intra-agency detail or assignment of an administrative law judge to a non-administrative law judge position that lasts more than 120 days or when an administrative law judge cumulates a total of more than 120 days for more than one detail or assignment within the preceding 12 months;
(7) Arrange the temporary detail (loan) of an administrative law judge from one agency to another under the provisions of the administrative law judge loan program in § 930.208;
(8) Arrange temporary reemployment of retired administrative law judges to meet changing agency workloads under the provisions of the Senior Administrative Law Judge Program in § 930.209;
(9) Maintain and administer the administrative law judge priority referral program under § 930.210(c);
(10) Promulgate regulations for purposes of sections 3105, 3344, 4301(2)(D) and 5372 of title 5, U.S.C.; and
(11) Ensure the independence of the administrative law judge.
(f) An agency employing administrative law judges under 5 U.S.C. 3105 has:
(1) The authority to appoint as many administrative law judges as necessary for proceedings conducted under 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557;
(2) The authority to assign an administrative law judge to cases in rotation so far as is practicable;
(3) The responsibility to ensure the independence of the administrative law judge; and
(4) The responsibility to obtain OPM's approval before taking any of the personnel actions described in paragraphs (e)(4) through (8) of this section.
[72 FR 12954, Mar. 20, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 5756, Jan. 30, 2024]
§ 930.202
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Administrative law judge position
means a position in which any portion of the duties requires the appointment of an administrative law judge under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Agency
has the same meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1).
Detail
means the temporary assignment of an administrative law judge from one administrative law judge position to another administrative law judge position without change in civil service or pay status.
Removal
means discharge of an administrative law judge from the position of an administrative law judge or involuntary reassignment, demotion, or promotion to a position other than that of an administrative law judge.
Senior administrative law judge
means a retired administrative law judge who is reemployed under a temporary appointment under 5 U.S.C. 3323(b)(2) and § 930.209 of this chapter.
Superior qualifications
means an appointment made at a rate above the minimum rate based on such qualifications as experience practicing law before the hiring agency; experience practicing before another forum in a field of law relevant to the hiring agency; or an outstanding reputation among others in a field of law relevant to the hiring agency.
§ 930.203
Cost of competitive examination.
Each agency employing administrative law judges must reimburse OPM for the cost of developing and administering the administrative law judge examination. Each agency is charged a pro rata share of the examination cost, based on the actual number of administrative law judges the agency employs. OPM computes the cost of the examination program on an annual basis and notifies the employing agencies of their respective shares after the calculations are made.
§ 930.204
Appointments and conditions of employment.
(a)
Appointment.
An agency may appoint an individual to an administrative law judge position only with prior approval of OPM, except when it makes its selection from the list of eligibles provided by OPM. An administrative law judge receives a career appointment and is exempt from the probationary period requirements under part 315 of this chapter. An administrative law judge appointment is subject to investigation, and an administrative law judge is subject to the suitability requirements in part 731 of this chapter.
(b)
Licensure.
At the time of application and any new appointment, the individual must possess a professional license to practice law and be authorized to practice law under the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territorial court established under the United States Constitution. Judicial status is acceptable in lieu of “active” status in States that prohibit sitting judges from maintaining “active” status to practice law. Being in “good standing” is also acceptable in lieu of “active” status in States where the licensing authority considers “good standing” as having a current license to practice law.
(c)
Appointment of incumbents of newly classified administrative law judge positions.
An agency may give an incumbent employee an administrative law judge career appointment if that employee is serving in the position when
it is classified as an administrative law judge position on the basis of legislation, Executive order, or a decision of a court and if:
(1) The employee has competitive status or is serving in an excepted position under a permanent appointment;
(2) The employee is serving in an administrative law judge position on the day the legislation, Executive order, or decision of the court on which the classification of the position is based becomes effective;
(3) OPM receives a recommendation for the employee's appointment from the agency concerned; and
(4) OPM determines the employee meets the qualification requirements and has passed the current examination for an administrative law judge position.
(d)
Appointment of an employee from a non-administrative law judge position.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, an agency may not appoint an employee who is serving in a position other than an administrative law judge position to an administrative law judge position.
(e)
Promotion.
(1) Except as otherwise stated in this paragraph, 5 CFR part 335 applies in the promotion of administrative law judges.
(2) To reclassify an administrative law judge position at a higher level, the agency must submit a request to OPM. When OPM approves the higher level classification, OPM will direct the promotion of the administrative law judge occupying the position prior to the reclassification.
(f)
Reassignment.
Prior to OPM's approval, the agency must provide a bona fide management reason for the reassignment.
(g)
Reinstatement.
An agency may reinstate a former administrative law judge who served under 5 U.S.C. 3105, passed an OPM administrative law judge competitive examination, and meets the professional license requirement in paragraph (b) of this section.
(h)
Transfer.
An agency may not transfer an individual from one administrative law judge position to another administrative law judge position within 1 year after the individual's last appointment, unless the gaining and losing agencies agree to the transfer.
(i)
Conformity.
Actions under this section must be consistent with § 930.201(f).
[72 FR 12954, Mar. 20, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 41235, July 18, 2008; 78 FR 71989, Dec. 2, 2013]
§ 930.205
Administrative law judge pay system.
(a) OPM assigns each administrative law judge position to one of the three levels of basic pay, AL-3, AL-2 or AL-1 of the administrative law judge pay system established under 5 U.S.C. 5372 in accordance with this section. Pay level AL-3 has six rates of basic pay, A, B, C, D, E, and F.
(1) The rate of basic pay for AL-3, rate A, may not be less than 65 percent of the rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule. The rate of basic pay for AL-1 may not exceed the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule.
(2) The President determines the appropriate adjustment for each level in the administrative law judge pay system, subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such adjustments take effect on the 1st day of the first pay period beginning on or after the first day of the month in which adjustments in the General Schedule rates of basic pay under 5 U.S.C. 5303 take effect.
(3) An agency must use the following procedures to convert an administrative law judge's annual rate of basic pay to an hourly, daily, weekly, or biweekly rate:
(i) To derive an hourly rate, divide the annual rate of pay by 2,087 and round to the nearest cent, counting one-half cent and over as the next higher cent.
(ii) To derive a daily rate, multiply the hourly rate by the number of daily hours of service required by the administrative law judge's basic daily tour of duty.
(iii) To derive a weekly or biweekly rate, multiply the hourly rate by 40 or 80, respectively.
(b) Pay level AL-3 is the basic pay level for administrative law judge positions filled through a competitive examination.
(c) Subject to OPM approval, agencies may establish administrative law judge positions in pay levels AL-2 and
AL-1. Administrative law judge positions are placed at these levels when they involve significant administrative and managerial responsibilities.
(d) Administrative law judges must serve at least 1 year in each AL pay level, or in an equivalent or higher level in positions in the Federal service, before advancing to the next higher level and may advance only one level at a time.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, upon appointment to an administrative law judge position and placement in level AL-3, an administrative law judge is paid at the minimum rate A of AL-3. He or she is automatically advanced successively to rates B, C, and D of that level upon completion of 52 weeks of service in the next lower rate, and to rates E and F of that level upon completion of 104 weeks of service in the next lower rate. Time in a non-pay status is generally creditable service when computing the 52-or 104-week period as long as it does not exceed 2 weeks per year for each 52 weeks of service. However, absence due to uniformed service or compensable injury is fully creditable upon reemployment as provided in part 353 of this chapter.
(f) When an applicant to an administrative law judge position at AL-3 has prior Federal service, the agency may set pay at a higher than minimum rate up to the lowest rate of basic pay that equals or exceeds the applicant's highest previous Federal rate of basic pay, not to exceed the maximum rate F. Before setting pay under this paragraph, an agency must establish a policy regarding use of this pay-setting authority that includes the following elements:
(1) Designation of officials with the authority to approve and set pay under this paragraph;
(2) Whether use of this authority is discretionary or mandatory;
(3) The factors the designated officials may or must consider in determining the rate at which to set the applicant's pay, which must include how the rate of basic pay has been set for other administrative law judges; and
(4) Documentation and recordkeeping requirements sufficient to allow reconstruction of the action.
(g) With prior OPM approval, an agency may offer a higher than minimum rate, up to the maximum rate F, to an administrative law judge applicant or a former administrative law judge with superior qualifications who is eligible for appointment to a position at AL-3. An agency request to OPM must include:
(1) A description of the superior qualifications (as defined in § 930.202) of the applicant or former administrative law judge;
(2) How pay has been set for administrative law judges who had similar qualifications (based on the level, type, or quality of the applicant's or former administrative law judge's skills or competencies or other qualities and experiences) and who have been newly appointed to positions that are similar to the administrative law judge's position (based on the position's occupational series, organization, geographic location, or other job-relevant factors), if applicable; and
(3) The proposed rate of basic pay and a justification for that rate, except an agency may not consider an applicant's or former administrative law judge's salary history (
i.e.,
existing salary or prior salary) or a salary from a competing job offer.
(h) With prior OPM approval, an agency, on a one-time basis, may advance an administrative law judge in an AL-3 position with added administrative and managerial duties and responsibilities one rate above the administrative law judge's current AL-3 pay rate, up to the maximum rate F.
(i) Upon appointment to an administrative law judge position placed at AL-2 or AL-1, an administrative law judge is paid at the established rate for the level.
(j) An employing agency may reduce the level or rate of basic pay of an administrative law judge under § 930.211.
(k) With prior OPM approval, an employing agency may reduce the level of basic pay of an administrative law judge if the administrative law judge submits to the employing agency a written request for a voluntary reduction due to personal reasons.
[72 FR 12954, Mar. 20, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 5756, Jan. 30, 2024]
§ 930.206
Performance rating and awards.
(a) An agency may not rate the job performance of an administrative law judge.
(b) An agency may not grant any monetary or honorary award or incentive under 5 U.S.C. 4502, 4503, or 4504, or under any other authority, to an administrative law judge.
§ 930.207
Details and assignments to other duties within the same agency.
(a) An agency may detail an administrative law judge from one administrative law judge position to another administrative law judge position within the same agency in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3341.
(b) An agency may not detail an employee who is not an administrative law judge to an administrative law judge position.
(c) An agency may assign an administrative law judge to perform non-administrative law judge duties only when:
(1) The other duties are consistent with administrative law judge duties and responsibilities;
(2) The assignment is to last no longer than 120 days; and
(3) The administrative law judge has not had a total of more than 120 days of such assignments or details within the preceding 12 months.
(d) OPM may authorize a waiver of paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section if an agency shows that it is in the public interest to do so. In determining whether a waiver is justified, OPM may consider, but is not restricted to considering, such factors as unusual case load or special expertise of the detailee.
§ 930.208
Administrative Law Judge Loan Program—detail to other agencies.
(a) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3344, OPM administers an Administrative Law Judge Loan Program that coordinates the loan/detail of an administrative law judge from one agency to another. An agency may request from OPM the services of an administrative law judge if the agency is occasionally or temporarily insufficiently staffed with administrative law judges, or an agency may loan the services of its administrative law judges to other agencies if there is insufficient work to fully occupy the administrative law judges' work schedule.
(b) An agency's request to OPM for the services of an administrative law judge must:
(1) Identify and briefly describe the nature of the cases(s) to be heard;
(2) Specify the legal authority for which the use of an administrative law judge is required; and
(3) Demonstrate, as appropriate, that the agency has no administrative law judge available to hear the case(s).
(c) The services of an administrative law judge under this program are made from the starting date of the detail until the end of the current fiscal year, but may be extended into the next fiscal year with OPM's approval. Decisions for an extension are made by OPM on a case-by-case basis.
(d) The agency requesting the services of an administrative law judge under this program is responsible for reimbursing the agency that employs the administrative law judge for the cost of the service.
§ 930.209
Senior Administrative Law Judge Program.
(a) OPM administers a Senior Administrative Law Judge Program in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3323(b)(2). The Senior Administrative Law Judge Program is subject to the requirements and limitations in this section.
(b) A senior administrative law judge must meet the:
(1) Annuitant requirements under 5 U.S.C. 3323;
(2) Professional license requirement in § 930.204(b); and
(3) Investigations and suitability requirements in part 731 of this chapter.
(c) Under the Senior Administrative Law Judge Program, OPM authorizes agencies that have temporary, irregular workload requirements for conducting proceedings in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557 to temporarily reemploy administrative law judge annuitants. If OPM is unable to identify an administrative law judge under § 930.208 who meets the agency's qualification
requirements, OPM will approve the agency's request.
(d) An agency wishing to temporarily reemploy an administrative law judge must submit a written request to OPM. The request must:
(1) Identify the statutory authority under which the administrative law judge is expected to conduct proceedings;
(2) Demonstrate the agency's temporary or irregular workload requirements for conducting proceedings;
(3) Specify the tour of duty, location, period of time, or particular cases(s) for the requested reemployment; and
(4) Describe any special qualifications the retired administrative law judge possesses that are required of the position, such as experience in a particular field, agency, or substantive area of law.
(e) OPM establishes the terms of the appointment for a senior administrative law judge. The senior administrative law judge may be reemployed either for a specified period not to exceed 1 year or for such time as may be necessary for the senior administrative law judge to conduct and complete the hearing and issue decisions for one or more specified cases. Upon agency request, OPM may reduce or extend such period of reemployment, as necessary, to coincide with changing staffing requirements.
(f) A senior administrative law judge serves subject to the same limitations as any other administrative law judge employed under this subpart and 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(g) A senior administrative law judge is paid the rate of basic pay for the pay level at which the position has been classified. If the position is classified at pay level AL-3, the senior administrative law judge is paid the lowest rate of basic pay in AL-3 that equals or exceeds the highest previous rate of basic pay attained by the individual as an administrative law judge immediately before retirement, up to the maximum rate F.
§ 930.210
Reduction in force.
(a)
Retention preference regulations.
Except as modified by this section, the reduction in force regulations in part 351 of this chapter apply to administrative law judges.
(b)
Determination of retention standing.
In determining retention standing in a reduction in force, each agency lists its administrative law judges by group and subgroup according to tenure of employment, veterans' preference, and service date as outlined in part 351 of this chapter. Because administrative law judges are not given performance ratings (see § 930.206), the provisions in part 351 of this chapter referring to the effect of performance ratings on retention standing are not applicable to administrative law judges.
(c)
Placement assistance.
(1) An administrative law judge who is reached in an agency's reduction in force and receives a notification of separation is eligible for placement assistance under the agency's reemployment priority list established and maintained in accordance with subpart B of part 330 of this chapter.
(2) An administrative law judge who is reached by an agency in a reduction in force and who is notified of being separated, furloughed for more than 30 days, or demoted, is entitled to have his or her name placed on OPM's administrative law judge priority referral list for the level in which last served and for all lower levels.
(i) To have his or her name placed on the OPM priority referral list, a displaced administrative law judge must provide OPM with a request for priority referral placement, a resume or equivalent, a list of acceptable geographical locations, and a copy of the reduction in force notice at any time after the receipt of the specific reduction in force notice, but not later than 90 days after the date of separation, furlough for more than 30 days, or demotion.
(ii) Eligibility on the OPM priority referral list expires 2 years after the effective date of the reduction in force action.
(iii) Referral and selection of administrative law judges are made without regard to selective certification or special qualification procedures.
(iv) Termination of eligibility on the OPM priority referral list takes place when an administrative law judge submits a written request to terminate
eligibility, accepts a permanent full-time administrative law judge position, or declines one full-time employment offer as an administrative law judge at or above the level held when reached for reduction in force at geographic locations indicated as acceptable under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) When there is no administrative law judge available on the agency's reemployment priority list, an agency may fill a vacant administrative law judge position only from OPM's priority referral list, unless the agency obtains prior approval from OPM to fill the vacant position through competitive examining, promotion, transfer, reassignment, or reinstatement procedures. OPM will grant such approvals only under extraordinary circumstances. The agency must demonstrate that the potential administrative law judge candidate possesses experience and qualifications superior to any available displaced administrative law judge on OPM's priority referral list.
§ 930.211
Actions against administrative law judges.
(a)
Procedures.
An agency may remove, suspend, reduce in level, reduce in pay, or furlough for 30 days or less an administrative law judge only for good cause established and determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board on the record and after opportunity for a hearing before the Board as prescribed in 5 U.S.C. 7521 and 5 CFR part 1201. Procedures for adverse actions by agencies under part 752 of this chapter do not apply to actions against administrative law judges.
(b)
Status during removal proceedings.
In exceptional cases when there are circumstances in which the retention of an administrative law judge in his or her position, pending adjudication of the existence of good cause for his or her removal, is detrimental to the interests of the Federal Government, the agency may:
(1) Assign the administrative law judge to duties consistent with his or her normal duties in which these circumstances would not exist;
(2) Place the administrative law judge on leave with his or her consent;
(3) Carry the administrative law judge on annual leave, sick leave, leave without pay, or absence without leave, as appropriate, if he or she is voluntarily absent for reasons not originating with the agency; or
(4) If the alternatives in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section are not available, the agency may consider placing the administrative law judge in a paid non-duty or administrative leave status.
(c)
Exceptions from procedures.
The procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply:
(1) In making dismissals or taking other actions under 5 CFR part 731;
(2) In making dismissals or other actions made by agencies in the interest of national security under 5 U.S.C. 7532;
(3) To reduction in force actions taken by agencies under 5 U.S.C. 3502; or
(4) In any action initiated by the Office of Special Counsel under 5 U.S.C. 1215.

# Subpart C—Information Security Responsibilities for Employees who Manage or Use Federal Information Systems

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 4118; Pub. L. 107-347, 116 Stat. 2899.

# Source:
69 FR 32836, June 14, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 930.301
Information systems security awareness training program.
Each Executive Agency must develop a plan for Federal information systems security awareness and training and
(a) Identify employees with significant information security responsibilities and provide role-specific training in accordance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidance available on the NIST Web site,
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/,
as follows:
(1) All users of Federal information systems must be exposed to security awareness materials at least annually. Users of Federal information systems include employees, contractors, students, guest researchers, visitors, and others who may need access to Federal information systems and applications.
(2) Executives must receive training in information security basics and policy level training in security planning and management.
(3) Program and functional managers must receive training in information security basics; management and implementation level training in security planning and system/application security management; and management and implementation level training in system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.
(4) Chief Information Officers (CIOs), IT security program managers, auditors, and other security-oriented personnel (e.g., system and network administrators, and system/application security officers) must receive training in information security basics and broad training in security planning, system and application security management, system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.
(5) IT function management and operations personnel must receive training in information security basics; management and implementation level training in security planning and system/application security management; and management and implementation level training in system/application life cycle management, risk management, and contingency planning.
(b) Provide the Federal information systems security awareness material/exposure outlined in NIST guidance on IT security awareness and training to all new employees before allowing them access to the systems.
(c) Provide information systems security refresher training for agency employees as frequently as determined necessary by the agency, based on the sensitivity of the information that the employees use or process.
(d) Provide training whenever there is a significant change in the agency information system environment or procedures or when an employee enters a new position that requires additional role-specific training.
Pt. 950

# PART 950—SOLICITATION OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN AND UNIFORMED SERVICE PERSONNEL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
950.101
Definitions.
950.102
Scope of the Combined Federal Campaign.
950.103
Establishing Local Federal Coordinating Committees.
950.104
Local Federal Coordinating Committee responsibilities.
950.105
Federal Agency Head responsibilities.
950.106
Central Campaign Administrator (CCA).
950.107
Campaign expense recovery.
950.108
Preventing coercive activity.
950.109
Avoidance of conflict of interest.
950.110
CCA Prohibited discrimination.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Provisions
950.201
Charity eligibility.
950.202
Charity eligibility requirements.
950.203
Public accountability standards.
950.204
Eligibility decisions and appeals.

# Subpart C—Federations
950.301
Federation eligibility.
950.302
Responsibilities of federations.

# Subpart D—Campaign Information
950.401
Campaign and publicity information.
950.402
Pledge form.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous Provisions
950.501
Release of contributor information.
950.502
Solicitation methods.
950.503
Sanctions and penalties.
950.504
Records retention.
950.505
Sanctions compliance certification.

# Subpart F—CFC Timetable
950.601
Campaign schedule.

# Subpart G—Payroll Withholding
950.701
Payroll allotment.

# Subpart H—Accounting and Distribution
950.801
Accounting and distribution.

# Authority:
E.O. 12353 (March 23, 1982), 47 FR 12785 (March 25, 1982), 3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 139; E.O. 12404 (February 10, 1983), 48 FR 6685 (February 15, 1983); Pub. L. 100-202, and Pub. L. 102-393 (5 U.S.C. 1101 Note).

# Source:
79 FR 21586, Apr. 17, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 950.101
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Administrative Expenses
means the overhead costs of the participating organization based on information from the Internal Revenue Service Form 990.
Application Fee
means a non-refundable fee paid by a charitable organization in each campaign period for which it seeks to participate.
Campaign Expenses
means the cost of the administration of the campaign by the Central Campaign Administrator and any Outreach Coordinators.
Central Campaign Administrator
means the organization(s) responsible for developing and maintaining the CFC Web site and charity application module, and to which OPM may assign responsibility for making distributions to charities.
Charity List
means the official list of charities approved by OPM for inclusion in the CFC.
Combined Federal Campaign
or
Campaign
or
CFC
means the charitable fundraising program established and administered by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Executive Order No. 12353, as amended by Executive Order No. 12404, and all subsidiary units of such program.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management or his/her designee.
Distribution fee
means amount assessed against pledges received should the application and listing fees not cover all the costs of the campaign.
Employee
means any person employed by the Government of the United States or any branch, unit, or instrumentality thereof, including persons in the civil service, uniformed service, foreign service, and the postal service.
Family Support and Youth Activities (FSYA)
means an organization on a domestic military base recognized by the Department of Defense as providing programs for military families on the base.
Family Support and Youth Programs (FSYP)
means an organization on a non- domestic military base recognized by the Department of Defense as providing programs for military families on the base.
Federation
or
Federated Group
means a group of voluntary charitable human health and welfare organizations created to supply common fundraising, administrative, and management services to its constituent members.
Independent Organization
means a charitable organization that is not a member of a federation for the purposes of the Combined Federal Campaign.
International General Designation Option
means an option available to donors under which his or her gift is distributed to all of the international organizations listed in the International Section of the Charity List in the same proportion as all of the international organizations received designations in the local CFC. This option will have the code IIIII.
International Organization
means a charitable organization that provides services either exclusively or in a substantial preponderance to persons in areas outside of the United States.
Listing Fee
means a non-refundable annual fee charged only to charitable organizations approved for participation.
Local Federal Coordinating Committee
means the group of Federal officials designated by the Director to oversee the CFC in a zone and to assist the Director with the charity application reviews.
Organization
or
Charitable Organization
means a non-profit, philanthropic, human health and welfare organization.
Outreach Coordinator
means an individual or an entity hired by the Local Federal Coordinating Committee to conduct marketing activities, arrange for events such as Charity Fairs, and educate charities and donors regarding the program.
Services
means the real services, benefits, assistance or program activities provided by charitable organizations. These may include, but are not limited to, medical research and assistance, education, financial assistance, mentoring, conservation efforts, spiritual development, the arts, and advocacy.
Solicitation
means any action requesting a monetary donation, either by payroll deduction or credit card, on behalf of charitable organizations.
§ 950.102
Scope of the Combined Federal Campaign.
(a) The CFC is the only authorized solicitation of employees in the Federal workplace on behalf of charitable organizations. A campaign may be conducted only during the period running from September 1 through January 15, as determined by the Director. It must be conducted at every Federal agency in accordance with the regulations in this part. No other monetary solicitation on behalf of charitable organizations may be conducted in the Federal workplace, except as follows:
(1) Federal agencies must provide information about the CFC to new employees at orientation. New employees may make pledges within 30 days of entry on duty, if outside of the campaign period.
(2) The Director may grant permission for solicitations of Federal employees, outside the CFC, in support of victims in cases of emergencies and disasters. Emergencies and disasters are defined as any hurricane, tornado storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, drought, fire, explosion, or other catastrophe in any part of the world. Any special solicitations will be managed through a Disaster Relief Program developed by OPM.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to the collection of gifts-in-kind, such as food, clothing and toys, or to the solicitation of Federal employees outside of the Federal workplace as defined by the applicable Agency Head consistent with General Services Administration regulations and any other applicable laws or regulations.
(c) The Director may exercise general supervision over all operations of the CFC, and take all necessary steps to ensure the achievement of campaign objectives, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Any disputes relating to the interpretation or implementation of this part may be submitted to the Director for resolution. The decisions of the Director are final for administrative purposes.
(2) The Director may audit, investigate, and report on the administration of any campaign, the organization that administers the campaign, and any national, international and local federation, federation member or independent organization that participates in the campaign for compliance with these regulations. The Director may resolve any issues reported and assess sanctions or penalties, as warranted under § 950.503.
(d) Current Federal civilian and active duty military employees may make contributions using payroll deduction or by electronic means, including credit/debit cards and e-checks, as approved by the Director. Contractor personnel, credit union employees and other persons present on Federal premises, as well as retired Federal employees, may make single contributions to the CFC by electronic means, including credit cards, as approved by the Director. For the first five campaign periods after implementation of these regulations, LFCCs will be permitted to still provide donors the option of using non-electronic pledging based on guidance issued by OPM.
(e) Heads of departments or agencies may establish policies and procedures applicable to solicitations conducted by organizations composed of civilian employees or members of the uniformed services among their own members for organizational support or for the benefit of welfare funds for their members. Such solicitations are not subject to these regulations, and therefore do not require permission of the Director.
§ 950.103
Establishing Local Federal Coordinating Committees.
(a) The Director, in his or her sole discretion, will establish, maintain, and, from time to time, revise an official list of campaign zones.
(b) For each campaign zone, the Director will establish a Local Federal Coordinating Committee (LFCC) for the purpose of governing the campaign for that zone. It will be the responsibility of the Federal Executive Board
or lead agency (as identified by the Director) in the zone to ensure an active and diverse membership, with a minimum of three members. The LFCC shall consist of the following:
(1) Members to be drawn from local Federal inter-agency organizations, such as Federal Executive Boards, or from personnel assigned to the military installation and/or agency identified as the lead agency in that zone;
(2) Representation from local Federal Agencies located within the zone, representing a cross-section of agencies with regard to personnel types and locations; and
(3) If approved by the Director, representatives of employee unions and other employee groups.
(c) The members of each LFCC must select a Chair and a Vice Chair. The Chair and Vice Chair positions will be rotated among the LFCC members. The term of the Chair and Vice Chair may not exceed three consecutive years. Any LFCC Chair or Vice Chair is subject to removal by the Director, in his sole and unreviewable discretion.
(d) The LFCC will ensure that, to the extent reasonably possible, every employee is given the opportunity to participate in the CFC.
§ 950.104
Local Federal Coordinating Committee responsibilities.
(a) The LFCC is to serve as the central source of information regarding the CFC among Federal employees in their zone. All members of the LFCC must develop an understanding of campaign regulations and procedures.
(b) The responsibilities of the LFCC members include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Attend required LFCC training and obtain certification in LFCC operations;
(2) Maintain minutes of LFCC meetings and respond promptly to any request for information from the Director;
(3) Name a LFCC Chair and Vice Chair and notify the Director when there is a change in either position;
(4) Assist in determining the eligibility of organizations that apply to participate in the campaign as required and assigned by OPM;
(5) Provide training to employees in the methods of non-coercive solicitation;
(6) Provide instructions to employees regarding the process for making donations and designating the charitable organizations to receive their donations.
(7) Take appropriate measures to protect potential donors from coercion to participate in the campaign.
(8) Bring any allegations of potential donor coercion to the attention of the employee's agency and provide a mechanism to review employee complaints of undue coercion in Federal fundraising. Federal agencies shall provide procedures and assign responsibility for the investigation of such complaints. The agency official responsible for conducting the campaign is responsible for informing employees of the proper channels for pursuing such complaints.
(9) Notify the Director of issues concerning the campaign that the LFCC cannot resolve by applying these regulations. The LFCC must abide by the Director's decisions on all matters concerning the campaign.
(10) Review, approve and provide authorization to the Central Campaign Administrator for payments to the outreach coordinator in an efficient and effective manner as outlined in the agreement between OPM and the Central Campaign Administrator.
(11) Conduct an effective and efficient campaign in a fair and even-handed manner aimed at collecting the greatest amount of charitable contributions possible. LFCC's should afford federated groups and agencies with representatives in the campaign area adequate opportunity to offer suggestions relating to the operation of the campaign.
(c) The LFCC may hire an Outreach Coordinator to provide local operation marketing support to their campaign, including developing marketing plans and materials, employee training, campaign event and activity support, and the printing and distribution of CFC Charity Lists and pledge forms as permitted in 5 CFR § 950.102(d).
(d) Monitor the work of the Outreach Coordinator, ensuring compliance with
these regulations, as well as performance as outlined in agreement with the LFCC.
§ 950.105
Federal Agency Head responsibilities.
(a) The agency head at each Federal installation within a campaign area should:
(1) Become familiar with all CFC regulations.
(2) Cooperate with the members of the LFCC in organizing and conducting the campaign.
(3) Initiate official campaigns within their offices or installations and provide support for the campaign.
(4) Assure the campaign is conducted in accordance with these regulations.
(5) Appoint an employee to oversee the Agency campaign.
(6) Establish a network of employees in support of the Agency's campaign.
(b) Agency heads may not discontinue solicitation of Federal employees during the campaign solicitation period within their organization without the written approval of the Director.
§ 950.106
Central Campaign Administrator (CCA).
(a) OPM may contract with one or more organizations classified by the Internal Revenue Service as 501(c)(3) organizations, to perform the centralized fiscal and administrative functions of the CFC. One organization will be responsible for developing and maintaining a centralized Web site for the CFC that will include an online application function for charities applying to participate in the CFC and an online pledging function for Federal donor use. All organizations will be responsible for disbursing funds received from the Federal payroll offices or service providers. If OPM contracts with more than one organization, the disbursement responsibilities will be divided between them based on Federal Shared Service Centers and Federal payroll offices. For example, if OPM contracts with four organizations, one would handle all agencies that use the National Finance Center as their Shared Service Center regardless of the location of the donor or the agency. Only non-CFC participating organizations may be selected as CCAs.
(b) In the event that there is no qualified CCA, no workplace solicitation of any Federal employee may be authorized and CFC payroll allotments would not be accepted or honored.
§ 950.107
Campaign expense recovery.
(a) The costs of outreach approved by the LFCC, training and traveling for the LFCC, and CCA will be recovered through application/listing fees and/or distribution fees paid by charitable organizations . The fee structure will be determined annually by the Director based on estimated costs of administering the central campaign and local marketing efforts. This structure will be announced no later than October 31 of the year preceding the campaign. Any excess funds from applications fees over expenses will be rolled over to the following campaign and be considered when setting the rates. Marketing expenses will not exceed a percentage of receipts as determined by the Director. No expenses for food or entertainment may be reimbursed to the Outreach Coordinator. Only travel-related food expenses may be reimbursed to the LFCC in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations.
(b) Charity application fees are due at the time of the filing of the application or the application deadline, whichever occurs last. A charity that has not paid the full application fee at that time may not participate in the CFC that campaign year.
(c) An additional listing fee will be applied to all charities approved for participation. These charities will not be listed in paper or electronic Charity Lists, and CFC contributions will not be processed on their behalf, if they do not submit the listing fee prior to the annual date set by OPM.
(d) The distribution fee will be assessed against pledges received should the application and listing fees not cover all the costs of the campaign.
§ 950.108
Preventing coercive activity.
True voluntary giving is fundamental to Federal fundraising activities. Actions that do not allow free choices or create the appearance that employees do not have a free choice to give or not
to give, or to publicize their gifts or to keep them confidential, are contrary to Federal fundraising policy. Activities contrary to the non-coercive intent of Federal fundraising policy are not permitted in campaigns. They include, but are not limited to:
(a) Solicitation of employees by their supervisor or by any individual in their supervisory chain of command. This does not prohibit the head of an agency to perform the usual activities associated with the campaign kick-off and to demonstrate his or her support of the CFC in employee newsletters or other routine communications with the Federal employees.
(b) Supervisory inquiries about whether an employee chose to participate or not to participate or the amount of an employee's donation. Supervisors may be given nothing more than summary information about the major units that they supervise.
(c) Setting of 100 percent participation goals.
(d) Establishing personal dollar goals and quotas.
(e) Developing and using lists of non-contributors.
(f) Providing and using contributor lists for purposes other than the routine collection and forwarding of contributions and allotments, and as allowed under § 950.501.
(g) Using as a factor in a supervisor's performance appraisal the results of the solicitation in the supervisor's unit or organization.
§ 950.109
Avoidance of conflict of interest.
Any Federal employee who serves on the LFCC, or as a Federal agency fundraising program employee, shall not serve in any official capacity or participate in any decisions where, because of membership on the board or other affiliation with a charitable organization, there could be or appear to be a conflict of interest under any statute, regulation, Executive order, or applicable agency standards of conduct.
§ 950.110
CCA Prohibited discrimination.
Discrimination for or against any individual or group on account of race, ethnicity, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other non-merit-based factor is prohibited in all aspects of the management and the execution of the CFC. Nothing herein denies eligibility to any organization, which is otherwise eligible under this part to participate in the CFC, merely because such organization is organized by, on behalf of, or to serve persons of a particular race, ethnicity, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, or genetic background.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Provisions
§ 950.201
Charity eligibility.
(a) The Director shall annually:
(1) Determine the timetable and other procedures regarding application for inclusion in the Charity List; and
(2) Determine which organizations among those that apply qualify to be included in the National/International, International and Local parts of the Charity List. In order to determine whether an organization may participate in the campaign, the Director may request evidence of corrective action regarding any prior violation of regulation or directive, sanction, or penalty, as appropriate. The Director retains the ultimate authority to decide whether the organization has demonstrated, to the Director's satisfaction, that the organization has taken appropriate corrective action. Failure to demonstrate satisfactory corrective action or to respond to the Director's request for information within 10 business days of the date of the request may result in a determination that the organization will not be included in the Charity List.
(b) The Charity List will include each organization's CFC code and other information as determined by OPM.
(c) A charity must submit the full application the initial year it applies to participate in the CFC. In lieu of a full application, a charity may submit a verification application for the two years immediately following its submission of a full application.
(1) A verification application consists of certification of all applicable statements required by §§ 950.202 and 950.203, and submission of an IRS Form 990 or pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3).
(2) An organization that did not apply or was not approved for participation in the preceding campaign must submit a full application.
§ 950.202
Charity eligibility requirements.
(a) The requirements for an organization to be listed in the Charity List shall include the following:
(1) Certification that it provides or conducts real services, benefits, assistance, or program activities (hereafter listed as “services”), in 15 or more different states or one or more foreign countries over the 3 calendar year period immediately preceding January 1 of the campaign application year. A schedule listing a detailed description of the services in each state (minimum 15) or foreign countries (minimum 1), including the year of service and documenting the location and date and year of each service, and the number of beneficiaries of each such service must be included with the CFC application. The schedule must make a clear showing of national or international presence. Broad descriptions of services and identical repetitive narratives will not be accepted in the sole discretion of OPM if they do not allow OPM to adequately determine that real services were provided or to accurately determine the individuals or entities who benefited. It must be clear in the documentation submitted that the organization provided at least one human health and welfare service in the calendar year prior to the year for which the organization is applying. Publications or other documents in lieu of a schedule detailing this information are not acceptable.
(i) Local charitable organizations are not required to have provided services in 15 states or a foreign country over the prior 3 years. The schedule for local organizations is only required to document services in their local area. Local organizations must also certify that the Organization Address submitted with the application is the primary location where the organization's services are rendered and/or its records are maintained.
(ii) This requirement cannot be met solely by the provision of services via telephone, unless the service is emergency in nature such as a suicide prevention hotline. The requirement is also not met solely by disseminating information and publications via the U.S. Postal Service or the Internet, unless it meets the criteria for web- based services as described in § 950.202(a)(1)(iii), or a combination thereof.
(iii) Real services for web-based service organizations may be considered if the organization provides service logs or other records indicating the geographic distribution of users in each state. The organization must demonstrate the scope of services received by users over the three-year period immediately preceding the start of the campaign year involved. Reports that reflect only the number of hits or visits to a Web site are not sufficient to establish the provision of real services. In addition, two of the three following types of information must be provided to demonstrate the provision of real services, benefits, assistance, or program activities:
(A) Evidence that recipients, including members of the general public, dues paying members or affiliate organizations, have registered for use of the Web site;
(B) Summary reports that document customer feedback, through service satisfaction or utilization surveys, demonstration of two-way communications, such as an online class, or other mechanisms; and
(C) Documented evidence that recipients of web-based services paid a fee for the service.
(iv) Providing listings of affiliated groups does not demonstrate provision of real services by the applicant. Location of residence of organization members or location of residence of visitors to a facility does not substantiate provision of services. Schedules that describe activities conducted by an entity other than the applicant, such as a chapter or a support group, must include information documenting the applicant's role in the delivery of the
service. Details may include items such as whether the chapter is funded by the applicant or how the applicant assisted in the delivery of the service. Applications that fail to include a description of how the applicant itself provides service may result in a denial.
(v) Organizations that provide student scholarships or fellowships must indicate the state in which the recipient resides, not the state of the school or place of fellowship. Mere dissemination of information does not demonstrate acceptable provision of real services.
(vi) While it is not expected that an organization maintain an office in each state or foreign country, a clear showing must be made of the actual services, benefits, assistance or activities provided in each state or foreign country. Organizations that provide services in one location may only count the state in which the services are provided toward their eligibility to participate on the national charity list. However, an organization may have beneficiaries from several states and want service to those beneficiaries considered toward the 15-state requirement to participate on the national Charity List. If an organization can document that the services are subsidized or were provided free-of-charge, and list the value of those services to each of the beneficiaries, then the service to the beneficiary may be considered a service in the state of the beneficiary's residence, similar to a financial grant or scholarship. For example, a medical institution providing free housing to family members of the patient during the length of the patient's stay must list the location of the medical institution, the city/state of residence of each beneficiary, the dates of service, and the value of the housing provided to each beneficiary's family members.
(vii) An organization's role in providing information to the media, such as authorship of an article for a newspaper, magazine, or journal, or serving as an interviewee or reference for a television news program, or the authorship of a book, does not in itself constitute a real service for CFC purposes. Likewise, the production and/or distribution of information, such as a report based on research, surveys conducted by the applicant organization, or publication of a policy position paper, does not, in itself, constitute an eligible service. With regard to media-related activities, research, and reports, the applicant must describe the manner in which beneficiaries requested or used the document or information in order to establish the provision of a real services, benefit, assistance, or program activity.
(viii) De minimis services, benefits, assistance, or other program activities in any state or foreign country will not be accepted as a basis for qualification as a national or international organization. Factors that OPM will consider in determining whether an organization's services, benefits, assistance or other program activities are de minimis include, but are not limited to: nature and extent of the service, benefit, assistance or activity; frequency, continuity, and duration; value of financial assistance awarded to individuals or entities; impact on, or benefit to, beneficiaries; and number of beneficiaries.
(2) Certification that it is an organization recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as tax exempt under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) to which contributions are deductible under 26 U.S.C. 170(c)(2). The CFC will verify that each applicant's name and Employer Identification Number appears in the IRS Business Master File (BMF). If the organization does not appear in the BMF, one of the following must accompany the application:
(i) An affirmation letter from the IRS, dated on or after January 1 of the campaign year to which the organization is applying, that verifies the organization's current 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status.
(ii) A local affiliate of a national organization that is not separately incorporated must submit a certification from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or CEO equivalent of the national organization stating that it operates as a bonafide chapter or affiliate in good standing of the national organization and is covered by the national organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption. The letter must be signed and dated on or after October 1 of the calendar year preceding the campaign
year for which the organization is applying.
(iii) For central organizations that are churches, the CFC will accept a copy of its most recently published listing (such as a church directory) of section 501(c)(3) organizations that are included in the group exemption held by the central organization. A subordinate may alternatively obtain a letter from the central organization affirming the subordinate's status as an organization exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code that is included in the group exemption held by the central organization.
(iv) Family Support and Youth Activities (FSYA) located on military installations in the United States and Family Support and Youth Programs (FSYP) located on military installations overseas must provide a copy of certification by the commander of a military installation, as outlined in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section, to demonstrate tax-exempt status.
(3) Family support and youth activities or programs certified by the commander of a military installation as meeting the eligibility criteria contained in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section may appear on the list of local organizations and be supported from CFC funds. Family support and youth activities may participate in the CFC as a member of a federation at the discretion of the certifying commander.
(4) A family support and youth activity or program must:
(i) Be a nonprofit, tax-exempt organization that provides family service programs or youth activity programs to personnel in the Command and be a Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality that supports the installation MWR/FSYA/FSYP program. The activity must not receive a majority of its financial support from appropriated funds.
(ii) Have a high degree of integrity and responsibility in the conduct of their affairs. Contributions received must be used effectively for the announced purposes of the organization.
(iii) Be directed by the base Non-Appropriated Fund Council or an active voluntary board of directors which serves without compensation and holds regular meetings.
(iv) Conduct its fiscal operations in accordance with a detailed annual budget, prepared and approved at the beginning of the fiscal year. Any significant variations from the approved budget must have prior authorization from the Non-Appropriated Fund Council or the directors. The family support and youth activities must have accounting procedures acceptable to an installation auditor and the inspector general.
(v) Have a policy and practice of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or national origin applicable to persons served by the organization.
(vi) Prepare an annual report which includes a full description of the organization's activities and accomplishments. These reports must be made available to the public upon request.
§ 950.203
Public accountability standards.
(a) To ensure organizations wishing to solicit donations from Federal employees in the workplace are portraying accurately their programs and benefits, each organization seeking eligibility must meet annually applicable standards and certification requirements. Each organization, other than FSYA or FSYP, wishing to participate must:
(1) Certify that the organization is a human health and welfare organization providing services, benefits, or assistance to, or conducting activities affecting, human health and welfare. The organization's application must provide documentation describing the health and human welfare benefits provided by the organization within the previous calendar year;
(2) Subject to the exceptions listed in this section, certify that it accounts for its funds on an accrual basis in accordance with United States or International generally accepted accounting principles and that an audit of its fiscal operations is completed annually by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. A copy of the organization's most recent annual
audited financial statements must be included with the application. The statements must include all statements required for voluntary health and welfare organizations by the United States Financial Accounting Standards Board or the International Accounting Standards Board. The audited financial statements must cover the fiscal period ending not more than 18 months prior to the January of the year of the campaign for which the organization is applying. For example, the audited financial statements included in the 2014 application must cover the fiscal period ending on or after June 30, 2012.
(i) An organization with annual revenue of less than $100,000 reported on its IRS Form 990 or pro forma IRS Form 990 submitted to the CFC is not required to undergo an audit, submit audited financial statements, or to account for its funds on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Rather, the organization must certify that it has controls in place to ensure that funds are properly accounted for and that it can provide accurate and timely financial information to interested parties.
(ii) An organization with annual revenue of at least $100,000 but less than $250,000 is not required to undergo an audit. The organization must certify that its financial statements are reviewed by an independent certified public accountant on an annual basis or are audited by an independent public accountant on an annual basis. A copy of the reviewed or audited financial statements must be included with the application.
(3) Certify that it prepares and submits to the IRS a complete copy of the organization's IRS Form 990 or that it is not required to prepare and submit an IRS Form 990 to the IRS. Provide a completed copy of the organization's IRS Form 990 submitted to the IRS covering a fiscal period ending not more than 18 months prior to the January of the year of the campaign for which the organization is applying, including signature, and all supplemental schedules, with the application, or if not required to file an IRS Form 990, provide a pro forma IRS Form 990. Pro forma IRS Form 990 instructions will be posted on the OPM Web site and included in the application instructions. IRS Forms 990EZ, 990PF, and comparable forms are not acceptable substitutes. The IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements, if required, must cover the same fiscal period.
(4) Provide a computation of the organization's percentage of total support and revenue spent on administrative and fundraising. This percentage shall be computed from information on the IRS Form 990 submitted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(5) Certify that the organization is directed by an active and responsible governing body whose members have no material conflict of interest and, a majority of which serve without compensation.
(6) Certify that the organization's fundraising practices prohibit the sale or lease of its CFC contributor lists.
(7) Certify that its publicity and promotional activities are based upon its actual program and operations, are truthful and non-deceptive, and make no exaggerated or misleading claims.
(8) Certify that contributions are effectively used for the announced purposes of the charitable organization.
(9) Provide a statement that the certifying official is authorized by the organization to certify and affirm all statements required for inclusion on the Charity List.
(b) The Director shall review these applications for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with these regulations. Failure to supply any of this information may be judged a failure to comply with the requirements of public accountability, and the charitable organization may be ruled ineligible for inclusion on the Charity List.
(c) The Director may request such additional information as the Director deems necessary to complete these reviews. An organization that fails to comply with such requests within 10 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request may be judged ineligible.
(d) The required certifications and documentation must have been completed and submitted prior to the application filing deadline.
(e) The Director may waive any of these standards and certifications upon
a showing of extenuating circumstances.
§ 950.204
Eligibility decisions and appeals.
(a) Organizations applying for participation in the CFC will be notified of the eligibility decision electronically via the email address(es) listed in the charity application.
(b) Organizations that apply and are denied eligibility for inclusion on the Charity List may appeal the decision by submitting a request for reconsideration. This request must be received within 10 business days from the date the decision to deny eligibility was sent via email and shall be limited to those facts justifying the reversal of the original decision.
(c) All appeals must:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Be received by the Director within 10 business days of the date the decision to deny the application was sent via email;
(3) Include a statement explaining the reason(s) why eligibility should be granted; and
(4) Include a copy of the communication from OPM disapproving the original application and supporting information to justify the reversal of the original decision.
(d) Applications or appeals of an adverse eligibility determination must be submitted in a timely manner as indicated above.
(e) Appeals may not be used to supplement applications with documents that did not exist or were not set forth in final form prior to the application deadline. For example, audited financial statements that were not prepared or were in draft form at the time of the deadline cannot be used to document eligibility. Similarly, charities that had applied for, but had not obtained, 501(c)(3) status from the IRS by the CFC application deadline are not eligible to participate for that campaign year.
(f) The Director's decision is final for administrative purposes.

# Subpart C—Federations
§ 950.301
Federation eligibility.
(a) The Director may recognize federations that conform to the requirements set by the Director and are eligible to receive designations. In order to determine whether the Director will recognize a federation, the Director may request evidence of corrective action regarding any prior violation of regulation or directive, sanction, or penalty, as appropriate. The Director retains the ultimate authority to decide whether the federation has demonstrated, to the Director's satisfaction, that the federation has taken appropriate corrective action. Failure to demonstrate satisfactory corrective action or to respond to the Director's request for information within 10 business days of the date of the request may result in a determination that the federation will not be included in the Charity List. The Director also reserves the authority to place a moratorium on the recognition of federations from time to time.
(b) By applying for inclusion in the CFC, federations consent to allow the Director complete access to its and its members' CFC books and records and to respond to requests for information by the Director.
(c) An organization may apply to the Director for inclusion as a federation to participate in the CFC if the applicant has, as members of the proposed federation, 15 or more charitable organizations, in addition to the federation itself, that meet the eligibility criteria of §§ 950.202 and 950.203. The federation must submit the applications of all its proposed member organizations annually.
(d) After an organization has been granted federation status, it may certify that its member organizations meet all eligibility criteria of § 950.202 and § 950.203 to be included on the Charity List. Federation status in a prior campaign is not a guarantee of federation status in a subsequent campaign. Failure to meet minimum federation eligibility requirements shall not be deemed to be a withdrawal of federation status subject to a hearing on the record.
(e) An applicant for federation status must annually certify and/or demonstrate:
(1) That all member organizations seeking participation in the CFC are qualified for inclusion on the National/International or International or Local part of the Charity List. Applicants must provide a complete list of those member organizations it certified in addition to each organization's complete application.
(2) That it meets the eligibility requirements and public accountability standards contained in § 950.202 and § 950.203. The federation can demonstrate that it has met the eligibility requirement in § 950.202(a) either through its own services, benefits, assistance or program activities or through its 15 members' activities.
(i) The federation must complete the certification set forth at § 950.203(a)(2) without regard to the amount of revenue reported on its IRS Form 990 and must provide a copy of its audited financial statements. The audited financial statements provided must verify that the federation is honoring designations made to each member organization by distributing a proportionate share of receipts based on donor designations to each member. The audit requirement is waived for newly created federations operating for less than two years from the date of its IRS tax-exemption letter to the closing date of the CFC application period.
(ii) The federation must provide a listing of its board of directors, beginning and ending dates of each member's current term of office, and the board's meeting dates and locations for the calendar year prior to the year of the campaign for which the organization is applying.
(3) That it does not employ in its CFC operations the services of private consultants, consulting firms, advertising agencies or similar business organizations to perform its policy-making or decision-making functions in the CFC. It may, however, contract with entities or individuals such as banks, accountants, lawyers, and other vendors of goods and/or services to assist in accomplishing its administrative tasks.
(f) The Director will notify a federation if it is determined that the federation does not meet the eligibility requirements of this section. A federation may appeal an adverse eligibility decision in accordance with § 950.204.
(g) The Director may waive any eligibility criteria for federation status if it is determined that such a waiver will be in the best interest of the CFC.
(h) Two organizations—American Red Cross and United Service Organization—are exempt from the 15- member requirement of paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 950.302
Responsibilities of federations.
(a) Federations must ensure that only those member organizations that comply with all eligibility requirements included in these regulations are certified for participation in the CFC.
(b) The Director may elect to review, accept or reject the certifications of the eligibility of the members of federations. If the Director requests information supporting a certification of eligibility, that information shall be furnished promptly. Failure to furnish such information within 10 business days of the receipt of the request constitutes grounds for the denial of national eligibility of that member.
(c) Each federation, as fiscal agent for its member organizations, must ensure that Federal employee designations are honored in that each member organization receives its proportionate share of receipts based on the results of each individual campaign. The proportionate share of receipts is determined by donor designations to the individual member organization as compared to total campaign designations.
(d) Federations must disburse CFC funds to each member organization without any further deductions. Membership dues, fees, or other charges to member organizations must be assessed outside of the CFC disbursement process.
(e) Federations must disburse CFC funds to member organizations on a quarterly basis, at a minimum. The disbursements must be made within the months of June, September, December, and March.
(f) Disbursements to federation members that include funds from a non- CFC campaign must include a report that clearly identifies the amount of CFC funds.

# Subpart D—Campaign Information
§ 950.401
Campaign and publicity information.
(a) The specific campaign marketing and publicity information will be developed locally, except as specified in the regulations in this subpart. All information must be reviewed and approved by the LFCC for compliance with these regulations and will be developed and supplied by the LFCC or contracted agent.
(b) During the CFC solicitation period, a participating CFC organization may distribute bona fide educational information describing its services or programs. The organization must be granted permission by the Federal agency installation head, or designee to distribute the material. CFC Coordinators, Keyworkers, other employees or members of the LFCC, are not authorized to grant permission for the distribution of such information. If one organization is granted permission to distribute educational information, then the Federal agency installation head must allow any other requesting CFC organization to distribute educational information.
(c) Organizations and federations are encouraged to publicize their activities outside Federal facilities and to broadcast messages aimed at Federal employees in an attempt to solicit their contributions through the media and other outlets.
(d) Agency Heads are further authorized to permit the distribution by organizations of promotional information to Federal personnel in public areas of Federal workplaces in connection with the CFC, provided that the manner of distribution accords equal treatment to all charitable organizations furnishing such information for local use, and further provided that no such distribution shall utilize Federal personnel on official duty or interfere with Federal government activities. LFCC members and other campaign personnel are to be particularly aware of the prohibition of assisting any charitable organization or federated group in distributing any type of literature, especially during the campaign. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a LFCC to distribute or arrange for the distribution of any material other than LFCC approved marketing materials.
(e) The Campaign Charity List and pledge form are the official sources of CFC information and shall be made available in electronic format to all potential contributors. The Charity List and pledging system must inform employees of their right to make a choice to contribute or not to contribute.
(f) Campaign marketing materials must be comprised of a simple and attractive design that is donor focused and has fundraising appeal and essential working information. The design must focus on the CFC without undue use of charitable organization symbols and logos or other distractions that compete for the donor's attention.
(g) The following applies specifically to the campaign Charity List:
(1) OPM will provide the approved Charity List as well as general campaign information. This will include:
(i) An explanation of the payroll deduction privilege.
(ii) A description and explanation of other electronic pledging, to include credit cards.
(iii) A statement that the donor may only designate charitable organizations or federations that are listed in the Charity List and that write-ins are prohibited.
(iv) Instructions as to how an employee may obtain more specific information about the programs and the finances of the organizations participating in the campaign.
(v) A description of employees' rights to pursue complaints of undue pressure or coercion in Federal fundraising activities.
(2) The Charity List will consist of National/International, International, and Local organizations. The order of these organizations will be rotated annually in accordance with OPM instructions. The order of listing of the federated and independent organizations will be determined by a random
selection process. The order of organizations within each federation will be determined by the federation. The order within the National/International, International and Local independent groups will be alphabetical. Absent specific instructions from OPM to the contrary, each participating organization and federated group listing must include a description, not to exceed 256 characters, of its services and programs, plus a Web site address and telephone number for the Federal donor to obtain further information about the group's services, benefits, and administrative expenses. Each listing will include the organization's administration and fundraising percentage as calculated pursuant to § 950.203(a)(4). Neither the percentage of administrative and fundraising expenses, nor the Web site address or telephone number count toward the 256 character description.
(3) Each federation and charitable organization will be assigned a code in a manner determined by the Director. At the beginning of each federated group's listing will be the federation's name, code number, 256 character description, percentage of administrative and fundraising expenses, Web site address and telephone number. Each organization will be identified as National/International, International and Local, respectively.
(h)
Listing of national and local affiliate.
Listing of a national organization, as well as its local affiliate organization, is permitted. Each national or local organization must individually meet all of the eligibility criteria and submit independent documentation as required in § 950.202 and § 950.203 to be included in the Charity List. However, a local affiliate of a national organization that is not separately incorporated, in lieu of its own 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and, to the extent required by § 950.203(a)(2), audited financial statements, may submit the national organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and audited financial statements, but must provide its own pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3), for CFC purposes. The local affiliate must submit a certification from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or CEO equivalent of the national organization stating that it operates as a bonafide chapter or affiliate in good standing of the national organization and is covered by the national organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption, IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements.
(i)
Listing local offices.
Listing of a local organization, as well as its satellite offices, is permitted, as long as there is no more than one location within a county or parish. Each office must individually meet all of the eligibility criteria and submit independent documentation as required in § 950.202 and § 950.203 to be included in the Charity List. However, a satellite office that is not separately incorporated, in lieu of its own 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and, to the extent required by § 950.203(a)(2), audited financial statements, may submit the local organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and audited financial statements, but must provide its own pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3), for CFC purposes. The satellite office must submit a certification from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or CEO equivalent of the local organization stating that it operates as a bonafide office in good standing and is covered by the local organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption, IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements.
(j)
Multiple listing prohibited.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, once an organization is deemed eligible, it is entitled to only one listing in the Charity List, regardless of the number of federations to which that organization belongs.
§ 950.402
Pledge form.
(a) The Director will provide guidance with regard to the data required for electronic pledge processing.
(b) An employee may not make a designation to an organization not listed in the Charity List. All pledges must be designated to specific CFC participating organization(s). No undesignated pledges will be allowed.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 950.501
Release of contributor information.
(a) The pledge form, designed pursuant to § 950.402, must allow a contributor to indicate if the contributor will allow his or her name, contribution amount, and home contact information to be forwarded to the charitable organization or organizations designated.
(b) The pledge form shall permit a contributor to specify which information, if any, he or she wishes released to organizations receiving his or her donations.
(c) It is the responsibility of the CCA to forward the contributor information for those who have indicated that they wish this information to be released to the recipient organization directly, if the organization is independent, and to the organization's federation if the organization is a member of a federation. The contributor information must be forwarded as soon as practicable after the completion of the campaign, but in no case later than a date to be determined by OPM. The date will be part of the annual timetable issued by the Director under § 950.601(b). The federation is responsible for ensuring the information is released to the appropriate member organization. The CCA may not sell or make any other use of this information. Federations may not retain donor information for their own use unless the donor made a direct designation to the federation itself. This policy also prohibits the sharing of donor information, even free of charge.
§ 950.502
Solicitation methods.
(a) Employee solicitations shall be conducted during duty hours using methods that permit true voluntary giving and shall reserve to the individual the option of disclosing any gift or keeping it confidential. Campaign kick-offs, victory events, awards, and other non-solicitation events to build support for the CFC are encouraged.
(b) Special CFC events are permitted during the campaign if approved by the appropriate agency head or government official, consistent with agency ethics regulations. No costs for food or entertainment at a special event may be charged to the CFC. CFC special events must be undertaken in the spirit of generating interest in the CFC and be open to all individuals without regard to whether an individual participates in the CFC. If prizes are offered, they must be modest in nature and value. Examples of appropriate prizes may include opportunities for lunch with agency officials, agency parking spaces for a specific time period, and gifts of minimal financial value. Any special CFC event and associated prize or gift must be approved in advance by the Agency's ethics official to ensure that the special event is consistent with Office of Government Ethics regulations and its own regulations and policy. No funds may be raised or collected at these events.
§ 950.503
Sanctions and penalties.
(a)(1) The Director may impose sanctions or penalties on a federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator for violating these regulations, other applicable provisions of law, or any directive or instruction from the Director. The Director will determine the appropriate sanction and/or penalty, up to and including expulsion from the CFC. In determining the appropriate sanction and/or penalty, the Director will consider previous violations, harm to Federal employee confidence in the CFC, and any other relevant factors. A federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator will be notified in writing of the Director's intent to sanction and/or penalize and will have 10 business days from the date of receipt of the notice to submit a written response. The Director's final decision will be communicated in writing to the federation, charitable organization or marketing organization.
(2) The Director may withdraw federation status with respect to a National/International, International or Local federation that makes a false certification or fails to comply with any directive of the Director, or to respond in a timely fashion to a request by the Director for information or cooperation, including with respect to an investigation or in the settlement of disbursements. As stated in § 950.301(d), failure to meet minimum federation eligibility requirements shall not be
deemed to be a withdrawal of federation status subject to a hearing on the record. Eligibility decisions shall follow the procedures in § 950.301(f). A federation will be notified in writing of the Director's intent to withdraw federation status for a period of up to one campaign and will have 10 business days from the date of receipt of the notice to submit a written response. On receipt of the response, or in the absence of a timely response, the Director or representative shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing. The federation shall be notified at least 10 business days in advance of the hearing. A hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer designated by the Director unless it is waived in writing by the federation. After the hearing is held, or after the Director's receipt of the federation's written waiver of the hearing, the Director shall make a final decision on the record, taking into consideration the recommendation submitted by the hearing officer. The Director's final decision will be communicated in writing to the federation.
(3) A federation, charitable organization or Outreach Coordinator sanctioned or penalized under any provision of these regulations must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that it has taken corrective action to resolve the reason for sanction and/or penalty and has implemented reasonable and appropriate controls to ensure that the situation will not occur again prior to being allowed to participate in subsequent CFCs.
(b) At the Director's discretion, CCAs, payroll offices and Federations may be directed to suspend distribution of current and future CFC donations from Federal employees to recipient organizations. CCAs, payroll offices and Federations shall immediately place suspended contributions in an interest bearing account until directed to do otherwise.
§ 950.504
Records retention.
Federations, CCAs and other participants in the CFC shall retain documents pertinent to the campaign for at least three completed campaigns. For example, documentation regarding the 2014 campaign must be retained through the completion of the 2016, 2017 and 2018 campaigns (
i.e.
until early 2020). Documents requested by OPM must be made available within 10 business days of the request.
§ 950.505
Sanctions compliance certification.
Each federation, federation member and independent organization applying for participation in the CFC must, as a condition of participation, complete a certification that it is in compliance with all statutes, Executive orders, and regulations restricting or prohibiting U.S. persons from engaging in transactions and dealings with countries, entities or individuals subject to economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Should any change in circumstances pertaining to this certification occur at any time, the organization must notify OPM's Office of CFC immediately. OPM will take such steps as it deems appropriate under the circumstances, including, but not limited to, notifying OFAC and/or other enforcement authorities of such change, suspending disbursement of CFC funds not yet disbursed, retracting (to the extent practicable) CFC funds already disbursed, and suspending or expelling the organization from the CFC.

# Subpart F—CFC Timetable
§ 950.601
Campaign schedule.
(a) The Combined Federal Campaign will be conducted according to the following timetable.
(1) During a period between December and January, as determined by the Director, OPM will accept applications from organizations seeking to be listed on the Charity List.
(2) The Director will determine a date after the closing of the receipt of applications by which the Director will issue notices to each applicant organization of the results of the Director's review. The date will be part of the annual timetable issued by the Director under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The Director will determine the dates of the solicitation period, not to begin prior to September 1 or end later than January 15 of each year.
(b) The Director will issue a timetable annually for accepting and processing applications. The Director will issue the timetable for a campaign no later than October 31 of the year preceding the campaign.

# Subpart G—Payroll Withholding
§ 950.701
Payroll allotment.
The policies and procedures in this section are authorized for payroll withholding operations in accordance with the Office of Personnel Management Pay Administration regulations in part 550 of this Title.
(a)
Applicability.
Voluntary payroll allotments will be authorized by all Federal departments and agencies for payment of charitable contributions to local CFC organizations.
(b)
Allotters.
The allotment privilege will be made available to Federal personnel as follows:
(1) Employees whose net pay regularly is sufficient to cover the allotment are eligible. An employee serving under an appointment limited to 1 year or less may make an allotment to a CFC when an appropriate official of the employing Federal agency determines that the employee will continue employment for a period sufficient to justify an allotment. This includes military reservists, National Guard, and other part-time and intermittent employees who are regularly employed.
(2) Members of the Uniformed Services are eligible, excluding those on only short-term assignment (less than 3 months).
(c)
Authorization.
Allotments will be totally voluntary and will be based upon contributor's individual authorization.
(1) The CFC Pledge Form, in conformance with § 950.402, is the only form for authorization of the CFC payroll allotment and may be reproduced. The pledge forms and official Charity List will be made available to employees electronically when charitable contributions are solicited.
(2) The electronic pledge is transmitted to the contributor's servicing payroll office in real time via the centralized pledge system.
(d)
Duration.
Authorization of allotments will be in the form of a term allotment. Term authorizations will be in effect for 1 full year—26, 24, or 12 pay periods depending on the allotter's pay schedule—starting with the first pay period after January 15 and ending with the last pay period that includes January 15 of the following year. Three months of employment is considered the minimum amount of time that is reasonable for establishing an allotment.
(e)
Amount.
Allotters will make a single allotment that is apportioned into equal amounts for deductions each pay period during the year.
(1) The minimum amount of the allotment will not be less than $1 per payday per charitable organization, with no restriction on the size of the increment above that minimum.
(2) No change of amount will be authorized for term allotments.
(3) No deduction will be made for any period in which the allotter's net pay, after all legal and previously authorized deductions, is insufficient to cover the CFC allotment. No adjustment will be made in subsequent periods to make up for missed deductions.
(f)
Discontinuance.
Term allotments will be discontinued automatically on expiration of the 1 year withholding period, or on the death, retirement, or separation of the allotter from the Federal service, whichever is earlier.
(1) An allotter may revoke a term authorization at any time by requesting it in writing from the payroll office. Discontinuance will be effective the first pay period beginning after receipt of the written revocation in the payroll office.
(2) A discontinued allotment will not be reinstated.
(g)
Transfer.
When an allotter moves to another organizational unit, whether in the same office or a different Department or agency, his or her allotment authorization must be transferred to the new payroll office.

# Subpart H—Accounting and Distribution
§ 950.801
Accounting and distribution.
(a)
Remittance.
One electronic funds of the transfer (EFT) will be transmitted by the payroll office each pay
period, in the gross amount of deductions on the basis of current authorizations, to the CCA.
(1) The EFT will be accompanied by an electronic transmittal identifying the Federal agency, the dates of the pay period, the pay period number, employee names and deduction amounts per individual employee.
(b)
Accounting.
(1) OPM may require Federal payroll offices to oversee the establishment of individual allotment accounts, the deductions each pay period, and the reconciliation of employee accounts in accordance with agency and Federal Accounting Standards and Office of Management and Budget requirements. OPM may further require that Federal payroll offices ensure the accuracy of remittances, as supported by current allotment authorizations, and internal accounting and auditing requirements.
(2) The CCA shall notify the federations, national and international organizations, and local organizations as soon as practicable after the completion of the campaign, but in no case later than a date to be determined by OPM, of the amounts, if any, designated to them and their member agencies. The date will be part of the annual timetable issued by the Director under § 950.601(b). The CCA is also responsible for distributing credit card, debit card, e-check, check and money order receipts and payroll deductions transmitted by the payroll offices. It is responsible for the accuracy of disbursements it transmits to recipients. The CCA will distribute all CFC receipts beginning April 1, and monthly thereafter. It shall remit the contributions to each organization or to the federation, if any, of which the organization is a member. At the close of each disbursement period, the CFC account shall have a balance of zero, based on the last reconciled bank statement.
(3) Federated organizations, or their designated agents, are responsible for:
(i) The accuracy of distribution among the charitable organizations of remittances from the CCA; and
(ii) Arrangements for an independent audit conducted by a certified public accountant agreed upon by the participating charitable organizations.
Pt. 960

# PART 960—FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARDS
Sec.
960.101
Definitions.
960.102
Authority and status.
960.103
Location.
960.104
Membership.
960.105
Officers and organization.
960.106
OPM leadership.
960.107
Authorized activities.
960.108
Additional rules and directives.

# Authority:
Memorandum of the President for Heads of Departments and Agencies (November 10, 1961).

# Source:
49 FR 34194, Aug. 29, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.101
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a) The term
Director
means the Director of the United States Office of Personnel Management.
(b) The term
Executive agency
means a department, agency, or independent establishment in the Executive Branch.
(c) The term
metropolitan area
means a geographic zone surrounding a major city, as defined and delimited from time to time by the Director.
(d) The term
principal area officer
means, with respect to an Executive agency, the senior official of the Executive agency who is located in a metropolitan area and who has no superior official within that metropolitan area other than in the Regional Office of the Executive agency. Where an Executive agency maintains facilities of more than one bureau or other subdivision within the metropolitan area, and where the heads of those facilities are in separate chains of command within the Executive agency, then the Executive agency may have more than one principal area officer.
(e) The term
principal regional officer
means, with respect to an Executive agency, the senior official in a Regional Office of the Executive agency.
(f) The term
special representative
means, with respect to an Executive agency, an official who is not subject to the supervision of a principal regional officer or a principal area officer and who is specifically designated by the head of the Executive agency to serve as the personal representative of the head of the Executive agency.
§ 960.102
Authority and status.
Federal Executive Boards are established by direction of the President in order to strengthen the management and administration of Executive Branch activities in selected centers of field operations. Federal Executive Boards are organized and function under the authority of the Director.
§ 960.103
Location.
Federal Executive Boards have been established and shall continue in the following metropolitan areas: Albuquerque-Santa Fe, Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas-Fort Worth, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Houston, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New Orleans, New York, Newark, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Portland, St. Louis, San Francisco, and Seattle. The Director may, from time to time, dissolve, merge, or divide any of the foregoing Federal Executive Boards, or establish new Federal Executive Boards, as he may deem necessary, proper or convenient.
§ 960.104
Membership.
(a)
Presidential Directive.
The President has directed the heads of agencies to arrange for the leading officials of their respective agencies' field activities to participate personally in the work of Federal Executive Boards.
(b)
Members.
The head of every Executive agency shall designate, by title of office, the principal regional officer, if any, and the principal area officer or officers, if any, who shall represent the agency on each Federal Executive Board; and by name and title of office, the special representative, if any, who shall represent the head of the agency on each Federal Executive Board. Such designations shall be made in writing and transmitted to the Director, and may be transmitted through the Chairmen of the Federal Executive Boards. Designations may be amended at any time by the head of the Executive agency.
(c)
Alternate Members.
Each member of a Federal Executive Board may designate an alternate member, who shall attend meetings and otherwise serve in the absence of the member. An alternate member shall be the deputy or principal assistant to the member or another senior official of the member's organization.
§ 960.105
Officers and organization.
(a)
By-Laws.
A Federal Executive Board shall adopt by-laws or other rules for its internal governance, subject to the approval of the Director. Such by-laws and other rules may reflect the particular needs, resources, and customs of each Federal Executive Board, provided that they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part or with the directives of the President or the Director. To the extent that such by-laws and other rules conflict with these provisions or the directives of the President or the Director, such by-laws and other rules shall be null and void.
(b)
Chairman.
Each Federal Executive Board shall have a Chairman, who shall be elected by the members from among their number, and who shall serve for a term of office not to exceed one year.
(c)
Staff.
As they deem necessary and proper, members shall, from time to time, designate personnel from their respective organizations to serve as the staff, or otherwise to participate in the activities, of the Federal Executive Board. Other personnel may be engaged, by appointment, contract, or otherwise, only with the approval of the Director.
(d) Unless otherwise expressly provided by law, by directive of the President or the Director, or by the by-laws of the Federal Executive Board, every committee, subcommittee council, and other sub-unit of the Federal Executive Board, and every affiliation of the Federal Executive Board with external organizations, shall expire upon expiration of the term of office of the Chairman. Such a committee, subcommittee, council, other sub-unit, or affiliation may be reestablished or renewed by affirmative action of the Federal Executive Board.
(e)
Board Actions.
Actions of a Federal Executive Board shall be taken only with the approval of a majority of the members thereof. This authority may not be delegated. All activities of
a Federal Executive Board shall conform to applicable laws and shall reflect prudent uses of official time and funds.
§ 960.106
OPM leadership.
(a)
Role of the Director.
The Director is responsible to the President for the organizational and programmatic activities of the Federal Executive Boards. The Director shall direct and oversee the operations of Federal Executive Boards consistent with law and with the directives of the President. He may, from time to time, consult with, and require the advice of, the Chairman, members, and staff of the Federal Executive Boards.
(b)
Role of the Director's Regional Representatives.
The Chairman of each Federal Executive Board shall report to the Director through the Director's Regional Representative, an official of the Office of Personnel Management. The Director's Regional Representatives shall oversee the activities of, and periodically visit and meet with, the Federal Executive Boards.
(c)
Communications.
The Office of Personnel Management shall maintain channels of communication from the Director through the Director's Regional Representatives to the Chairmen of the Federal Executive Boards, and between and among the Federal Executive Boards through the Director and the Director's Regional Representatives. Any Executive agency may use these channels to communicate with the Director and with the Federal Executive Boards. Chairmen of Federal Executive Boards may communicate with the Director on recommendations for action at the national level, on significant management problems that cannot be addressed at the local level, and on other matters of interest to the Executive Branch.
(d)
Reports.
Each Federal Executive Board shall transmit to the Director, over the signature of its Chairman, an annual work plan and an annual report to the Director on the significant programs and activities of the Federal Executive Board in each fiscal year. Each work plan shall set forth the proposed general agenda for the succeeding fiscal year. The work plan shall be subject to the approval of the Director. Each annual report shall describe and evaluate the preceding fiscal year's activities. The work plan for Fiscal Year 1985 shall be submitted on or before July 1, 1984, and the annual report for Fiscal Year 1984 shall be submitted on or before January 1, 1985. Subsequent annual reports shall be submitted on or before January 1 and subsequent annual work plans shall be submitted on or before July 1 in every year thereafter. In addition, members of Federal Executive Boards shall keep the headquarters of their respective Executive agencies informed of their activities by timely reports through appropriate agency channels.
(e)
Conferences.
The Director may, from time to time, convene regional and national conferences of Chairmen and other representatives of Federal Executive Boards.
§ 960.107
Authorized activities.
(a) Each Federal Executive Board shall serve as an instrument of outreach for the national headquarters of the Executive Branch to Executive Branch activities in the metropolitan area. Each Federal Executive Board shall consider common management and program problems and develop cooperative arrangements that will promote the general objectives of the Government and of the several Executive agencies in the metropolitan area. Efforts of members, alternates, and staff in those areas shall be made with the guidance and approval of the Director; within the range of the delegated authority and discretion they hold; within the resources available; and consistent with the missions of the Executive agencies involved.
(b) Each Federal Executive Board shall: (1) Provide a forum for the exchange of information between Washington and the field and among field elements in the metropolitan area about programs and management methods and problems; (2) develop local coordinated approaches to the development and operation of programs that have common characteristics; (3) communicate management initiatives and other concerns from Washington to the field to achieve better mutual understanding and support; and (4) refer
problems that cannot be solved locally to the national level.
(c) Subject to the guidance of the Director, the Federal Executive Boards shall be responsible for:
(1) Presidential initiatives on management reforms; personnel initiatives of the Office of Personnel Management; programs led by the Office of Management and Budget, such as Reform '88 and the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency; and facilities planning led by the General Services Administration;
(2) The local Combined Federal Campaign, under the direction of the Director;
(3) The sharing of technical knowledge and resources in finance, internal auditing, personnel management, automated data processing applications, interagency use of computer installations, and similar commonly beneficial activities;
(4) The pooling of resources to provide, as efficiently as possible, and at the least possible cost to the taxpayers, common services such as employee first-aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (“CPR”), CPR training, preventative health programs, assistance to the aging, blood donor programs, and savings bond drives;
(5) Encouragement of employee initiative and better performance through special recognition and other incentive programs, and provision of assistance in the implementation and upgrading of performance management systems;
(6) Emergency operations, such as under hazardous weather conditions; responding to blood donation needs; and communicating related leave policies;
(7) Recognition of the service of American Veterans and dissemination of information relating to programs and benefits available for veterans in the Federal service; and
(8) Such other programs, projects, and operations as may be set forth in the annual work plan approved by the Director.
(d) The Office of Personnel Management shall advise Federal Executive Boards on activities in the areas of performance appraisal and incentives, interagency training programs, the educational development of Government employees, improvement of labor-management relations, equal employment opportunity, the Federal Women's Program, the Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program, the Hispanic Employment Program, the Veterans Employment Program, and selective placement programs for handicapped individuals.
(e) The Director may, from time to time, direct one or more of the Federal Executive Boards to address such specific programs or undertake such cooperative activities as he may deem necessary or proper.
§ 960.108
Additional rules and directives.
The Director may, from time to time, issue further rules and guidance for, and directives to, the Federal Executive Boards.
[49 FR 34194, Aug. 29, 1984, as amended at 66 FR 66712, Dec. 27, 2001]
PART 990 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REGULATIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEES OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—OPM EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
Sec.
1001.101
In addition to this part, what other rules of conduct apply to Office of Personnel Management employees?
1001.102
What are the Privacy Act rules of conduct?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a, 7301.

# Source:
71 FR 43345, Aug. 1, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.101
In addition to this part, what other rules of conduct apply to Office of Personnel Management employees?
In addition to the regulations contained in this part, employees of the Office of Personnel Management should refer to:
(a) The Executive Branch Financial Disclosure, Qualified Trusts, and Certificates of Divestiture regulations at 5 CFR part 2634;
(b) The Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635;
(c) The Limitations on Outside Earned Income, Employment and Affiliations for Certain Noncareer Employees regulations at 5 CFR part 2636;
(d) Regulations Concerning Post Employment Conflict of Interest at 5 CFR part 2637;
(e) Post-employment Conflict of Interest Restrictions regulations at 5 CFR part 2641;
(f) The Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Office of Personnel Management at 5 CFR part 4501;
(g) The Employee Responsibilities and Conduct regulations at 5 CFR part 735;
(h) The restrictions upon use of political referrals in employment matters at 5 U.S.C. 3303.
§ 1001.102
What are the Privacy Act rules of conduct?
(a) An employee shall avoid any action that results in the appearance of using public office to collect or gain access to personal data about individuals beyond that required by or authorized for the performance of duties.
(b) An employee shall not use any personal data about individuals for any purpose other than as is required and authorized in the performance of assigned duties. An employee shall not disclose any such information to other agencies or persons not expressly authorized to receive or have access to such information. An employee shall make any authorized disclosures in accordance with established regulations and procedures.
(c) Each employee who has access to or is engaged in any way in the handling of information subject to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, shall be familiar with the regulations of this subsection as well as the pertinent provisions of the Privacy Act relating to the treatment of such information.
PARTS 1002-1199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts, and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
5 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
5 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
752 Authority citation revised
65983
752.101—752.104 (Subpart A) Added
65983
752.201 (c)(4) and (5) revised; (c)(6) added
65985
752.202 Heading revised; (c) through (f) added
65985
752.203 (b) revised; (h) added
65985
752.401 (b)(14), (15), and (c)(2) revised; (b)(16) added
65986
752.402 Amended
65986
752.403 Heading revised; (c) through (f) added
65986
752.404 (b)(1) and (3)(iv) revised; (g)(3) added
65986
752.407 Added
65986
752.601 (b)(2) revised
65987
752.602 Amended
65987
752.603 Heading revised; (c) through (f) added
65987
752.604 (b)(1) and (2)(iv) revised; (g)(3) added
65987
752.607 Added
65987
831 Authority citation revised
20576
831.202 Heading, (a), (b)(1), and (3) revised; (e) and (f) added
20576
841.403 (b) revised; (c) through (h) redesignated as (d) through (i); (c) added
59378
842 Authority citation revised
20577
842.110 Added
20577
843 Authority citation revised
59379
843.309 (b)(2) revised
59379
843.301—843.314 (Subpart C) Appendix A revised
59379
870.101 Amended
60048
870.204 (a) revised
60048
870.703 (e)(1) introductory text revised; (e)(1)(vii) added
60048
2021
5 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
831 Authority citation revised
20436
831.105 (k) added
20437
831.2107 (c) added
20437
831.2401—831.2404 (Subpart X) Added
20437
831.2501—831.2504 (Subpart Y) Added
20437
842 Authority citation revised
20438
842.305 (k) added
20438
842.307 (e) added
20438
842.1101—842.1104 (Subpart K) Added
20438
842.1201—842.1204 (Subpart L) Added
20438
843.309 (b)(2) revised
52952
843.301—843.314 (Subpart C) Appendix A revised
52952
849 Added
57012
870 Authority citation revised
17273
870.106 Added
17273
875 Authority citation revised
17273
875.302 (c) added
17273
890 Authority citation revised
17273, 49466
890.107 (e) added; interim
36947
890.113 Added
17274
890.114 Added; interim
36947
890.114 (a) revised; (d) added
56092
890.114 Heading, (a), and (d) revised; (f) added; interim
66696
890.301 Heading revised; (n) heading and (o) heading added
17274
890.1402 (a) amended; interim
49466
890.1402 Regulation at 86 FR 49466 comment period extended
60357
890.1404 (a)(1), (2), (b)(5), (9), and (e)(1) revised; interim
49466
890.1404 Regulation at 86 FR 49466 comment period extended
60357
894 Authority citation revised
17274
894.405 (c) added
17274
894.406 (c) added
17274
894.601 (b) revised
17274
2022
5 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
752 Authority citation revised
67782
752.101 (b) amended
67782
752.103 (d)(3) removed
67782
752.104 Removed
67782
752.202 Heading revised; (c) through (f) removed
67782
752.203 (h) removed
67782
752.401 (b)(15) and (16) revised; (b)(17) added; (d)(5) removed; (d)(6) through (13) redesignated as new (d)(5) through (12)
67783
752.402 Amended
67783
752.403 Heading revised; (c) through (f) removed
67783
752.404 (b)(1) revised; (g)(3) removed
67783
752.407 Removed
67783
752.602 Amended
67783
752.603 Heading revised; (c) through (f) removed
67783
752.604 (b)(1) revised; (g)(3) removed
67783
752.607 Removed
67783
875.101 Amended
68597
875.102 Revised
68597
875.107 (b) and (c) amended; (d) and (e) added
68597
875.109 Revised
68597
875.110 Added
68597
875.203 Revised
68598
875.204 (c) revised
68598
875.206 Removed
68598
875.207 Revised
68598
875.209 (a) revised
68598
875.210 (b)(1) revised
68598
875.211 Revised
68598
875.213 Revised
68598
875.401 Revised
68598
875.402 Revised
68598
875.403 Revised
68598
875.404 Revised
68598
875.405 Revised
68599
875.406 (a)(1) revised
68599
875.410 Revised
68599
875.413 Revised
68599
890.1402 Regulation at 86 FR 49466 confirmed
21739
890.1404 Regulation at 86 FR 49466 confirmed
21739
2023
5 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
731 Authority citation revised
60330
731.103 (d)(1) revised
60330
754 Added
60330
841 Authority citation revised
31468
841.103 Amended
31468
841.503 Revised
31468
842 Authority citation revised
31468
842.406 Revised
31469
843.301—843.314 (Subpart C) Appendix A revised
66680
890 Authority citation revised
20402
890.101 (a) introductory text revised; section amended
20402
890.115 Added
20403
890.301 (p) added
20403
890.302 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised
20403
890.303 (j) added
20403
890.308 (i) added
20403
890.501 (b) introductory text revised
20403
890.1601—890.1614 (Subpart P) Added
20403
894.101 Amended
47745, 47749
894.105 (b) and (c) revised
47746
894.201 Revised
47746
894.202 Heading revised
47746
894.203 Removed; new section redesignated from 894.204 and revised
47746
894.204 Redesignated as 894.203
47746
894.301 Heading revised; (b) and (c)(2) amended; (d) added
47746
894.301 (c)(1) amended
47749
894.302 Introductory text, (f), and (g) revised; undesignated text following introductory text removed; (e)(3) and (4) amended; (e)(5), (6), (l), and (m) added
47746
894.302 (d), (k)(1), and (2) amended
47749
894.308 (a), (b) introductory text, (2), and (3) amended
47749
894.401 (a) revised
47747
894.403 (a) and (b)(1) revised; (b)(3) through (5) amended; (b)(6) added
47747
894.404 Amended
47749
894.405 (a) and (c) amended
47749
894.406 (c) amended
47749
894.501 (e) through (g) redesignated as (f), (g), and (i); (b), (d), new (g), and new (i) revised; new (e) and (h) added
47747
894.502 (b) through (e) revised
47748
894.504 (d) and (e) redesignated as (e) and (f); new (d) added; new (f) revised
47748
894.507 (a)(3) revised
47748
894.510 (a) introductory text revised; (a)(1) and (2) amended; (a)(3) added
47748
894.510 (c)(1) amended
47749
894.511 (b) revised
47748
894.601 (a) revised; (i) added
47748
894.601 (b) amended
47749
894.602 Revised
47748
894.702 Revised
47749
894.704 Heading, (a), and (b) revised; (c) amended
47749
894.901 (a) and (b) amended
47749
920 Added
60332
2024
5 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
731 Authority citation revised
102691
731 Heading revised; eff. 1-17-25
102691
731.101—731.106 (Subpart A) Revised; eff. 1-17-25
102691
731.201—731.206 (Subpart B) Revised; eff. 1-17-25
102695
731.301—731.304 (Subpart C) Heading revised; eff. 1-17-25
102696
731.302 (c) revised; eff. 1-17-25
102696
731.401—731.404 (Subpart D) Heading revised; eff. 1-17-25
102696
731.402 (c) revised; eff. 1-17-25
102696
731.501 (Subpart E) Heading revised; eff. 1-17-25
102696
731.601 (Subpart F) Removed; eff. 1-17-25
102696
752 Authority citation revised
102295
752.201 (b), (c)(5), and (6) revised; (c)(7) added
25047
752.401 (c) and (d)(2) revised
25048
752.404 (b)(3)(iv) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102295
752.604 (b)(2)(iv) revised; eff. 1-16-25
102295
890.107 (f) added
85028
890.1602 (c) amended
85028
890.1604 Revised
37078
890.1604 (c) and (d)(3) added; (f) revised
85028
890.1605 (c) revised
85028
890.1606 (e) revised
37079
890.1606 (d) revised
85029
890.1607 Added
85029
890.1608 (a), (b)(2), and (5) revised; (b) introductory text and (6) through (9) added
85029
890.1612 (f) and (g) added
85030
890.1613 Heading, (a), (c), and (e) revised
85031
890.1614 (a) revised
85031
890.1615 Added
85031
890.1616 Added
85031
900 Policy statement
48821
930.201 (e)(5) revised
5756
930.205 (e) amended; (f) revised; (g) through (j) redesignated as (h) through (k); new (g) added
5756
950 Notification
102696
○
