No national bank or its IAPs may in any way imply or represent that it will engage in any of the acts or practices described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
No Federal government endorsement.
No national bank or its IAPs may represent or imply in any manner whatsoever that any retail forex transaction or retail forex product has been sponsored, recommended, or approved by the OCC, the Federal government, or any agency thereof.
(d)
Assuming or sharing of liability from bank error.
This section does not prevent a national bank from assuming or sharing in the losses resulting from the national bank's error or mishandling of a retail forex transaction.
(e)
Certain guaranties unaffected.
This section does not affect any guarantee entered into prior to the effective date of this part, but this section does apply to any extension, modification, or renewal thereof entered into after such date.
§ 48.12
Authorization to trade.
(a)
Specific authorization required.
No national bank may directly or indirectly effect a retail forex transaction for the account of any retail forex customer unless, before the retail forex transaction occurs, the retail forex customer specifically authorized the national bank to effect the retail forex transaction.
(b)
Requirements for specific authorization.
A retail forex transaction is “specifically authorized” for purposes of this section if the retail forex customer specifies:
(1) The precise retail forex transaction to be effected;
(2) The exact amount of the foreign currency to be purchased or sold; and
(3) In the case of an option, the identity of the foreign currency or contract that underlies the option.
§ 48.13
Trading and operational standards.
(a)
Internal rules, procedures, and controls required.
A national bank engaging in retail forex transactions must establish and implement internal policies, procedures, and controls designed, at a minimum, to:
(1) Ensure, to the extent reasonable, that each retail forex transaction that is executable at or near the price that the national bank has quoted to the retail forex customer is entered for execution before any retail forex transaction for:
(i) A proprietary account;
(ii) An account for which a related person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account;
(iii) An account in which a related person has an interest, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account; or
(iv) An account in which a related person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account;
(2) Prevent national-bank related persons from placing orders, directly or indirectly, with another person in a manner designed to circumvent the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(3) Fairly and objectively establish settlement prices for retail forex transactions.
(b)
Disclosure of retail forex transactions.
No national bank engaging in retail forex transactions may disclose that an order of another person is being held by the national bank, unless the disclosure is necessary to the effective execution of such order or the disclosure is made at the request of the OCC.
(c)
Handling of retail forex accounts of related persons of retail forex counterparties.
No national bank engaging in retail forex transactions may knowingly handle the retail forex account of an employee of another retail forex counterparty's retail forex business unless the national bank:
(1) Receives written authorization from a person designated by the other retail forex counterparty with responsibility for the surveillance over the account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(2) Prepares immediately upon receipt of an order for the account a written record of the order, including the account identification and order number, and records thereon to the nearest minute, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time the order was received; and
(3) Transmits on a regular basis to the other retail forex counterparty copies of all statements for the account and of all written records prepared upon the receipt of orders for the account pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Related person of national bank establishing account at another retail forex counterparty.
No related person of a national bank working in the national bank's retail forex business may have an account, directly or indirectly, with another retail forex counterparty unless the other retail forex counterparty:
(1) Receives written authorization to open and maintain the account from a person designated by the national bank with responsibility for the surveillance over the account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(2) Transmits on a regular basis to the national bank copies of all statements for the account and of all written records prepared by the other retail forex counterparty upon receipt of orders for the account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(e)
Prohibited trading practices.
No national bank engaging in retail forex transactions may:
(1) Enter into a retail forex transaction, to be executed pursuant to a market or limit order at a price that is not at or near the price at which other retail forex customers, during that same time period, have executed retail forex transactions with the national bank;
(2) Adjust or alter prices for a retail forex transaction after the transaction has been confirmed to the retail forex customer;
(3) Provide to a retail forex customer a new bid price for a retail forex transaction that is higher than its previous bid without providing a new asked price that is also higher than its previous asked price by a similar amount;
(4) Provide to a retail forex customer a new bid price for a retail forex transaction that is lower than its previous bid without providing a new asked price that is also lower than its previous asked price by a similar amount; or
(5) Establish a new position for a retail forex customer (except one that offsets an existing position for that retail forex customer) where the national bank holds outstanding orders of other retail forex customers for the same currency pair at a comparable price.
§ 48.14
Supervision.
(a)
Supervision by the national bank.
A national bank engaging in retail forex transactions must diligently supervise the handling by its officers, employees, and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) of all retail forex accounts carried, operated, or advised by at the national bank and all activities of its officers, employees, and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) relating to its retail forex business.
(b)
Supervision by officers, employees, or agents.
An officer, employee, or agent of a national bank must diligently supervise his or her subordinates' handling of all retail forex accounts at the national bank and all the subordinates' activities relating to the national bank's retail forex business.
§ 48.15
Notice of transfers.
(a)
Prior notice generally required.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a national bank must provide a retail forex customer with 30 days' prior notice of any assignment of any position or transfer of any account of the retail forex customer. The notice
must include a statement that the retail forex customer is not required to accept the proposed assignment or transfer and may direct the national bank to liquidate the positions of the retail forex customer or transfer the account to a retail forex counterparty of the retail forex customer's selection.
(b)
Exceptions.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to transfers:
(1) Requested by the retail forex customer;
(2) Made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver or conservator under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or
(3) Otherwise authorized by applicable law.
(c)
Obligations of transferee national bank.
A national bank to which retail forex accounts or positions are assigned or transferred under paragraph (a) of this section must provide to the affected retail forex customers the risk disclosure statements and forms of acknowledgment required by this part and receive the required signed acknowledgments within 60 days of such assignments or transfers. This requirement does not apply if the national bank has clear written evidence that the retail forex customer has received and acknowledged receipt of the required disclosure statements.
§ 48.16
Customer dispute resolution.
(a)
Voluntary submission of claims to dispute or settlement procedures.
No national bank may enter into any agreement or understanding with a retail forex customer in which the customer agrees, prior to the time a claim or grievance arises, to submit such claim or grievance to any settlement procedure unless the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) Signing the agreement is not a condition for the customer to use the services offered by the national bank.
(2) If the agreement is contained as a clause or clauses of a broader agreement, the customer separately endorses the clause or clauses.
(3) The agreement advises the retail forex customer that, at such time as the customer notifies the national bank that the customer intends to submit a claim to arbitration, or at such time the national bank notifies the customer of its intent to submit a claim to arbitration, the customer will have the opportunity to choose a person qualified in dispute resolution to conduct the proceeding.
(4) The agreement must acknowledge that the national bank will pay any incremental fees that may be assessed in connection with the dispute resolution, unless it is determined in the proceeding that the retail forex customer has acted in bad faith in initiating the proceeding.
(5) The agreement must include the following language printed in large boldface type:
Two forums exist for the resolution of disputes related to retail forex transactions: civil court litigation and arbitration conducted by a private organization. The opportunity to settle disputes by arbitration may in some cases provide benefits to customers, including the ability to obtain an expeditious and final resolution of disputes without incurring substantial cost. Each customer must individually examine the relative merits of arbitration and consent to this arbitration agreement must be voluntary.
By signing this agreement, you: (1) May be waving your right to sue in a court of law; and (2) are agreeing to be bound by arbitration of any claims or counterclaims that you or [name of entity] may submit to arbitration under this agreement. In the event a dispute arises, you will be notified if [name of entity] intends to submit the dispute to arbitration.
You need not sign this agreement to open or maintain a retail forex account with [name of entity].
(b)
Election of forum.
(1) Within 10 business days after receipt of notice from the retail forex customer that the customer intends to submit a claim to arbitration, the national bank must provide the customer with a list of persons qualified in dispute resolution.
(2) The customer must, within 45 days after receipt of such list, notify the national bank of the person selected. The customer's failure to provide such notice must give the national bank the right to select a person from the list.
(c)
Enforceability.
A dispute settlement procedure may require parties using the procedure to agree, under applicable state law, submission agreement, or otherwise, to be bound by an award rendered in the procedure if the
agreement to submit the claim or grievance to the procedure complies with paragraph (a) of this section or the agreement to submit the claim or grievance to the procedure was made after the claim or grievance arose. Any award so rendered by the procedure will be enforceable in accordance with applicable law.
(d)
Time limits for submission of claims.
The dispute settlement procedure used by the parties may not include any unreasonably short limitation period foreclosing submission of a customer's claims or grievances or counterclaims.
(e)
Counterclaims.
A procedure for the settlement of a retail forex customer's claims or grievances against a national bank or employee thereof may permit the submission of a counterclaim in the procedure by a person against whom a claim or grievance is brought if the counterclaim:
(1) Arises out of the transaction or occurrence that is the subject of the retail forex customer's claim or grievance; and
(2) Does not require for adjudication the presence of essential witnesses, parties, or third persons over which the settlement process lacks jurisdiction.
[76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56097, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 48.17
Reservation of authority.
The OCC may modify the disclosure, recordkeeping, capital and margin, reporting, business conduct, documentation, or other standards or requirements under this part for a specific retail forex transaction or a class of retail forex transactions if the OCC determines that the modification is consistent with safety and soundness and the protection of retail forex customers.
PART 49 [RESERVED]
Pt. 50

# PART 50—LIQUIDITY RISK MEASUREMENT STANDARDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
50.1
Purpose and applicability.
50.2
Reservation of authority.
50.3
Definitions.
50.4
Certain operational requirements.

# Subpart B—Liquidity Coverage Ratio
50.10
Liquidity coverage ratio.

# Subpart C—High-Quality Liquid Assets
50.20
High-quality liquid asset criteria.
50.21
High-quality liquid asset amount.
50.22
Requirements for eligible high-quality liquid assets.

# Subpart D—Total Net Cash Outflow
50.30
Total net cash outflow amount.
50.31
Determining maturity.
50.32
Outflow amounts.
50.33
Inflow amounts.
50.34
Cash flows related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.

# Subpart E—Liquidity Coverage Shortfall
50.40
Liquidity coverage shortfall: Supervisory framework.

# Subpart F—Transitions
50.50
Transitions.
Subparts G-J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Net Stable Funding Ratio
50.100
Net stable funding ratio.
50.101
Determining maturity.
50.102
Rules of construction.
50.103
Calculation of available stable funding amount.
50.104
ASF factors.
50.105
Calculation of required stable funding amount.
50.106
RSF factors.
50.107
Calculation of NSFR derivatives amounts.
50.108
Funding related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
50.109
Rules for consolidation.

# Subpart L—Net Stable Funding Shortfall
50.110
NSFR shortfall: Supervisory framework.

# Subpart M—Transitions
50.120
Transitions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 481, 1818, 1828, and 1462
et seq.

# Source:
79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 50.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
This part establishes a minimum liquidity standard and a minimum stable funding standard for
certain national banks and Federal savings associations on a consolidated basis, as set forth herein.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association is subject to the minimum liquidity standard, minimum stable funding standard, and other requirements of this part if:
(i) It is a:
(A) GSIB depository institution supervised by the OCC;
(B) Category II national bank or Federal savings association; or
(C) Category III national bank or Federal savings association; or
(ii) The OCC has determined that application of this part is appropriate in light of the national bank's or Federal savings association's asset size, level of complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, affiliation with foreign or domestic covered entities, or risk to the financial system.
(2) This part does not apply to:
(i) A bridge financial company as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(3), or a subsidiary of a bridge financial company;
(ii) A new depository institution or a bridge depository institution, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(i); or
(iii) A Federal branch or agency as defined by 12 CFR 28.11.
(3) In making a determination under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 3.404.
[84 FR 59266, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 9207, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.2
Reservation of authority.
(a) The OCC may require a national bank or Federal savings association to hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity risk profile, if the OCC determines that the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity risks. In making determinations under this section, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 3.404.
(b) The OCC may require a national bank or Federal savings association to maintain an amount of available stable funding greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the national bank's or Federal savings association's stable funding, if the OCC determines that the national bank's or Federal savings association's stable funding requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the national bank's or Federal savings association's funding risks. In making determinations under this section, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 3.404.
(c) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the OCC under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient liquidity levels, deficient stable funding levels, or violations of law.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9207, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Affiliated depository institution
means with respect to a national bank or Federal savings association that is a depository institution, another depository institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is also a consolidated subsidiary.
Asset exchange
means a transaction in which, as of the calculation date, the counterparties have previously exchanged non-cash assets, and have each agreed to return such assets to each other at a future date. Asset exchanges do not include secured funding and secured lending transactions.
Average weighted short-term wholesale funding
means the average of the national bank's or Federal savings association's weighted short-term wholesale funding for each of the four most recent calendar quarters as reported quarterly on the FR Y-15 or, if the national bank or Federal savings association has not filed the FR Y-15 for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, for the most recent quarter or
averaged over the most recent quarters, as applicable.
Bank holding company
is defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
).
Brokered deposit
means any deposit held at the national bank or Federal savings association that is obtained, directly or indirectly, from or through the mediation or assistance of a deposit broker as that term is defined in section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831f(g)) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's regulations.
Brokered reciprocal deposit
means a brokered deposit that a national bank or Federal savings association receives through a deposit placement network on a reciprocal basis, such that:
(1) For any deposit received, the national bank or Federal savings association (as agent for the depositors) places the same amount with other depository institutions through the network; and
(2) Each member of the network sets the interest rate to be paid on the entire amount of funds it places with other network members.
Calculation date
means, for subparts B through J of this part, any date on which a national bank or Federal savings association calculates its liquidity coverage ratio under § 50.10, and for subparts K through M of this part, any date on which a national bank or Federal savings association calculates its net stable funding ratio under § 50.100.
Call Report
means the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income.
Carrying value
means, with respect to an asset, NSFR regulatory capital element, or NSFR liability, the value on the balance sheet of the national bank or Federal savings association, each as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Category II national bank or Federal savings association
means:
(1)(i) A national bank or Federal savings association that:
(A) Is a consolidated subsidiary of:
(
1
) A company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable;
(
2
) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5; or
(
3
) A depository institution that meets the criteria in paragraph (2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this definition; and
(B) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the national bank's or Federal savings association's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $10 billion or more.
(ii) If the national bank or Federal savings association has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this paragraph (1), a national bank or Federal savings association continues to be a Category II national bank or Federal savings association until the national bank or Federal savings association has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the national bank or Federal savings association is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of an entity described in paragraph (1)(i)(A)(
1
), (
2
), or (
3
) of this definition; or
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association that:
(i) Is not a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company; and
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $700 billion or more. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $700 billion. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) Cross-jurisdictional activity, calculated based on the average of its cross-jurisdictional activity for the four most recent calendar quarters, of $75 billion or more. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form.
(iii) After meeting the criteria in paragraphs (2)(i) and (ii) of this definition, a national bank or Federal savings association continues to be a Category II national bank or Federal savings association until the national bank or Federal savings association:
(A)(
1
) Has less than $700 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(
2
) Has less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form;
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(C) Is a GSIB depository institution.
Category III national bank or Federal savings association
means:
(1)(i) A national bank or Federal savings association that:
(A) Is a consolidated subsidiary of:
(
1
) A company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable; or
(
2
) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5; or
(
3
) A depository institution that meets the criteria in paragraph (2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this definition; and
(B) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the national bank's or Federal savings association's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $10 billion or more.
(ii) If the national bank or Federal savings association has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this paragraph (1), a national bank or Federal savings association continues to be a Category III national bank or Federal savings association until the national bank or Federal savings association has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the national bank or Federal savings association is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of an entity described in paragraph (1)(i)(A)(
1
), (
2
), or (
3
) of this definition; or
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association that:
(i) Is not a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company; and
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $250 billion or more. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) One or more of the following in paragraphs (2)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this definition, each measured as the average of the four most recent calendar quarters, or if the depository institution has not filed the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, Call Report, or FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, as applicable for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable:
(
i
) Total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more;
(
ii
) Off-balance sheet exposure, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the depository institution, as reported on the Call Report, equal to $75 billion or more; or
(
iii
) Weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more.
(iii) After meeting the criteria in paragraphs (2)(i) and (ii) of this definition, a national bank or Federal savings association continues to be a Category III national bank or Federal savings association until the national bank or Federal savings association:
(A)(
1
) Has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
2
) Has less than $75 billion in total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
3
) Has less than $75 billion in off-balance sheet exposure for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Off-balance sheet exposure is calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the depository institution, as reported on the Call Report; and
(
4
) Has less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(C) Is a Category II national bank or Federal savings bank; or
(D) Is a GSIB depository institution.
Client pool security
means a security that is owned by a customer of the national bank or Federal savings association that is not an asset of the national bank or Federal savings association, regardless of a national bank's or Federal savings association's hypothecation rights with respect to the security.
Collateralized deposit
means:
(1) A deposit of a public sector entity held at the national bank or Federal savings association that is required to be secured under applicable law by a lien on assets owned by the national bank or Federal savings association and that gives the depositor, as holder of the lien, priority over the assets in the event the national bank or Federal savings association enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(2) A deposit of a fiduciary account awaiting investment or distribution held at the national bank or Federal savings association for which the national bank or Federal savings association is a fiduciary and is required under 12 CFR 9.10(b) (national banks) or 12 CFR 150.300 through 150.320 (Federal savings associations) to set aside assets owned by the national bank or Federal savings association as security, which gives the depositor priority
over the assets in the event the national bank or Federal savings association enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding; or
(3) A deposit of a fiduciary account awaiting investment or distribution held at the national bank or Federal savings association for which the national bank's or Federal savings association's affiliated insured depository institution is a fiduciary and where the national bank or Federal savings association under 12 CFR 9.10(c) (national banks), 12 CFR 150.310 (Federal savings associations), or applicable state law (state member and nonmember banks, and state savings associations) has set aside assets owned by the national bank or Federal savings association as security, which gives the depositor priority over the assets in the event the national bank or Federal savings association enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding.
Committed
means, with respect to a credit or liquidity facility, that under the terms of the facility, it is not unconditionally cancelable.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Consolidated subsidiary
means a company that is consolidated on the balance sheet of a national bank or Federal savings association or other company under GAAP.
Controlled subsidiary
means, with respect to a company or a national bank or Federal savings association, a consolidated subsidiary or a company that otherwise meets the definition of “subsidiary” in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
Covered depository institution holding company
means a top-tier bank holding company or savings and loan holding company domiciled in the United States other than:
(1) A top-tier savings and loan holding company that is:
(i) A grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(c)(9)(A) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.
); and
(ii) As of June 30 of the previous calendar year, derived 50 percent or more of its total consolidated assets or 50 percent of its total revenues on an enterprise-wide basis (as calculated under GAAP) from activities that are not financial in nature under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k));
(2) A top-tier depository institution holding company that is an insurance underwriting company;
(3)(i) A top-tier depository institution holding company that, as of June 30 of the previous calendar year, held 25 percent or more of its total consolidated assets in subsidiaries that are insurance underwriting companies (other than assets associated with insurance for credit risk); and
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (3)(i) of this definition, the company must calculate its total consolidated assets in accordance with GAAP, or if the company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may estimate its total consolidated assets, subject to review and adjustment by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; or
(4) A U.S. intermediate holding company.
Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding
means a non-recourse loan that is extended as part of the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility or Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility authorized by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act.
1
1
The Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility was authorized on March 18, 2020, and the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility was authorized on April 6, 2020.
Credit facility
means a legally binding agreement to extend funds if requested at a future date, including a general working capital facility such as a revolving credit facility for general corporate or working capital purposes. A credit facility does not include a legally binding written agreement to extend funds at a future date to a
counterparty that is made for the purpose of refinancing the debt of the counterparty when it is unable to obtain a primary or anticipated source of funding.
See liquidity facility.
Customer short position
means a legally binding written agreement pursuant to which the customer must deliver to the national bank or Federal savings association a non-cash asset that the customer has already sold.
Deposit
means “deposit” as defined in section 3(
l
) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(
l
)) or an equivalent liability of the national bank or Federal savings association in a jurisdiction outside of the United States.
Depository institution
is defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
Depository institution holding company
means a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
Deposit insurance
means deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
).
Derivative transaction
means a financial contract whose value is derived from the values of one or more underlying assets, reference rates, or indices of asset values or reference rates. Derivative contracts include interest rate derivative contracts, exchange rate derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, commodity derivative contracts, credit derivative contracts, forward contracts, and any other instrument that poses similar counterparty credit risks. Derivative contracts also include unsettled securities, commodities, and foreign currency exchange transactions with a contractual settlement or delivery lag that is longer than the lesser of the market standard for the particular instrument or five business days. A derivative does not include any identified banking product, as that term is defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
Designated company
means a company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and for which such determination is still in effect.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).
Eligible HQLA
means a high-quality liquid asset that meets the requirements set forth in § 50.22.
Encumbered
means, with respect to an asset, that the asset:
(1) Is subject to legal, regulatory, contractual, or other restriction on the ability of the national bank or Federal savings association to monetize the asset; or
(2) Is pledged, explicitly or implicitly, to secure or to provide credit enhancement to any transaction, not including when the asset is pledged to a central bank or a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise where:
(i) Potential credit secured by the asset is not currently extended to the national bank or Federal savings association or its consolidated subsidiaries; and
(ii) The pledged asset is not required to support access to the payment services of a central bank.
Fair value
means fair value as determined under GAAP.
Financial sector entity
means an investment adviser, investment company, pension fund, non-regulated fund, regulated financial company, or identified company.
Foreign withdrawable reserves
means a national bank's or Federal savings association's balances held by or on behalf of the national bank or Federal savings association at a foreign central bank that are not subject to restrictions on the national bank's or Federal savings association's ability to use the reserves.
FR Y-9LP
means the Parent Company Only Financial Statements for Large Holding Companies.
FR Y-15
means the Systemic Risk Report.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Global systemically important BHC
means a bank holding company identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402.
GSIB depository institution
means a depository institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC and has total consolidated assets equal to $10 billion or more, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent calendar quarter or the average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this definition, a depository institution continues to be a GSIB depository institution until the depository institution has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the depository institution is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC.
High-quality liquid asset (HQLA)
means an asset that is a level 1 liquid asset, level 2A liquid asset, or level 2B liquid asset, in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 50.20.
HQLA amount
means the HQLA amount as calculated under § 50.21.
Identified company
means any company that the OCC has determined should be treated for the purposes of this part the same as a regulated financial company, investment company, non-regulated fund, pension fund, or investment adviser, based on activities similar in scope, nature, or operations to those entities.
Individual
means a natural person, and does not include a sole proprietorship.
Investment adviser
means a company registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
) or foreign equivalents of such company.
Investment company
means a person or company registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or foreign equivalents of such persons or companies.
Liquid and readily-marketable
has the meaning given the term in 12 CFR 249.3.
Liquidity facility
means a legally binding written agreement to extend funds at a future date to a counterparty that is made for the purpose of refinancing the debt of the counterparty when it is unable to obtain a primary or anticipated source of funding. A liquidity facility includes an agreement to provide liquidity support to asset-backed commercial paper by lending to, or purchasing assets from, any structure, program or conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing asset-backed commercial paper. Liquidity facilities exclude facilities that are established solely for the purpose of general working capital, such as revolving credit facilities for general corporate or working capital purposes. If a facility has characteristics of both credit and liquidity facilities, the facility must be classified as a liquidity facility.
See credit facility.
Multilateral development bank
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, and any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which the OCC determines poses comparable risk.
Municipal obligation
means an obligation of:
(1) A state or any political subdivision thereof; or
(2) Any agency or instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision thereof.
Non-regulated fund
means any hedge fund or private equity fund whose investment adviser is required to file SEC Form PF (Reporting Form for Investment Advisers to Private Funds and Certain Commodity Pool Operators and Commodity Trading Advisors), other than a small business investment company as defined in section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
).
Nonperforming exposure
means an exposure that is past due by more than 90 days or nonaccrual.
NSFR liability
means any liability or equity reported on a national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet that is not an NSFR regulatory capital element.
NSFR regulatory capital element
means any capital element included in a national bank's or Federal savings association's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, and tier 2 capital, in each case as defined in 12 CFR 3.20, prior to application of capital adjustments or deductions as set forth in 12 CFR 3.22, excluding any debt or equity instrument that does not meet the criteria for additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments in 12 CFR 3.22 and is being phased out of tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital pursuant to subpart G of 12 CFR part 3.
Operational deposit
means short-term unsecured wholesale funding that is a deposit, unsecured wholesale lending that is a deposit, or a collateralized deposit, in each case that meets the requirements of § 50.4(b) with respect to that deposit and is necessary for the provision of operational services as an independent third-party intermediary, agent, or administrator to the wholesale customer or counterparty providing the deposit.
Operational services
means the following services, provided they are performed as part of cash management, clearing, or custody services:
(1) Payment remittance;
(2) Administration of payments and cash flows related to the safekeeping of investment assets, not including the purchase or sale of assets;
(3) Payroll administration and control over the disbursement of funds;
(4) Transmission, reconciliation, and confirmation of payment orders;
(5) Daylight overdraft;
(6) Determination of intra-day and final settlement positions;
(7) Settlement of securities transactions;
(8) Transfer of capital distributions and recurring contractual payments;
(9) Customer subscriptions and redemptions;
(10) Scheduled distribution of customer funds;
(11) Escrow, funds transfer, stock transfer, and agency services, including payment and settlement services, payment of fees, taxes, and other expenses; and
(12) Collection and aggregation of funds.
Pension fund
means an employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), a “governmental plan” (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or any similar employee benefit plan established under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.
Public sector entity
means a state, local authority, or other governmental subdivision below the U.S. sovereign entity level.
Publicly traded
means, with respect to an equity security, that the equity security is traded on:
(1) Any exchange registered with the SEC as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f); or
(2) Any non-U.S.-based securities exchange that:
(i) Is registered with, or approved by, a national securities regulatory authority; and
(ii) Provides a liquid, two-way market for the security in question.
QMNA netting set
means a group of derivative transactions with a single counterparty that is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and is netted under the qualifying master netting agreement.
Qualifying master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the national bank or Federal savings association the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (2)(i)(A) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of part 47, subpart I of part 225, or part 382 of this title, as applicable;
Regulated financial company
means:
(1) A depository institution holding company or designated company;
(2) A company included in the organization chart of a depository institution holding company on the Form FR Y-6, as listed in the hierarchy report of the depository institution holding company produced by the National Information Center (NIC) website,
2
provided that the top-tier depository institution holding company is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under 12 CFR part 249;
2
http://www.ffiec.gov/nicpubweb/nicweb/NicHome.aspx.
(3) A depository institution; foreign bank; credit union; industrial loan company, industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
); national bank, state member bank, or state non-member bank that is not a depository institution;
(4) An insurance company;
(5) A securities holding company as defined in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); broker or dealer registered with the SEC under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o); futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); swap dealer as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a); or security-based swap dealer as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c);
(6) A designated financial market utility, as defined in section 803 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462);
(7) A U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(8) Any company not domiciled in the United States (or a political subdivision thereof) that is supervised and regulated in a manner similar to entities described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition (
e.g.,
a foreign banking organization, foreign insurance company, foreign securities broker or dealer or foreign financial market utility).
(9) A regulated financial company does not include:
(i) U.S. government-sponsored enterprises;
(ii) Small business investment companies, as defined in section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
);
(iii) Entities designated as Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) under 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
and 12 CFR part 1805; or
(iv) Central banks, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, or multilateral development banks.
Reserve Bank balances
means:
(1) Balances held in a master account of the national bank or Federal savings association at a Federal Reserve Bank, less any balances that are attributable to any respondent of the national bank or Federal savings association if the national bank or Federal savings association is a correspondent for a pass-through account as defined in section 204.2(l) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(l));
(2) Balances held in a master account of a correspondent of the national bank or Federal savings association that are attributable to the national bank or Federal savings association if the national bank or Federal savings association is a respondent for a pass-through account as defined in section 204.2(l) of Regulation D;
(3) “Excess balances” of the national bank or Federal savings association as defined in section 204.2(z) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(z)) that are maintained in an “excess balance account” as defined in section 204.2(aa) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(aa)) if the national bank or Federal savings association is an excess balance account participant; or
(4) “Term deposits” of the national bank or Federal savings association as defined in section 204.2(dd) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(dd)) if such term deposits are offered and maintained pursuant to terms and conditions that:
(i) Explicitly and contractually permit such term deposits to be withdrawn upon demand prior to the expiration of the term, or that
(ii) Permit such term deposits to be pledged as collateral for term or automatically-renewing overnight advances from the Federal Reserve Bank.
Retail customer or counterparty
means a customer or counterparty that is:
(1) An individual;
(2) A business customer, but solely if and to the extent that:
(i) The national bank or Federal savings association manages its transactions with the business customer, including deposits, unsecured funding, and credit facility and liquidity facility transactions, in the same way it manages its transactions with individuals;
(ii) Transactions with the business customer have liquidity risk characteristics that are similar to comparable transactions with individuals; and
(iii) The total aggregate funding raised from the business customer is less than $1.5 million; or
(3) A living or testamentary trust that:
(i) Is solely for the benefit of natural persons;
(ii) Does not have a corporate trustee; and
(iii) Terminates within 21 years and 10 months after the death of grantors or beneficiaries of the trust living on the effective date of the trust or within 25 years, if applicable under state law.
Retail deposit
means a demand or term deposit that is placed with the national bank or Federal savings association by a retail customer or counterparty, other than a brokered deposit.
Retail mortgage
means a mortgage that is primarily secured by a first or subsequent lien on one-to-four family residential property.
Savings and loan holding company
means a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a).
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Secured funding transaction
means any funding transaction that is subject to a legally binding agreement that gives rise to a cash obligation of the national bank or Federal savings association to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is secured under applicable law by a lien on securities or loans provided by the national bank or Federal savings association, which gives the wholesale customer or counterparty, as holder of the lien, priority over the securities or loans in the
event the national bank or Federal savings association enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding. Secured funding transactions include repurchase transactions, securities lending transactions, other secured loans, and borrowings from a Federal Reserve Bank. Secured funding transactions do not include securities.
Secured lending transaction
means any lending transaction that is subject to a legally binding agreement that gives rise to a cash obligation of a wholesale customer or counterparty to the national bank or Federal savings association that is secured under applicable law by a lien on securities or loans provided by the wholesale customer or counterparty, which gives the national bank or Federal savings association, as holder of the lien, priority over the securities or loans in the event the counterparty enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding. Secured lending transactions include reverse repurchase transactions and securities borrowing transactions. Secured lending transactions do not include securities.
Securities Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
Sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
Special purpose entity
means a company organized for a specific purpose, the activities of which are significantly limited to those appropriate to accomplish a specific purpose, and the structure of which is intended to isolate the credit risk of the special purpose entity.
Stable retail deposit
means a retail deposit that is entirely covered by deposit insurance and:
(1) Is held by the depositor in a transactional account; or
(2) The depositor that holds the account has another established relationship with the national bank or Federal savings association such as another deposit account, a loan, bill payment services, or any similar service or product provided to the depositor that the national bank or Federal savings association demonstrates to the satisfaction of the OCC would make deposit withdrawal highly unlikely during a liquidity stress event.
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Structured security
means a security whose cash flow characteristics depend upon one or more indices or that has embedded forwards, options, or other derivatives or a security where an investor's investment return and the issuer's payment obligations are contingent on, or highly sensitive to, changes in the value of underlying assets, indices, interest rates, or cash flows.
Structured transaction
means a secured transaction in which repayment of obligations and other exposures to the transaction is largely derived, directly or indirectly, from the cash flow generated by the pool of assets that secures the obligations and other exposures to the transaction.
Sweep deposit
means a deposit held at the national bank or Federal savings association by a customer or counterparty through a contractual feature that automatically transfers to the national bank or Federal savings association from another regulated financial company at the close of each business day amounts identified under the agreement governing the account from which the amount is being transferred.
Two-way market
means a market where there are independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a relatively short time frame conforming to trade custom.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
means an entity established or chartered by the Federal government to serve public purposes specified by the United States Congress, but whose debt
obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.
U.S. intermediate holding company
means the top-tier company that is required to be established pursuant to 12 CFR 252.153.
Unconditionally cancelable
means, with respect to a credit or liquidity facility, that a national bank or Federal savings association may, at any time, with or without cause, refuse to extend credit under the facility (to the extent permitted under applicable law).
Unsecured wholesale funding
means a liability or general obligation of the national bank or Federal savings association to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a secured funding transaction. Unsecured wholesale funding includes wholesale deposits. Unsecured wholesale funding does not include asset exchanges.
Unsecured wholesale lending
means a liability or general obligation of a wholesale customer or counterparty to the national bank or Federal savings association that is not a secured lending transaction or a security. Unsecured wholesale lending does not include asset exchanges.
Wholesale customer or counterparty
means a customer or counterparty that is not a retail customer or counterparty.
Wholesale deposit means
a demand or term deposit that is provided by a wholesale customer or counterparty.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 78294, Dec. 30, 2014; 82 FR 56669, Nov. 29, 2017; 83 FR 44454, Aug. 31, 2018; 84 FR 59266, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 26841, May 6, 2020; 86 FR 9207, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.4
Certain operational requirements.
(a)
Qualifying master netting agreements.
In order to recognize an agreement as a qualifying master netting agreement as defined in § 50.3, a national bank or Federal savings association must:
(1) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(i) The agreement meets the requirements of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 50.3; and
(ii) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding) the relevant judicial and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(2) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 50.3.
(b)
Operational deposits.
In order to recognize a deposit as an operational deposit as defined in § 50.3:
(1) The related operational services must be performed pursuant to a legally binding written agreement, and:
(i) The termination of the agreement must be subject to a minimum 30 calendar-day notice period; or
(ii) As a result of termination of the agreement or transfer of services to a third-party provider, the customer providing the deposit would incur significant contractual termination costs or switching costs (switching costs include significant technology, administrative, and legal service costs incurred in connection with the transfer of the operational services to a third-party provider);
(2) The deposit must be held in an account designated as an operational account;
(3) The customer must hold the deposit at the national bank or Federal savings association for the primary purpose of obtaining the operational services provided by the national bank or Federal savings association;
(4) The deposit account must not be designed to create an economic incentive for the customer to maintain excess funds therein through increased revenue, reduction in fees, or other offered economic incentives;
(5) The national bank or Federal savings association must demonstrate that the deposit is empirically linked to the operational services and that it has a methodology that takes into account the volatility of the average balance for identifying any excess
amount, which must be excluded from the operational deposit amount;
(6) The deposit must not be provided in connection with the national bank's or Federal savings association's provision of prime brokerage services, which, for the purposes of this part, are a package of services offered by the national bank or Federal savings association whereby the national bank or Federal savings association, among other services, executes, clears, settles, and finances transactions entered into by the customer or a third-party entity on behalf of the customer (such as an executing broker), and where the national bank or Federal savings association has a right to use or rehypothecate assets provided by the customer, including in connection with the extension of margin and other similar financing of the customer, subject to applicable law, and includes operational services provided to a non-regulated fund; and
(7) The deposits must not be for arrangements in which the national bank or Federal savings association (as correspondent) holds deposits owned by another depository institution bank (as respondent) and the respondent temporarily places excess funds in an overnight deposit with the national bank or Federal savings association.

# Subpart B—Liquidity Coverage Ratio
§ 50.10
Liquidity coverage ratio.
(a)
Minimum liquidity coverage ratio requirement.
Subject to the transition provisions in subpart F of this part, a national bank or Federal savings association must calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio that is equal to or greater than 1.0 on each business day in accordance with this part. A national bank or Federal savings association must calculate its liquidity coverage ratio as of the same time on each calculation date (the elected calculation time). The national bank or Federal savings association must select this time by written notice to the OCC prior to December 31, 2019. The national bank or Federal savings association may not thereafter change its elected calculation time without prior written approval from the OCC.
(b)
Calculation of the liquidity coverage ratio.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity coverage ratio equals:
(1) The national bank's or Federal savings association's HQLA amount as of the calculation date, calculated under subpart C of this part;
divided by
(2) The national bank's or Federal savings association's total net cash outflow amount as of the calculation date, calculated under subpart D of this part.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59268, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart C—High-Quality Liquid Assets
§ 50.20
High-quality liquid asset criteria.
(a)
Level 1 liquid assets.
An asset is a level 1 liquid asset if it is one of the following types of assets:
(1) Reserve Bank balances;
(2) Foreign withdrawable reserves;
(3) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
(4) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government agency (other than the U.S. Department of the Treasury) whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, provided that the security is liquid and readily-marketable;
(5) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, European Community, or a multilateral development bank, that is:
(i) Assigned a zero percent risk weight under subpart D of (12 CFR part 3) as of the calculation date;
(ii) Liquid and readily-marketable;
(iii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions; and
(iv) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity; or
(6) A security issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity that is not assigned a zero percent risk weight under subpart D of (12 CFR part 3), where the sovereign entity issues the security in its own currency, the security is liquid and readily-marketable, and the national bank or Federal savings association holds the security in order to meet its net cash outflows in the jurisdiction of the sovereign entity, as calculated under subpart D of this part.
(b)
Level 2A liquid assets.
An asset is a level 2A liquid asset if the asset is liquid and readily-marketable and is one of the following types of assets:
(1) A security issued by, or guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, that is investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date, provided that the claim is senior to preferred stock; or
(2) A security that is issued by, or guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity or multilateral development bank that is:
(i) Not included in level 1 liquid assets;
(ii) Assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under subpart D of (12 CFR part 3) as of the calculation date;
(iii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 10 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to secured lending and secured funding transactions that are collateralized by the security or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by no more than 10 percentage points during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress; and
(iv) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity, and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity.
(c)
Level 2B liquid assets.
An asset is a level 2B liquid asset if the asset is liquid and readily-marketable and is one of the following types of assets:
(1) A corporate debt security that is:
(i) Investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date;
(ii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the corporate debt security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 20 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to secured lending and secured funding transactions that are collateralized by the corporate debt security or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by no more than 20 percentage points during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress; and
(iii) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity;
(2) A publicly traded common equity share that is:
(i) Included in:
(A) The Russell 1000 Index; or
(B) An index that a national bank's or Federal savings association's supervisor in a foreign jurisdiction recognizes for purposes of including equity shares in level 2B liquid assets under applicable regulatory policy, if the share is held in that foreign jurisdiction;
(ii) Issued in:
(A) U.S. dollars; or
(B) The currency of a jurisdiction where the national bank or Federal savings association operates and the national bank or Federal savings association holds the common equity share in order to cover its net cash outflows in that jurisdiction, as calculated under subpart D of this part;
(iii) Issued by an entity whose publicly traded common equity shares have a proven record as a reliable
source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 40 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to securities borrowing and lending transactions that are collateralized by the publicly traded common equity shares or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by no more than 40 percentage points, during a 30 calendar day period of significant stress;
(iv) Not issued by a financial sector entity and not issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity;
(v) If held by a depository institution, is not acquired in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted (DPC); and
(vi) If held by a consolidated subsidiary of a depository institution, the depository institution can include the publicly traded common equity share in its level 2B liquid assets only if the share is held to cover net cash outflows of the depository institution's consolidated subsidiary in which the publicly traded common equity share is held, as calculated by the national bank or Federal savings association under subpart D of this part; or
(3) A municipal obligation that is investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 44454, Aug. 31, 2018]
§ 50.21
High-quality liquid asset amount.
(a)
Calculation of the HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, a national bank's or Federal savings association's HQLA amount equals:
(1) The level 1 liquid asset amount; plus
(2) The level 2A liquid asset amount; plus
(3) The level 2B liquid asset amount; minus
(4) The greater of:
(i) The unadjusted excess HQLA amount; and
(ii) The adjusted excess HQLA amount.
(b)
Calculation of liquid asset amounts
—(1)
Level 1 liquid asset amount.
The level 1 liquid asset amount equals the fair value of all level 1 liquid assets held by the national bank or Federal savings association as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA, less the amount of the reserve balance requirement under section 204.5 of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.5).
(2)
Level 2A liquid asset amount.
The level 2A liquid asset amount equals 85 percent of the fair value of all level 2A liquid assets held by the national bank or Federal savings association as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA.
(3)
Level 2B liquid asset amount.
The level 2B liquid asset amount equals 50 percent of the fair value of all level 2B liquid assets held by the national bank or Federal savings association as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA.
(c)
Calculation of the unadjusted excess HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, the unadjusted excess HQLA amount equals:
(1) The level 2 cap excess amount;
plus
(2) The level 2B cap excess amount.
(d)
Calculation of the level 2 cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the level 2 cap excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The level 2A liquid asset amount plus the level 2B liquid asset amount minus 0.6667 times the level 1 liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(e)
Calculation of the level 2B cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the level 2B excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The level 2B liquid asset amount minus the level 2 cap excess amount minus 0.1765 times the sum of the level 1 liquid asset amount and the level 2A liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(f)
Calculation of adjusted liquid asset amounts
—(1)
Adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount equals the fair value of all level 1 liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the national bank or Federal savings association upon the unwind of
any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the national bank or Federal savings association will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA; less the amount of the reserve balance requirement under section 204.5 of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.5).
(2)
Adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount equals 85 percent of the fair value of all level 2A liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the national bank or Federal savings association upon the unwind of any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the national bank or Federal savings association will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA.
(3)
Adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount equals 50 percent of the fair value of all level 2B liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the national bank or Federal savings association upon the unwind of any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the national bank or Federal savings association will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA.
(g)
Calculation of the adjusted excess HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted excess HQLA amount equals:
(1) The adjusted level 2 cap excess amount;
plus
(2) The adjusted level 2B cap excess amount.
(h)
Calculation of the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount plus the adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount minus 0.6667 times the adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(i)
Calculation of the adjusted level 2B excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted level 2B excess liquid asset amount equals the greater of:
(1) The adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount minus the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount minus 0.1765 times the sum of the adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount and the adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
§ 50.22
Requirements for eligible high-quality liquid assets.
(a)
Operational requirements for eligible HQLA.
With respect to each asset that is eligible for inclusion in a national bank's or Federal savings association's HQLA amount, a national bank or Federal savings association must meet all of the following operational requirements:
(1) The national bank or Federal savings association must demonstrate the operational capability to monetize the HQLA by:
(i) Implementing and maintaining appropriate procedures and systems to monetize any HQLA at any time in accordance with relevant standard settlement periods and procedures; and
(ii) Periodically monetizing a sample of HQLA that reasonably reflects the composition of the national bank's or Federal savings association's eligible HQLA, including with respect to asset type, maturity, and counterparty characteristics;
(2) The national bank or Federal savings association must implement policies that require eligible HQLA to be under the control of the management function in the national bank or Federal savings association that is charged with managing liquidity risk, and this management function must evidence its control over the HQLA by either:
(i) Segregating the HQLA from other assets, with the sole intent to use the HQLA as a source of liquidity; or
(ii) Demonstrating the ability to monetize the assets and making the proceeds available to the liquidity management function without conflicting with a business or risk management strategy of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(3) The fair value of the eligible HQLA must be reduced by the outflow amount that would result from the termination of any specific transaction hedging eligible HQLA;
(4) The national bank or Federal savings association must implement and maintain policies and procedures that determine the composition of its eligible HQLA on each calculation date, by:
(i) Identifying its eligible HQLA by legal entity, geographical location, currency, account, or other relevant identifying factors as of the calculation date;
(ii) Determining that eligible HQLA meet the criteria set forth in this section; and
(iii) Ensuring the appropriate diversification of the eligible HQLA by asset type, counterparty, issuer, currency, borrowing capacity, or other factors associated with the liquidity risk of the assets; and
(5) The national bank or Federal savings association must have a documented methodology that results in a consistent treatment for determining that the national bank's or Federal savings association's eligible HQLA meet the requirements set forth in this section.
(b)
Generally applicable criteria for eligible HQLA.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's eligible HQLA must meet all of the following criteria:
(1) The assets are not encumbered.
(2) The asset is not:
(i) A client pool security held in a segregated account; or
(ii) An asset received from a secured funding transaction involving client pool securities that were held in a segregated account;
(3) For eligible HQLA held in a legal entity that is a U.S. consolidated subsidiary of a national bank or Federal savings association:
(i) If the U.S. consolidated subsidiary is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part, the national bank or Federal savings association may include the eligible HQLA of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary in its HQLA amount up to:
(A) The amount of net cash outflows of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary calculated by the U.S. consolidated subsidiary for its own minimum liquidity standard under this part;
plus
(B) Any additional amount of assets, including proceeds from the monetization of assets, that would be available for transfer to the top-tier national bank or Federal savings association during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, including sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223); and
(ii) If the U.S. consolidated subsidiary is not subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part, the national bank or Federal savings association may include the eligible HQLA of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary in its HQLA amount up to:
(A) The amount of the net cash outflows of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary as of the 30th calendar day after the calculation date, as calculated by the national bank or Federal savings association for the national bank's or Federal savings association's minimum liquidity standard under this part;
plus
(B) Any additional amount of assets, including proceeds from the monetization of assets, that would be available for transfer to the top-tier national bank or Federal savings association during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, including sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223);
(4) For HQLA held by a consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association that is organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, the national bank or Federal savings association may include the eligible HQLA of the consolidated subsidiary organized under the laws of a
foreign jurisdiction in its HQLA amount up to:
(i) The amount of net cash outflows of the consolidated subsidiary as of the 30th calendar day after the calculation date, as calculated by the national bank or Federal savings association for the national bank's or Federal savings association's minimum liquidity standard under this part;
plus
(ii) Any additional amount of assets that are available for transfer to the top-tier national bank or Federal savings association during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions;
(5) The national bank or Federal savings association must not include as eligible HQLA any assets, or HQLA resulting from transactions involving an asset that the national bank or Federal savings association received with rehypothecation rights, if the counterparty that provided the asset or the beneficial owner of the asset has a contractual right to withdraw the assets without an obligation to pay more than de minimis remuneration at any time during the 30 calendar days following the calculation date; and
(6) The national bank or Federal savings association has not designated the assets to cover operational costs.
(c)
Maintenance of U.S. eligible HQLA.
A national bank or Federal savings association is generally expected to maintain as eligible HQLA an amount and type of eligible HQLA in the United States that is sufficient to meet its total net cash outflow amount in the United States under subpart D of this part.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9209, Feb. 11, 2021]

# Subpart D—Total Net Cash Outflow
§ 50.30
Total net cash outflow amount.
(a)
Calculation of total net cash outflow amount.
As of the calculation date, a national bank's or Federal savings association's total net cash outflow amount equals the national bank's or Federal savings association's outflow adjustment percentage as determined under paragraph (c) of this section multiplied by:
(1) The sum of the outflow amounts calculated under § 50.32(a) through (l); minus
(2) The lesser of:
(i) The sum of the inflow amounts calculated under § 50.33(b) through (g); and
(ii) 75 percent of the amount calculated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section; plus
(3) The maturity mismatch add-on as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Calculation of maturity mismatch add-on.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(i) The net cumulative maturity outflow amount for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date is equal to the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 50.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day
minus
the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 50.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day.
(ii) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount is equal to, as of the 30th day following the calculation date, the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 50.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date
minus
the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 50.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date.
(2) As of the calculation date, a national bank's or Federal savings association's maturity mismatch add-on is equal to:
(i) The greater of:
(A) 0; and
(B) The largest net cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date;
minus
(ii) The greater of:
(A) 0; and
(B) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3) Other than the transactions identified in § 50.32(h)(2), (h)(5), or (j) or § 50.33(d) or (f), the maturity of which is determined under § 50.31(a), transactions that have an open maturity are not included in the calculation of the maturity mismatch add-on.
(c)
Outflow adjustment percentage.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's outflow adjustment percentage is determined pursuant to Table 1 to this paragraph (c).
Table 1 to § 50.30(
c
)—Outflow Adjustment Percentages
Percent
Outflow adjustment percentage
GSIB depository institution that is a national bank or Federal savings association
100
Category II national bank or Federal savings association
100
Category III national bank or Federal savings association that:
100
(1) Is a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part, in each case with $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding; or
(2) Has $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and is not a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part
Category III national bank or Federal savings association that:
85
(1) Is a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part, in each case with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding; or
(2) Has less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and is not a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part
(d)
Transition into a different outflow adjustment percentage.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association whose outflow adjustment percentage increases from a lower to a higher outflow adjustment percentage may continue to use its previous lower outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the third calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage increases.
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association whose outflow adjustment percentage decreases from a higher to a lower outflow adjustment percentage must continue to use its previous higher outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the first calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage decreases.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59268, Nov. 1, 2019; 86 FR 9209, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.31
Determining maturity.
(a) For purposes of calculating its liquidity coverage ratio and the components thereof under this subpart, a national bank or Federal savings association shall assume an asset or transaction matures:
(1) With respect to an instrument or transaction subject to § 50.32, on the earliest possible contractual maturity date or the earliest possible date the transaction could occur, taking into account any option that could accelerate the maturity date or the date of the transaction, except that when considering the earliest possible contractual maturity date or the earliest possible date the transaction could occur, the national bank or Federal savings association should exclude any contingent options that are triggered only by regulatory actions or changes in law or regulation, as follows:
(i) If an investor or funds provider has an option that would reduce the maturity, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume that the investor or funds provider will exercise the option at the earliest possible date;
(ii) If an investor or funds provider has an option that would extend the maturity, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume that the investor or funds provider will not exercise the option to extend the maturity;
(iii) If the national bank or Federal savings association has an option that would reduce the maturity of an obligation, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume that the national bank or Federal savings association will exercise the option at the earliest possible date, except if either of the following criteria are satisfied, in which case the maturity of the obligation for purposes of this part will be the original maturity date at issuance:
(A) The original maturity of the obligation is greater than one year and the option does not go into effect for a period of 180 days following the issuance of the instrument; or
(B) The counterparty is a sovereign entity, a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, or a public sector entity.
(iv) If the national bank or Federal savings association has an option that would extend the maturity of an obligation it issued, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume the national bank or Federal savings association will not exercise that option to extend the maturity; and
(v) If an option is subject to a contractually defined notice period, the national bank or Federal savings association must determine the earliest possible contractual maturity date regardless of the notice period.
(2) With respect to an instrument or transaction subject to § 50.33, on the latest possible contractual maturity date or the latest possible date the transaction could occur, taking into account any option that could extend the maturity date or the date of the transaction, except that when considering the latest possible contractual maturity date or the latest possible date the transaction could occur, the national bank or Federal savings association may exclude any contingent options that are triggered only by regulatory actions or changes in law or regulation, as follows:
(i) If the borrower has an option that would extend the maturity, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume that the borrower will exercise the option to extend the maturity to the latest possible date;
(ii) If the borrower has an option that would reduce the maturity, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume that the borrower will not exercise the option to reduce the maturity;
(iii) If the national bank or Federal savings association has an option that would reduce the maturity of an instrument or transaction, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume the national bank or Federal savings association will not exercise the option to reduce the maturity;
(iv) If the national bank or Federal savings association has an option that would extend the maturity of an instrument or transaction, the national bank or Federal savings association must assume the national bank or Federal savings association will exercise the option to extend the maturity to the latest possible date; and
(v) If an option is subject to a contractually defined notice period, the national bank or Federal savings association must determine the latest possible contractual maturity date based on the borrower using the entire notice period.
(3) With respect to a transaction subject to § 50.33(f)(1)(iii) through (vii) (secured lending transactions) or § 50.33(f)(2)(ii) through (x) (asset exchanges), to the extent the transaction is secured by collateral that has been pledged in connection with either a secured funding transaction or asset exchange that has a remaining maturity of 30 calendar days or less as of the calculation date, the maturity date is the later of the maturity date determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the secured lending transaction or asset exchange or the maturity date determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the secured funding
transaction or asset exchange for which the collateral has been pledged.
(4) With respect to a transaction that has an open maturity, is not an operational deposit, and is subject to the provisions of § 50.32(h)(2), (h)(5), (j), or (k) or § 50.33(d) or (f), the maturity date is the first calendar day after the calculation date. Any other transaction that has an open maturity and is subject to the provisions of § 50.32 shall be considered to mature within 30 calendar days of the calculation date.
(5) With respect to a transaction subject to the provisions of § 50.33(g), on the date of the next scheduled calculation of the amount required under applicable legal requirements for the protection of customer assets with respect to each broker-dealer segregated account, in accordance with the national bank's or Federal savings association's normal frequency of recalculating such requirements.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9209, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.32
Outflow amounts.
(a)
Retail funding outflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's retail funding outflow amount as of the calculation date includes (regardless of maturity or collateralization):
(1) 3 percent of all stable retail deposits held at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(2) 10 percent of all other retail deposits held at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(3) 20 percent of all deposits placed at the national bank or Federal savings association by a third party on behalf of a retail customer or counterparty that are not brokered deposits, where the retail customer or counterparty owns the account and the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 40 percent of all deposits placed at the national bank or Federal savings association by a third party on behalf of a retail customer or counterparty that are not brokered deposits, where the retail customer or counterparty owns the account and where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance; and
(5) 40 percent of all funding from a retail customer or counterparty that is not:
(i) A retail deposit;
(ii) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty; or
(iii) A debt instrument issued by the national bank or Federal savings association that is owned by a retail customer or counterparty (see paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section).
(b)
Structured transaction outflow amount.
If the national bank or Federal savings association is a sponsor of a structured transaction where the issuing entity is not consolidated on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet under GAAP, the structured transaction outflow amount for each such structured transaction as of the calculation date is the greater of:
(1) 100 percent of the amount of all debt obligations of the issuing entity that mature 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date and all commitments made by the issuing entity to purchase assets within 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date; and
(2) The maximum contractual amount of funding the national bank or Federal savings association may be required to provide to the issuing entity 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date through a liquidity facility, a return or repurchase of assets from the issuing entity, or other funding agreement.
(c)
Net derivative cash outflow amount.
The net derivative cash outflow amount as of the calculation date is the sum of the net derivative cash outflow amount for each counterparty. The net derivative cash outflow amount does not include forward sales of mortgage loans and any derivatives that are mortgage commitments subject to paragraph (d) of this section. The net derivative cash outflow amount for a counterparty is the sum of:
(1) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual payments and collateral that the national bank or Federal savings association will make or deliver to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than
transactions described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, less the contractual payments and collateral that the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, provided that the derivative transactions are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; and
(2) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual principal payments that the national bank or Federal savings association will make to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day, less the contractual principal payments that the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day.
(d)
Mortgage commitment outflow amount.
The mortgage commitment outflow amount as of a calculation date is 10 percent of the amount of funds the national bank or Federal savings association has contractually committed for its own origination of retail mortgages that can be drawn upon 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date.
(e)
Commitment outflow amount.
(1) A national bank's or Federal savings association's commitment outflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by a national bank or Federal savings association that is a depository institution to an affiliated depository institution that is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part;
(ii) 5 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to retail customers or counterparties;
(iii) 10 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of such wholesale customer or counterparty;
(iv) 30 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed liquidity facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of such wholesale customer or counterparty;
(v) 50 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to depository institutions, depository institution holding companies, and foreign banks, but excluding commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section;
(vi) 40 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, but excluding other commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (v) of this section;
(vii) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed liquidity facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association to a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, but
excluding other commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (v) of this section and liquidity facilities included in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(viii) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended to a special purpose entity that issues or has issued commercial paper or securities (other than equity securities issued to a company of which the special purpose entity is a consolidated subsidiary) to finance its purchases or operations, and excluding liquidity facilities included in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ix) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all other committed credit or liquidity facilities extended by the national bank or Federal savings association.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), the undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility is the entire unused amount of the facility that could be drawn upon within 30 calendar days of the calculation date under the governing agreement, less the amount of level 1 liquid assets and the amount of level 2A liquid assets securing the facility.
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), the amount of level 1 liquid assets and level 2A liquid assets securing a committed credit or liquidity facility is the fair value of level 1 liquid assets and 85 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets that are required to be pledged as collateral by the counterparty to secure the facility, provided that:
(i) The assets pledged upon a draw on the facility would be eligible HQLA; and
(ii) The national bank or Federal savings association has not included the assets as eligible HQLA under subpart C of this part as of the calculation date.
(f)
Collateral outflow amount.
The collateral outflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(1)
Changes in financial condition.
100 percent of all additional amounts of collateral the national bank or Federal savings association could be contractually required to pledge or to fund under the terms of any transaction as a result of a change in the national bank's or Federal savings association's financial condition;
(2)
Derivative collateral potential valuation changes.
20 percent of the fair value of any collateral securing a derivative transaction pledged to a counterparty by the national bank or Federal savings association that is not a level 1 liquid asset;
(3)
Potential derivative valuation changes.
The absolute value of the largest 30-consecutive calendar day cumulative net mark-to-market collateral outflow or inflow realized during the preceding 24 months resulting from derivative transaction valuation changes;
(4)
Excess collateral.
100 percent of the fair value of collateral that:
(i) The national bank or Federal savings association could be required by contract to return to a counterparty because the collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association exceeds the current collateral requirement of the counterparty under the governing contract;
(ii) Is not segregated from the national bank's or Federal savings association's other assets such that it cannot be rehypothecated; and
(iii) Is not already excluded as eligible HQLA by the national bank or Federal savings association under § 50.22(b)(5);
(5)
Contractually required collateral.
100 percent of the fair value of collateral that the national bank or Federal savings association is contractually required to pledge to a counterparty and, as of such calculation date, the national bank or Federal savings association has not yet pledged;
(6)
Collateral substitution.
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with other assets that qualify as level 1 liquid assets, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(ii) 15 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a
counterparty, where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2A liquid assets, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(iii) 50 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where under, the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2B liquid assets, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(iv) 100 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(v) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 1 or level 2A liquid assets, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(vi) 35 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2B liquid assets, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(vii) 85 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association;
(viii) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2B liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with other assets that qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association; and
(ix) 50 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the national bank or Federal savings association by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2B liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association.
(g)
Brokered deposit outflow amount for retail customers or counterparties.
The brokered deposit outflow amount for retail customers or counterparties as of the calculation date includes:
(1) 100 percent of all brokered deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which mature 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date;
(2) 10 percent of all brokered deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which mature later than 30 calendar days from the calculation date;
(3) 20 percent of all brokered deposits at the national bank or Federal savings
association provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which are held in a transactional account with no contractual maturity date, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 40 percent of all brokered deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which are held in a transactional account with no contractual maturity date, where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(5) 10 percent of all brokered reciprocal deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(6) 25 percent of all brokered reciprocal deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty, where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(7) 10 percent of all sweep deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty:
(i) That are deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the national bank or Federal savings association, a controlled subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is a controlled subsidiary; and
(ii) Where the entire amount of the deposits is covered by deposit insurance;
(8) 25 percent of all sweep deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty:
(i) That are not deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the national bank or Federal savings association, a controlled subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is a controlled subsidiary; and
(ii) Where the entire amount of the deposits is covered by deposit insurance; and
(9) 40 percent of all sweep deposits at the national bank or Federal savings association provided by a retail customer or counterparty where less than the entire amount of the deposit balance is covered by deposit insurance.
(h)
Unsecured wholesale funding outflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's unsecured wholesale funding outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(1) For unsecured wholesale funding that is not an operational deposit and is not provided by a financial sector entity or consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity:
(i) 20 percent of all such funding, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance and the funding is not a brokered deposit;
(ii) 40 percent of all such funding, where:
(A) Less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance; or
(B) The funding is a brokered deposit;
(2) 100 percent of all unsecured wholesale funding that is not an operational deposit and is not included in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, including:
(i) Funding provided by a company that is a consolidated subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is a consolidated subsidiary; and
(ii) Debt instruments issued by the national bank or Federal savings association, including such instruments owned by retail customers or counterparties;
(3) 5 percent of all operational deposits, other than operational deposits that are held in escrow accounts, where the entire deposit amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 25 percent of all operational deposits not included in paragraph (h)(3) of this section; and
(5) 100 percent of all unsecured wholesale funding that is not otherwise described in this paragraph (h).
(i)
Debt security buyback outflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's debt security buyback outflow amount for debt securities issued by the national bank or Federal savings association that mature more than 30 calendar days after the calculation date and for which the national bank or Federal savings association or a consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association is the primary market maker in such debt securities includes:
(1) 3 percent of all such debt securities that are not structured securities; and
(2) 5 percent of all such debt securities that are structured securities.
(j)
Secured funding and asset exchange outflow amount.
(1) A national bank's or Federal savings association's secured funding outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of all funds the national bank or Federal savings association must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(ii) 15 percent of all funds the national bank or Federal savings association must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 2A liquid assets;
(iii) 25 percent of all funds the national bank or Federal savings association must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions with sovereign entities, multilateral development banks, or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises that are assigned a risk weight of 20 percent under subpart D of (12 CFR part 3), to the extent that the funds are not secured by level 1 or level 2A liquid assets;
(iv) 50 percent of all funds the national bank or Federal savings association must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 2B liquid assets;
(v) 50 percent of all funds received from secured funding transactions that are customer short positions where the customer short positions are covered by other customers' collateral and the collateral does not consist of HQLA; and
(vi) 100 percent of all other funds the national bank or Federal savings association must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by assets that are not HQLA.
(2) If an outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for a secured funding transaction is greater than the outflow rate that the national bank or Federal savings association is required to apply under paragraph (h) of this section to an unsecured wholesale funding transaction that is not an operational deposit with the same counterparty, the national bank or Federal savings association may apply to the secured funding transaction the outflow rate that applies to an unsecured wholesale funding transaction that is not an operational deposit with that counterparty, except in the case of:
(i) Secured funding transactions that are secured by collateral that was received by the national bank or Federal savings association under a secured lending transaction or asset exchange, in which case the national bank or Federal savings association must apply the outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for the secured funding transaction; and
(ii) Collateralized deposits that are operational deposits, in which case the national bank or Federal savings association may apply to the operational deposit amount, as calculated in accordance with § 50.4(b), the operational deposit outflow rate specified in paragraph (h)(3) or (4) of this section, as applicable, if such outflow rate is lower than the outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) A national bank's or Federal savings association's asset exchange outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant
to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive level 1 liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(ii) 15 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive level 2A liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(iii) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive level 2B liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(iv) 100 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(v) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets that national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where national bank or Federal savings association will receive level 1 or level 2A liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(vi) 35 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive level 2B liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(vii) 85 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(viii) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty; and
(ix) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(x) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the national bank or Federal savings association has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days;
(xi) 15 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the national bank or Federal savings association has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days;
(xii) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the national bank or Federal savings association has rehypothecated the assets
posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days; and
(xiii) 100 percent of the fair value of the non-HQLA the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the national bank or Federal savings association has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days.
(k)
Foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount is, in a foreign jurisdiction where the national bank or Federal savings association has borrowed from the jurisdiction's central bank, the outflow amount assigned to borrowings from central banks in a minimum liquidity standard established in that jurisdiction. If the foreign jurisdiction has not specified a central bank borrowing outflow amount in a minimum liquidity standard, the foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount must be calculated in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
(l)
Other contractual outflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's other contractual outflow amount is 100 percent of funding or amounts, with the exception of operating expenses of the national bank or Federal savings association (such as rents, salaries, utilities, and other similar payments), payable by the national bank or Federal savings association to counterparties under legally binding agreements that are not otherwise specified in this section.
(m)
Excluded amounts for intragroup transactions.
The outflow amounts set forth in this section do not include amounts arising out of transactions between:
(1) The national bank or Federal savings association and a consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(2) A consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association and another consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association.
[79 FR 61523, 61538, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9209, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.33
Inflow amounts.
(a) The inflows in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section do not include:
(1) Amounts the national bank or Federal savings association holds in operational deposits at other regulated financial companies;
(2) Amounts the national bank or Federal savings association expects, or is contractually entitled to receive, 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date due to forward sales of mortgage loans and any derivatives that are mortgage commitments subject to § 50.32(d);
(3) The amount of any credit or liquidity facilities extended to the national bank or Federal savings association;
(4) The amount of any asset that is eligible HQLA and any amounts payable to the national bank or Federal savings association with respect to that asset;
(5) Any amounts payable to the national bank or Federal savings association from an obligation of a customer or counterparty that is a nonperforming asset as of the calculation date or that the national bank or Federal savings association has reason to expect will become a nonperforming exposure 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date; and
(6) Amounts payable to the national bank or Federal savings association with respect to any transaction that has no contractual maturity date or that matures after 30 calendar days of the calculation date (as determined by § 50.31).
(b)
Net derivative cash inflow amount.
The net derivative cash inflow amount as of the calculation date is the sum of the net derivative cash inflow amount for each counterparty. The net derivative cash inflow amount does not include amounts excluded from inflows under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
The net derivative cash inflow amount for a counterparty is the sum of:
(1) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual payments and collateral that the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, less the contractual payments and collateral that the national bank or Federal savings association will make or deliver to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provided that the derivative transactions are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; and
(2) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual principal payments that the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day, less the contractual principal payments that the national bank or Federal savings association will make to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day.
(c)
Retail cash inflow amount.
The retail cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes 50 percent of all payments contractually payable to the national bank or Federal savings association from retail customers or counterparties.
(d)
Unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount.
The unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(1) 100 percent of all payments contractually payable to the national bank or Federal savings association from financial sector entities, or from a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or central banks; and
(2) 50 percent of all payments contractually payable to the national bank or Federal savings association from wholesale customers or counterparties that are not financial sector entities or consolidated subsidiaries thereof, provided that, with respect to revolving credit facilities, the amount of the existing loan is not included in the unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount and the remaining undrawn balance is included in the outflow amount under § 50.32(e)(1).
(e)
Securities cash inflow amount.
The securities cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association on securities it owns that are not eligible HQLA.
(f)
Secured lending and asset exchange cash inflow amount.
(1) A national bank's or Federal savings association's secured lending cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions, including margin loans extended to customers, to the extent that the payments are secured by collateral that has been rehypothecated in a transaction and, as of the calculation date, will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days;
(ii) 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by assets that are not eligible HQLA, but are still held by the national bank or Federal savings association and are available for immediate return to the counterparty at any time;
(iii) Zero percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(iv) 15 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 2A liquid assets;
(v) 50 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 2B liquid assets;
(vi) 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (ii), or (vii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by assets that are not HQLA; and
(vii) 50 percent of all contractual payments due to the national bank or Federal savings association pursuant to collateralized margin loans extended to customers, not described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, provided that the loans are secured by assets that are not HQLA.
(2) A national bank's or Federal savings association's asset exchange inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, to the extent that the asset received by the national bank or Federal savings association from the counterparty has been rehypothecated in a transaction and, as of the calculation date, will not be returned to the national bank or Federal savings association within 30 calendar days;
(ii) Zero percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post level 1 liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(iii) 15 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post level 2A liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(iv) 50 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post level 2B liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(v) 100 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty;
(vi) Zero percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post level 1 or level 2A liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(vii) 35 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post level 2B liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(viii) 85 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty;
(ix) Zero percent of the fair value of level 2B liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to
asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post assets that are HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty; and
(x) 50 percent of the fair value of level 2B liquid assets the national bank or Federal savings association will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the national bank or Federal savings association must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty.
(g)
Broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount is the fair value of all assets released from broker-dealer segregated accounts maintained in accordance with statutory or regulatory requirements for the protection of customer trading assets, provided that the calculation of the broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount, for any transaction affecting the calculation of the segregated balance (as required by applicable law), shall be consistent with the following:
(1) In calculating the broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount, the national bank or Federal savings association must calculate the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date by assuming that customer cash and collateral positions have changed consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 50.32 and 50.33.
(2) If the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date, as calculated consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 50.32 and 50.33, is less than the fair value of the required balance as of the calculation date, the difference is the segregated account inflow amount.
(3) If the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date, as calculated consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 50.32 and 50.33, is more than the fair value of the required balance as of the calculation date, the segregated account inflow amount is zero.
(h)
Other cash inflow amounts.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's inflow amount as of the calculation date includes zero percent of other cash inflow amounts not included in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(i)
Excluded amounts for intragroup transactions.
The inflow amounts set forth in this section do not include amounts arising out of transactions between:
(1) The national bank or Federal savings association and a consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(2) A consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association and another consolidated subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association.
§ 50.34
Cash flows related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
(a)
Treatment of Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, outflow amounts and inflow amounts related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and the assets securing Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are excluded from the calculation of a national bank's or Federal savings association's total net cash outflow amount calculated under § 50.30.
(b)
Exception.
To the extent the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is secured by securities, debt obligations, or other instruments issued by the national bank or Federal savings association or one of its consolidated subsidiaries, the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is not subject to paragraph (a) of this section and this outflow amount must be included in the national bank's or Federal savings association's total net cash outflow amount calculated under § 50.30.
[85 FR 26841, May 6, 2020]

# Subpart E—Liquidity Coverage Shortfall
§ 50.40
Liquidity coverage shortfall: Supervisory framework.
(a)
Notification requirements.
A national bank or Federal savings association must notify the OCC on any business day when its liquidity coverage ratio is calculated to be less than the minimum requirement in § 50.10.
(b)
Liquidity plan.
(1) For the period during which a national bank or Federal savings association must calculate a liquidity coverage ratio on the last business day of each applicable calendar month under subpart F of this part, if the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity coverage ratio is below the minimum requirement in § 50.10 for any calculation date that is the last business day of the applicable calendar month, or if the OCC has determined that the national bank or Federal savings association is otherwise materially noncompliant with the requirements of this part, the national bank or Federal savings association must promptly consult with the OCC to determine whether the national bank or Federal savings association must provide to the OCC a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum liquidity requirement in § 50.10 and all other requirements of this part.
(2) For the period during which a national bank or Federal savings association must calculate a liquidity coverage ratio each business day under subpart F of this part, if a national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity coverage ratio is below the minimum requirement in § 50.10 for three consecutive business days, or if the OCC has determined that the national bank or Federal savings association is otherwise materially noncompliant with the requirements of this part, the national bank or Federal savings association must promptly provide to the OCC a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum liquidity requirement in § 50.10 and all other requirements of this part.
(3) The plan must include, as applicable:
(i) An assessment of the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity position;
(ii) The actions the national bank or Federal savings association has taken and will take to achieve full compliance with this part, including:
(A) A plan for adjusting the national bank's or Federal savings association's risk profile, risk management, and funding sources in order to achieve full compliance with this part; and
(B) A plan for remediating any operational or management issues that contributed to noncompliance with this part;
(iii) An estimated time frame for achieving full compliance with this part; and
(iv) A commitment to report to the OCC no less than weekly on progress to achieve compliance in accordance with the plan until full compliance with this part is achieved.
(c)
Supervisory and enforcement actions.
The OCC may, at its discretion, take additional supervisory or enforcement actions to address noncompliance with the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part.

# Subpart F—Transitions
§ 50.50
Transitions.
(a)
No transition for certain national banks and Federal savings association.
A national bank or Federal savings association that is subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part prior to December 31, 2019 must comply with the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part as of December 31, 2019.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Initial application.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association that initially becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part under § 50.1(b)(1)(i) must comply with the requirements of this part beginning on the first day of the third calendar quarter after which the national bank or Federal savings association becomes subject to this part, except that a national bank or Federal savings association must:
(i) For the first two calendar quarters after the national bank or Federal savings association begins complying with the minimum liquidity standard
and other requirements of this part, calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio monthly, on each calculation date that is the last business day of the applicable calendar month; and
(ii) Beginning the first day of the fifth calendar quarter after the national bank or Federal savings association becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part and continuing thereafter, calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio on each calculation date.
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part under § 50.1(b)(1)(ii), must comply with the requirements of this part subject to a transition period specified by the OCC.
(d)
Transition into a different outflow adjustment percentage.
A national bank or Federal savings association whose outflow adjustment percentage changes is subject to transition periods as set forth in § 50.30(d).
(e)
Compliance date.
The OCC may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the OCC determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the OCC will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with this part, and the actions the national bank or Federal savings association is taking to come into compliance with this part.
[84 FR 59269, Nov. 1, 2019]
Subparts G-J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Net Stable Funding Ratio

# Source:
86 FR 9202, 9209, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.100
Net stable funding ratio.
(a)
Minimum net stable funding ratio requirement.
A national bank or Federal savings association must maintain a net stable funding ratio that is equal to or greater than 1.0 on an ongoing basis in accordance with this subpart.
(b)
Calculation of the net stable funding ratio.
For purposes of this part, a national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio equals:
(1) The national bank's or Federal savings association's available stable funding (ASF) amount, calculated pursuant to § 50.103, as of the calculation date; divided by
(2) The national bank's or Federal savings association's required stable funding (RSF) amount, calculated pursuant to § 50.105, as of the calculation date.
§ 50.101
Determining maturity.
For purposes of calculating its net stable funding ratio, including its ASF amount and RSF amount, under subparts K through N, a national bank or Federal savings association shall assume each of the following:
(a) With respect to any NSFR liability, the NSFR liability matures according to § 50.31(a)(1) of this part without regard to whether the NSFR liability is subject to § 50.32;
(b) With respect to an asset, the asset matures according to § 50.31(a)(2) of this part without regard to whether the asset is subject to § 50.33 of this part;
(c) With respect to an NSFR liability or asset that is perpetual, the NSFR liability or asset matures one year or more after the calculation date;
(d) With respect to an NSFR liability or asset that has an open maturity, the NSFR liability or asset matures on the first calendar day after the calculation date, except that in the case of a deferred tax liability, the NSFR liability matures on the first calendar day after the calculation date on which the deferred tax liability could be realized; and
(e) With respect to any principal payment of an NSFR liability or asset, such as an amortizing loan, that is due prior to the maturity of the NSFR liability or asset, the payment matures on the date on which it is contractually due.
§ 50.102
Rules of construction.
(a)
Balance-sheet metric.
Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, an NSFR regulatory capital element, NSFR liability, or asset that is not included on
a national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet is not assigned an RSF factor or ASF factor, as applicable; and an NSFR regulatory capital element, NSFR liability, or asset that is included on a national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet is assigned an RSF factor or ASF factor, as applicable.
(b)
Netting of certain transactions.
Where a national bank or Federal savings association has secured lending transactions, secured funding transactions, or asset exchanges with the same counterparty and has offset the gross value of receivables due from the counterparty under the transactions by the gross value of payables under the transactions due to the counterparty, the receivables or payables associated with the offsetting transactions that are not included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet are treated as if they were included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet with carrying values, unless the criteria in 12 CFR 3.10(c)(2)(v)(A) through (C) are met.
(c)
Treatment of Securities Received in an Asset Exchange by a Securities Lender.
Where a national bank or Federal savings association receives a security in an asset exchange, acts as a securities lender, includes the carrying value of the received security on its balance sheet, and has not rehypothecated the security received:
(1) The security received by the national bank or Federal savings association is not assigned an RSF factor; and
(2) The obligation to return the security received by the national bank or Federal savings association is not assigned an ASF factor.
§ 50.103
Calculation of available stable funding amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's ASF amount equals the sum of the carrying values of the national bank's or Federal savings association's NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities, in each case multiplied by the ASF factor applicable in § 50.104 or § 50.107(c) and consolidated in accordance with § 50.109.
§ 50.104
ASF factors.
(a)
NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities assigned a 100 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR regulatory capital element or NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 100 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) An NSFR regulatory capital element; or
(2) An NSFR liability that has a maturity of one year or more from the calculation date, is not described in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, and is not a retail deposit or brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty.
(b)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 95 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 95 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) A stable retail deposit (regardless of maturity or collateralization) held at the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(2) A sweep deposit that:
(i) Is deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the national bank or Federal savings association, a controlled subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is a controlled subsidiary;
(ii) Is entirely covered by deposit insurance; and
(iii) The national bank or Federal savings association demonstrates to the satisfaction of the OCC that a withdrawal of such deposit is highly unlikely to occur during a liquidity stress event.
(c)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 90 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 90 percent ASF factor if it is funding provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is:
(1) A retail deposit (regardless of maturity or collateralization) other than a stable retail deposit or brokered deposit;
(2) A brokered reciprocal deposit where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(3) A sweep deposit that is deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the national bank or Federal savings association, a controlled subsidiary of the national bank or Federal savings association, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the national bank or Federal savings association is a controlled subsidiary, where the sweep deposit does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(4) A brokered deposit that is not a brokered reciprocal deposit or a sweep deposit, that is not held in a transactional account, and that matures one year or more from the calculation date.
(d)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 50 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 50 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) Unsecured wholesale funding that:
(i) Is not provided by a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) Matures less than one year from the calculation date; and
(iii) Is not a security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association or an operational deposit placed at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(2) A secured funding transaction with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is not a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The secured funding transaction matures less than one year from the calculation date; and
(iii) The secured funding transaction is not a collateralized deposit that is an operational deposit placed at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(3) Unsecured wholesale funding that:
(i) Is provided by a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) Matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date; and
(iii) Is not a security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association or an operational deposit;
(4) A secured funding transaction with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The secured funding transaction matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date; and
(iii) The secured funding transaction is not a collateralized deposit that is an operational deposit;
(5) A security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association that matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date;
(6) An operational deposit placed at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(7) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is not described in paragraphs (c) or (e)(2) of this section;
(8) A sweep deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is not described in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section;
(9) An NSFR liability owed to a retail customer or counterparty that is not a deposit and is not a security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(10) Any other NSFR liability that matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date and is not described in paragraphs (a) through (c) or (d)(1) through (d)(9) of this section.
(e)
NSFR liabilities assigned a zero percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a zero percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) A trade date payable that results from a purchase by the national bank or Federal savings association of a financial instrument, foreign currency, or commodity that is contractually required to settle within the lesser of the market standard settlement period for the particular transaction and five business days from the date of the sale;
(2) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is
not a brokered reciprocal deposit or sweep deposit, is not held in a transactional account, and matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(3) A security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(4) An NSFR liability with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The NSFR liability matures less than six months from the calculation date or has an open maturity; and
(iii) The NSFR liability is not a security issued by the national bank or Federal savings association or an operational deposit placed at the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(5) Any other NSFR liability that matures less than six months from the calculation date and is not described in paragraphs (a) through (d) or (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
§ 50.105
Calculation of required stable funding amount.
(a)
Required stable funding amount.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's RSF amount equals the national bank's or Federal savings association's required stable funding adjustment percentage as determined under paragraph (b) of this section multiplied by the sum of:
(1) The carrying values of a national bank's or Federal savings association's assets (other than amounts included in the calculation of the derivatives RSF amount pursuant to § 50.107(b)) and the undrawn amounts of a national bank's or Federal savings association's credit and liquidity facilities, in each case multiplied by the RSF factors applicable in § 50.106; and
(2) The national bank's or Federal savings association's derivatives RSF amount calculated pursuant to § 50.107(b).
(b)
Required stable funding adjustment percentage.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's required stable funding adjustment percentage is determined pursuant to table 1 to this paragraph (b).
Table 1 to Paragraph
(b)
—Required Stable Funding Adjustment Percentages
GSIB depository institution that is a national bank or Federal savings association
100
Category II national bank or Federal savings association
100
Category III national bank or Federal savings association that:
100
(1) Is a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part, in each case with $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding; or
(2) Has $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and is not a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part.
Category III national bank or Federal savings association that:
85
(1) Is a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part, in each case with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding; or
(2) Has less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and is not a consolidated subsidiary of (a) a covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10 or (b) a depository institution that meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (2)(ii)(A) and (B) of the definition of Category III national bank or Federal savings association in this part.
(c)
Transition into a different required stable funding adjustment percentage.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association whose required stable funding adjustment percentage increases from a lower to a higher required stable funding adjustment percentage may continue to use its previous lower required stable funding adjustment percentage until the first day of the third calendar quarter after the required stable funding adjustment percentage increases.
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association whose required stable funding adjustment percentage decreases from a higher to a lower required stable funding adjustment percentage must continue to use its previous higher required stable funding adjustment percentage until the first day of the first calendar quarter after the required stable funding adjustment percentage decreases.
[86 FR 9202, 9209, Feb. 11, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 9209, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 50.106
RSF factors.
(a)
Unencumbered assets and commitments.
All assets and undrawn amounts under credit and liquidity facilities, unless otherwise provided in § 50.107(b) relating to derivative transactions or paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, are assigned RSF factors as follows:
(1)
Unencumbered assets assigned a zero percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a zero percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) Currency and coin;
(ii) A cash item in the process of collection;
(iii) A Reserve Bank balance or other claim on a Reserve Bank that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(iv) A claim on a foreign central bank that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(v) A trade date receivable due to the national bank or Federal savings association resulting from the national bank's or Federal savings association's sale of a financial instrument, foreign currency, or commodity that is required to settle no later than the market standard, without extension, for the particular transaction, and that has yet to settle but is not more than five business days past the scheduled settlement date;
(vi) Any other level 1 liquid asset not described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section; or
(vii) A secured lending transaction with the following characteristics:
(A) The secured lending transaction matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(B) The secured lending transaction is secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(C) The borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; and
(D) The national bank or Federal savings association retains the right to rehypothecate the collateral provided by
the counterparty for the duration of the secured lending transaction.
(2)
Unencumbered assets and commitments assigned a 5 percent RSF factor.
An undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility extended by a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 5 percent RSF factor. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), the undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility is the entire unused amount of the facility that could be drawn upon within one year of the calculation date under the governing agreement.
(3)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 15 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 15 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A level 2A liquid asset; or
(ii) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(B) The borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; and
(C) The asset is not described in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section and is not an operational deposit described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 50 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 50 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A level 2B liquid asset;
(ii) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date;
(B) The borrower is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or a central bank; and
(C) The asset is not an operational deposit described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section;
(iii) An operational deposit placed by the national bank or Federal savings association at a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; or
(iv) An asset that is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) or (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iii) of this section that matures less than one year from the calculation date, including:
(A) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending where the borrower is a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or a central bank; or
(B) Lending to a retail customer or counterparty.
(5)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 65 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 65 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A retail mortgage that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is assigned a risk weight of no greater than 50 percent under subpart D of 12 CFR part 3; or
(ii) A secured lending transaction, unsecured wholesale lending, or lending to a retail customer or counterparty with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5)(i) of this section;
(B) The borrower is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof;
(C) The asset matures one year or more from the calculation date; and
(D) The asset is assigned a risk weight of no greater than 20 percent under subpart D of 12 CFR part 3.
(6)
Unencumbered assets assigned an 85 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned an 85 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A retail mortgage that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is assigned a risk weight of greater than 50 percent under subpart D of 12 CFR part 3;
(ii) A secured lending transaction, unsecured wholesale lending, or lending to a retail customer or counterparty with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6)(i) of this section;
(B) The borrower is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof;
(C) The asset matures one year or more from the calculation date; and
(D) The asset is assigned a risk weight of greater than 20 percent under subpart D of 12 CFR part 3;
(iii) A publicly traded common equity share that is not HQLA;
(iv) A security, other than a publicly traded common equity share, that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is not HQLA; or
(v) A commodity for which derivative transactions are traded on a U.S. board of trade or trading facility designated as a contract market under sections 5 and 6 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7 and 8) or on a U.S. swap execution facility registered under section 5h of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-3) or on another exchange, whether located in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States.
(7)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 100 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a national bank or Federal savings association is assigned a 100 percent RSF factor if it is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, including a secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending where the borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof and that matures one year or more from the calculation date.
(b)
Nonperforming assets.
An RSF factor of 100 percent is assigned to any asset that is past due by more than 90 days or nonaccrual.
(c)
Encumbered assets.
An encumbered asset, unless otherwise provided in § 50.107(b) relating to derivative transactions, is assigned an RSF factor as follows:
(1)(i)
Encumbered assets with less than six months remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with less than six months remaining in the encumbrance period, the same RSF factor is assigned to the asset as would be assigned if the asset were not encumbered.
(ii)
Encumbered assets with six months or more, but less than one year, remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with six months or more, but less than one year, remaining in the encumbrance period:
(A) If the asset would be assigned an RSF factor of 50 percent or less under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section if the asset were not encumbered, an RSF factor of 50 percent is assigned to the asset.
(B) If the asset would be assigned an RSF factor of greater than 50 percent under paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(7) of this section if the asset were not encumbered, the same RSF factor is assigned to the asset as would be assigned if it were not encumbered.
(iii)
Encumbered assets with one year or more remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with one year or more remaining in the encumbrance period, an RSF factor of 100 percent is assigned to the asset.
(2)
Assets encumbered for period longer than remaining maturity.
If an asset is encumbered for an encumbrance period longer than the asset's maturity, the asset is assigned an RSF factor under paragraph (c)(1) of this section based on the length of the encumbrance period.
(3)
Segregated account assets.
An asset held in a segregated account maintained pursuant to statutory or regulatory requirements for the protection of customer assets is not considered encumbered for purposes of this paragraph solely because such asset is held in the segregated account.
(d)
Off-balance sheet rehypothecated assets.
When an NSFR liability of a national bank or Federal savings association is secured by an off-balance sheet asset or results from the national bank or Federal savings association selling an off-balance sheet asset (for instance, in the case of a short sale), other than an off-balance sheet asset received by the national bank or Federal savings association as variation margin under a derivative transaction:
(1) If the national bank or Federal savings association received the off-balance sheet asset under a lending transaction, an RSF factor is assigned to the lending transaction as if it were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the lending transaction;
(2) If the national bank or Federal savings association received the off-balance sheet asset under an asset exchange, an RSF factor is assigned to the asset provided by the national
bank or Federal savings association in the asset exchange as if the provided asset were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the provided asset; or
(3) If the national bank or Federal savings association did not receive the off-balance sheet asset under a lending transaction or asset exchange, an RSF factor is assigned to the on-balance sheet asset resulting from the rehypothecation of the off-balance sheet asset as if the on-balance sheet asset were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the transaction through which the off-balance sheet asset was received.
§ 50.107
Calculation of NSFR derivatives amounts.
(a)
General requirement.
A national bank or Federal savings association must calculate its derivatives RSF amount and certain components of its ASF amount relating to the national bank's or Federal savings association's derivative transactions (which includes cleared derivative transactions of a customer with respect to which the national bank or Federal savings association is acting as agent for the customer that are included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet under GAAP) in accordance with this section.
(b)
Calculation of required stable funding amount relating to derivative transactions.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's derivatives RSF amount equals the sum of:
(1)
Current derivative transaction values.
The national bank's or Federal savings association's NSFR derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, multiplied by an RSF factor of 100 percent;
(2)
Variation margin provided.
The carrying value of variation margin provided by the national bank or Federal savings association under each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set, to the extent the variation margin reduces the national bank's or Federal savings association's derivatives liability value under the derivative transaction or QMNA netting set, as calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, multiplied by an RSF factor of zero percent;
(3)
Excess variation margin provided.
The carrying value of variation margin provided by the national bank or Federal savings association under each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set in excess of the amount described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for each derivative transaction or QMNA netting set, multiplied by the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the variation margin pursuant to § 50.106;
(4)
Variation margin received.
The carrying value of variation margin received by the national bank or Federal savings association, multiplied by the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the variation margin pursuant to § 50.106;
(5)
Potential valuation changes.
(i) An amount equal to 5 percent of the sum of the gross derivative values of the national bank or Federal savings association that are liabilities, as calculated under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, for each of the national bank's or Federal savings association's derivative transactions not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each of its QMNA netting sets, multiplied by an RSF factor of 100 percent;
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (5)(i) of this section, the gross derivative value of a derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement or of a QMNA netting set is equal to the value to the national bank or Federal savings association, calculated as if no variation margin had been exchanged and no settlement payments had been made based on changes in the value of the derivative transaction or QMNA netting set.
(6)
Contributions to central counterparty mutualized loss sharing arrangements.
The fair value of a national bank's or Federal savings association's
contribution to a central counterparty's mutualized loss sharing arrangement (regardless of whether the contribution is included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet), multiplied by an RSF factor of 85 percent; and
(7)
Initial margin provided.
The fair value of initial margin provided by the national bank or Federal savings association for derivative transactions (regardless of whether the initial margin is included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet), which does not include initial margin provided by the national bank or Federal savings association for cleared derivative transactions with respect to which the national bank or Federal savings association is acting as agent for a customer and the national bank or Federal savings association does not guarantee the obligations of the customer's counterparty to the customer under the derivative transaction (such initial margin would be assigned an RSF factor pursuant to § 50.106 to the extent the initial margin is included on the national bank's or Federal savings association's balance sheet), multiplied by an RSF factor equal to the higher of 85 percent or the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the initial margin pursuant to § 50.106.
(c)
Calculation of available stable funding amount relating to derivative transactions.
The following amounts of a national bank or Federal savings association are assigned a zero percent ASF factor:
(1) The national bank's or Federal savings association's NSFR derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(2) The carrying value of NSFR liabilities in the form of an obligation to return initial margin or variation margin received by the national bank or Federal savings association.
(d)
Calculation of NSFR derivatives asset or liability amount.
(1) A national bank's or Federal savings association's NSFR derivatives asset amount is the greater of:
(i) Zero; and
(ii) The national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, less the national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2) A national bank's or Federal savings association's NSFR derivatives liability amount is the greater of:
(i) Zero; and
(ii) The national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, less the national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(e)
Calculation of total derivatives asset and liability amounts.
(1) A national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives asset amount is the sum of the national bank's or Federal savings association's derivatives asset values, as calculated under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, for each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set.
(2) A national bank's or Federal savings association's total derivatives liability amount is the sum of the national bank's or Federal savings association's derivatives liability values, as calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, for each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set.
(f)
Calculation of derivatives asset and liability values.
For each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set:
(1) The derivatives asset value is equal to the asset value to the national bank or Federal savings association, after taking into account:
(i) Any variation margin received by the national bank or Federal savings association that is in the form of cash and meets the following conditions:
(A) The variation margin is not segregated;
(B) The variation margin is received in connection with a derivative transaction that is governed by a QMNA or other contract between the counterparties to the derivative transaction,
which stipulates that the counterparties agree to settle any payment obligations on a net basis, taking into account any variation margin received or provided;
(C) The variation margin is calculated and transferred on a daily basis based on mark-to-fair value of the derivative contract; and
(D) The variation margin is in a currency specified as an acceptable currency to settle obligations in the relevant governing contract; and
(ii) Any variation margin received by the national bank or Federal savings association that is in the form of level 1 liquid assets and meets the conditions of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section provided the national bank or Federal savings association retains the right to rehypothecate the asset for the duration of time that the asset is posted as variation margin to the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(2) The derivatives liability value is equal to the liability value of the national bank or Federal savings association, after taking into account any variation margin provided by the national bank or Federal savings association.
§ 50.108
Funding related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
(a)
Treatment of Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, available stable funding amounts and required stable funding amounts related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and the assets securing Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are excluded from the calculation of a national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio calculated under § 50.100(b).
(b)
Exception.
To the extent the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is secured by securities, debt obligations, or other instruments issued by the national bank or Federal savings association or one of its consolidated subsidiaries, the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and assets securing the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are not subject to paragraph (a) of this section and the available stable funding amount and required stable funding amount must be included in the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio calculated under § 50.100(b).
§ 50.109
Rules for consolidation.
(a)
Consolidated subsidiary available stable funding amount.
For available stable funding of a legal entity that is a consolidated subsidiary of a national bank or Federal savings association, including a consolidated subsidiary organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, the national bank or Federal savings association may include the available stable funding of the consolidated subsidiary in its ASF amount up to:
(1) The RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, as calculated by the national bank or Federal savings association for the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio under this part; plus
(2) Any amount in excess of the RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, as calculated by the national bank or Federal savings association for the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio under this part, to the extent the consolidated subsidiary may transfer assets to the top-tier national bank or Federal savings association, taking into account statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, such as sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223).
(b)
Required consolidation procedures.
To the extent a national bank or Federal savings association includes an ASF amount in excess of the RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, the national bank or Federal savings association must implement and maintain written procedures to identify and monitor applicable statutory, regulatory, contractual, supervisory, or other restrictions on transferring assets from any of its consolidated subsidiaries. These procedures must document which types of transactions the national bank or Federal savings association could use to transfer assets
from a consolidated subsidiary to the national bank or Federal savings association and how these types of transactions comply with applicable statutory, regulatory, contractual, supervisory, or other restrictions.

# Subpart L—Net Stable Funding Shortfall

# Source:
86 FR 9202, 9209, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.110
NSFR shortfall: Supervisory framework.
(a)
Notification requirements.
A national bank or Federal savings association must notify the OCC no later than 10 business days, or such other period as the OCC may otherwise require by written notice, following the date that any event has occurred that would cause or has caused the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio to be less than 1.0 as required under § 50.100.
(b)
Liquidity Plan.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association must within 10 business days, or such other period as the OCC may otherwise require by written notice, provide to the OCC a plan for achieving a net stable funding ratio equal to or greater than 1.0 as required under § 50.100 if:
(i) The national bank or Federal savings association has or should have provided notice, pursuant to § 50.110(a), that the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio is, or will become, less than 1.0 as required under § 50.100;
(ii) The national bank's or Federal savings association's reports or disclosures to the OCC indicate that the national bank's or Federal savings association's net stable funding ratio is less than 1.0 as required under § 50.100; or
(iii) The OCC notifies the national bank or Federal savings association in writing that a plan is required and provides a reason for requiring such a plan.
(2) The plan must include, as applicable:
(i) An assessment of the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity profile;
(ii) The actions the national bank or Federal savings association has taken and will take to achieve a net stable funding ratio equal to or greater than 1.0 as required under § 50.100, including:
(A) A plan for adjusting the national bank's or Federal savings association's liquidity profile;
(B) A plan for remediating any operational or management issues that contributed to noncompliance with subpart K of this part; and
(iii) An estimated time frame for achieving full compliance with § 50.100.
(3) The national bank or Federal savings association must report to the OCC at least monthly, or such other frequency as required by the OCC, on progress to achieve full compliance with § 50.100.
(c)
Supervisory and enforcement actions.
The OCC may, at its discretion, take additional supervisory or enforcement actions to address noncompliance with the minimum net stable funding ratio and other requirements of subparts K through N of this part (see also § 50.2(c)).

# Subpart M—Transitions
§ 50.120
Transitions.
(a)
Initial application.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association that initially becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 50.1(b)(1)(i) after July 1, 2021, must comply with the requirements of subparts K through M of this part beginning on the first day of the third calendar quarter after which the national bank or Federal savings association becomes subject to this part.
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 50.1(b)(1)(ii) must comply with the requirements of subparts K through M of this part subject to a transition period specified by the OCC.
(b)
Transition to a different required stable funding adjustment percentage.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association whose required stable funding adjustment percentage changes is subject to the transition periods as set forth in § 50.105(c).
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association institution that is no longer subject to the minimum stable
funding requirement of this part pursuant to § 50.1(b)(1)(i) based on the size of total consolidated assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, total nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, or off-balance sheet exposure calculated in accordance with the Call Report, or instructions to the FR Y-9LP, the FR Y-15, or equivalent reporting form, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters may cease compliance with the requirements of subparts K through M of this part as of the first day of the first calendar quarter after it is no longer subject to § 50.1(b).
(c)
Reservation of authority.
The OCC may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the OCC determines such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the OCC will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with the requirements of subparts K through M of this part, and the actions the national bank or Federal savings association is taking to come into compliance with the requirements of subparts K through M of this part.
[86 FR 9210, Feb. 11, 2021]
Pt. 51

# PART 51—RECEIVERSHIPS FOR UNINSURED NATIONAL BANKS
Sec.
51.1
Purpose and scope.
51.2
Appointment of receiver.
51.3
Notice of appointment of receiver.
51.4
Claims.
51.5
Order of priorities.
51.6
Administrative expenses of receiver.
51.7
Powers and duties of receiver; disposition of fiduciary and custodial accounts.
51.8
Payment of claims and dividends to shareholders.
51.9
Termination of receivership.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 16, 93a, 191-200, 481, 482, 1831c, and 1867.

# Source:
81 FR 92602, Dec. 20, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part sets out procedures for receiverships of national banks conducted by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) under the receivership provisions of the National Bank Act (NBA). These receivership provisions apply to national banks that are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to the appointment of a receiver for uninsured national banks (uninsured banks) and the operation of a receivership after appointment of a receiver for an uninsured bank under 12 U.S.C. 191.
31
31
This part does not apply to receiverships for uninsured Federal branches or uninsured Federal agencies.
§ 51.2
Appointment of receiver.
(a)
In general.
The Comptroller of the Currency (Comptroller) may appoint any person, including the OCC or another government agency, as receiver for an uninsured bank. The receiver performs its duties under the direction of the Comptroller and serves at the will of the Comptroller. The Comptroller may require the receiver to post a bond or other security. The receiver, with the approval of the Comptroller, may employ such staff and enter into contracts for professional services as are necessary to carry out the receivership.
(b)
Grounds for appointment.
The Comptroller may appoint a receiver for an uninsured bank based on any of the grounds specified in 12 U.S.C. 191(a).
(c)
Judicial review.
If the Comptroller appoints a receiver for an uninsured bank, the bank may seek judicial review of the appointment as provided in 12 U.S.C. 191(b).
§ 51.3
Notice of appointment of receiver.
Upon appointment of a receiver for an uninsured bank, the OCC will provide notice to the public of the receivership, including by publication in a newspaper of general circulation for three consecutive months. The notice of the receivership will provide instructions for creditors and other claimants seeking to submit claims with the receiver for the uninsured bank.
§ 51.4
Claims.
(a)
Submission of claims for consideration by the OCC.
(1) Persons who have claims against the receivership for an uninsured bank may present such claims, along with supporting documentation, for consideration by the OCC. The OCC will determine the validity and approve the amounts of such claims.
(2) The OCC will establish a date by which any person seeking to present a claim against the uninsured bank for consideration by the OCC must present their claim for determination. The deadline for filing such claims will not be less than 30 days after the end of the three-month notice period in § 51.3.
(3) The OCC will allow any claim against the uninsured bank received on or before the deadline for presenting claims if such claim is established to the OCC's satisfaction by the information on the uninsured bank's books and records or otherwise submitted. The OCC may disallow any portion of any claim by a creditor or claim of a security, preference, set-off, or priority which is not established to the satisfaction of the OCC.
(b)
Submission of claims to a court.
Persons with claims against an uninsured bank in receivership may present their claims to a court of competent jurisdiction for adjudication. Such persons must submit a copy of any final judgment received from the court to the OCC, to participate in ratable dividends along with other proved claims.
(c)
Right of set-off.
If a person with a claim against an uninsured bank in receivership also has an obligation owed to the bank, the claim and obligation will be set off against each other and only the net balance remaining after set-off shall be considered as a claim, provided such set-off is otherwise legally valid.
§ 51.5
Order of priorities.
The OCC will pay receivership expenses and proved claims against the uninsured bank in receivership in the following order of priority:
(a) Administrative expenses of the receiver;
(b) Unsecured creditors of the uninsured bank, including secured creditors to the extent their claim exceeds their valid and enforceable security interest;
(c) Creditors of the uninsured bank, if any, whose claims are subordinated to general creditor claims; and
(d) Shareholders of the uninsured bank.
§ 51.6
Administrative expenses of receiver.
(a)
Priority of administrative expenses.
All administrative expenses of the receiver for an uninsured bank shall be paid out of the assets of the bank in receivership before payment of claims against the receivership.
(b)
Scope of administrative expenses.
Administrative expenses of the receiver for an uninsured bank include those expenses incurred by the receiver in maintaining banking operations during the receivership, to preserve assets of the uninsured bank, while liquidating or otherwise resolving the affairs of the uninsured bank. Such expenses include pre-receivership and post-receivership obligations that the receiver determines are necessary and appropriate to facilitate the orderly liquidation or other resolution of the uninsured bank in receivership.
(c)
Types of administrative expenses.
Administrative expenses for the receiver of an uninsured bank include:
(1) Salaries, costs, and other expenses of the receiver and its staff, and costs of contracts entered into by the receiver for professional services relating to performing receivership duties; and
(2) Expenses necessary for the operation of the uninsured bank, including wages and salaries of employees, expenses for professional services, contractual rent pursuant to an existing lease or rental agreement, and payments to third-party or affiliated service providers, that in the opinion of the receiver are of benefit to the receivership, until the date the receiver repudiates, terminates, cancels, or otherwise discontinues the applicable contract.
§ 51.7
Powers and duties of receiver; disposition of fiduciary and custodial accounts.
(a)
Marshalling of assets.
In resolving the affairs of an uninsured bank in receivership, the receiver:
(1) Takes possession of the books, records and other property and assets of the uninsured bank, including the value of collateral pledged by the uninsured bank to the extent it exceeds valid and enforceable security interests of a claimant;
(2) Collects all debts, dues and claims belonging to the uninsured bank, including claims remaining after set-off;
(3) Sells or compromises all bad or doubtful debts, subject to approval by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(4) Sells the real and personal property of the uninsured bank, subject to approval by a court of competent jurisdiction, on such terms as the court shall direct; and
(5) Deposits all receivership funds collected from the liquidation of the uninsured bank in an account designated by the OCC.
(b)
Disposition of fiduciary and custodial accounts.
The receiver for an uninsured bank closes the bank's fiduciary and custodial appointments and accounts or transfers some or all of such accounts to successor fiduciaries and custodians, in accordance with 12 CFR 9.16, and other applicable Federal law.
(c)
Other powers.
The receiver for an uninsured bank may exercise other rights, privileges, and powers authorized for receivers of national banks under the NBA and the common law of receiverships as applied by the courts to receiverships of national banks conducted under the NBA.
(d)
Reports to OCC.
The receiver for an uninsured bank shall make periodic reports to the OCC on the status and proceedings of the receivership.
(e)
Receiver subject to removal; modification of fees.
(1) The Comptroller may remove and replace the receiver for an uninsured bank if, in the Comptroller's discretion, the receiver is not conducting the receivership in accordance with applicable Federal laws or regulations or fails to comply with decisions of the Comptroller with respect to the conduct of the receivership or claims against the receivership.
(2) The Comptroller may reduce the fees of the receiver for an uninsured bank if, in the Comptroller's discretion, the Comptroller finds the performance of the receiver to be deficient, or the fees of the receiver to be excessive, unreasonable, or beyond the scope of the work assigned to the receiver.
§ 51.8
Payment of claims and dividends to shareholders.
(a)
Claims.
(1) After the administrative expenses of the receivership have been paid, the OCC shall make ratable dividends from time to time of available receivership funds according to the priority described in § 51.5, based on the claims that have been proved to the OCC's satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) Dividend payments to creditors and other claimants of an uninsured bank will be made solely from receivership funds, if any, paid to the OCC by the receiver after payment of the expenses of the receiver.
(b)
Fiduciary and custodial assets.
Assets held by an uninsured bank in a fiduciary or custodial capacity, as designated on the bank's books and records, will not be considered as part of the bank's general assets and liabilities held in connection with its other business, and will not be considered a source for payment of unrelated claims of creditors and other claimants.
(c)
Timing of dividends.
The payment of dividends, if any, under paragraph (a) of this section, on proved or adjudicated claims will be made periodically, at the discretion of the OCC, as the receiver liquidates the assets of the uninsured bank.
(d)
Distribution to shareholders.
After all administrative expenses of the receiver and proved claims of creditors of the uninsured bank have been paid in full, to the extent there are receivership assets to make such payments, any remaining proceeds shall be paid to the shareholders, or their legal representatives, in proportion to their stock ownership.
§ 51.9
Termination of receivership.
If there are assets remaining after full payment of the expenses of the receiver and all claims of creditors for an uninsured bank and all fiduciary accounts of the bank have been closed or transferred to a successor fiduciary and fiduciary powers surrendered, the Comptroller shall call a meeting of the shareholders of the uninsured bank, as
provided in 12 U.S.C. 197, for the shareholders to decide the manner in which the liquidation will continue. The liquidation may continue by:
(a) Continuing the receivership of the uninsured bank under the direction of the Comptroller; or
(b) Ending the receivership and oversight by the Comptroller and replacing the receiver with a liquidating agent to proceed to liquidate the remaining assets of the uninsured bank for the benefit of the shareholders, as set out in 12 U.S.C. 197.
Pt. 52

# PART 52—REGULATORY REPORTING
Sec.
52.1
Authority and purpose.
52.2
Definitions.
52.3
Reduced reporting.
52.4
Reservation of authority.
52.5
Temporary relief.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 93a, 161, 1463(a), 1464(v), and 1817(a)(12).

# Source:
84 FR 29050, June 21, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 52.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 93a, 161, 1463(a), 1464(v), and 1817(a)(12).
(b)
Purpose.
This part establishes a reduced reporting requirement for a covered depository institution making its reports of condition for the first and third calendar quarters of a year.
§ 52.2
Definitions.
Covered depository institution
means a national bank, Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch that meets the following criteria:
(1) Has less than $5 billion in total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition for the second calendar quarter of the preceding year;
(2) Has no foreign offices, as defined in this section;
(3) Is not required to or has not elected to use 12 CFR part 3, subpart E (for advanced approaches banks), to calculate its risk-based capital requirements;
(4) Is not a large institution or highly complex institution, as such terms are defined in 12 CFR 327.8, or treated as a large institution, as requested under 12 CFR 327.16(f); and
(5) Is not subject to the filing requirements for the FFIEC 002 report of condition.
Foreign country
refers to one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States.
Foreign office
means:
(1) A branch or consolidated subsidiary in a foreign country, unless the branch is located on a U.S. military facility;
(2) An international banking facility as such term is defined in 12 CFR 204.8;
(3) A majority-owned Edge Act or Agreement subsidiary as defined in 12 CFR 28.2, including both its U.S. and its foreign offices; and
(4) For an institution chartered or headquartered in any U.S. state or the District of Columbia, a branch or consolidated subsidiary located in a U.S. territory or possession.
Report of condition
means the FFIEC 031, FFIEC 041, or FFIEC 051 versions of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) or the FFIEC 002 (Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks), as applicable, and as they may be amended or superseded from time to time in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. chapter 35.
Total consolidated assets
means total assets as reported in an institution's report of condition.
§ 52.3
Reduced reporting.
A covered depository institution may file the FFIEC 051 version of the Call Report, or any successor thereto, to satisfy its requirement to file a report of condition for the first and third calendar quarters of a year.
§ 52.4
Reservation of authority.
The OCC may determine that a covered depository institution shall not use the reduced reporting in § 52.3. In making this determination, the OCC will consider whether the institution is significantly engaged in complex, specialized, or higher risk activities, for which a reduced reporting requirement
would not provide sufficient information. The institution has 30 days following notification from the OCC to inform the OCC, in writing, of why it should continue to be eligible to use reduced reporting or cannot cease using reduced reporting in the OCC's proposed timeframe. The OCC will make a final decision after reviewing any response. Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the OCC's authority to obtain information from a covered depository institution.
§ 52.5
Temporary relief.
In determining whether it meets the asset threshold in paragraph (1) of the definition of “covered depository institution” in § 52.5 of this part, for purposes of a report required to be submitted for calendar year 2021, a national bank, Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch may refer to the lesser of its total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition as of December 31, 2019, and its total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition for the second calendar quarter of 2020.
[85 FR 77359, Dec. 2, 2020]
Pt. 53

# PART 53—COMPUTER-SECURITY INCIDENT NOTIFICATION
Sec.
53.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
53.2
Definitions.
53.3
Notification.
53.4
Bank service provider notification.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 161, 481, 1463, 1464, 1861-1867, and 3102.

# Source:
86 FR 66442, Nov. 23, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 53.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 161, 481, 1463, 1464, 1861-1867, and 3102.
(b)
Purpose.
This part promotes the timely notification of computer-security incidents that may materially and adversely affect Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)-supervised institutions.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to all national banks, Federal savings associations, and Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks. This part also applies to their bank service providers as defined in § 53.2(b)(2).
§ 53.2
Definitions.
(a) Except as modified in this part, or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in this part have the same meanings as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1813.
(b) For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.
(1)
Banking organization
means a national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank; provided, however, that no designated financial market utility shall be considered a banking organization.
(2)
Bank service provider
means a bank service company or other person that performs covered services; provided, however, that no designated financial market utility shall be considered a bank service provider.
(3)
Business line
means a product or service offered by a banking organization to serve its customers or support other business needs.
(4)
Computer-security incident
is an occurrence that results in actual harm to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits.
(5)
Covered services
are services performed, by a person, that are subject to the Bank Service Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1861-1867).
(6)
Designated financial market utility
has the same meaning as set forth at 12 U.S.C. 5462(4).
(7)
Notification incident
is a computer-security incident that has materially disrupted or degraded, or is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, a banking organization's—
(i) Ability to carry out banking operations, activities, or processes, or deliver banking products and services to a material portion of its customer base, in the ordinary course of business;
(ii) Business line(s), including associated operations, services, functions, and support, that upon failure would result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value; or
(iii) Operations, including associated services, functions and support, as applicable, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(8)
Person
has the same meaning as set forth at 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(8)(A).
§ 53.3
Notification.
A banking organization must notify the appropriate OCC supervisory office, or OCC-designated point of contact, about a notification incident through email, telephone, or other similar methods that the OCC may prescribe. The OCC must receive this notification from the banking organization as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the banking organization determines that a notification incident has occurred.
§ 53.4
Bank service provider notification.
(a) A bank service provider is required to notify at least one bank-designated point of contact at each affected banking organization customer as soon as possible when the bank service provider determines that it has experienced a computer-security incident that has materially disrupted or degraded, or is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, covered services provided to such banking organization for four or more hours.
(1) A bank-designated point of contact is an email address, phone number, or any other contact(s), previously provided to the bank service provider by the banking organization customer.
(2) If the banking organization customer has not previously provided a bank-designated point of contact, such notification shall be made to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Information Officer of the banking organization customer, or two individuals of comparable responsibilities, through any reasonable means.
(b) The notification requirement in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any scheduled maintenance, testing, or software update previously communicated to a banking organization customer.
PARTS 54-99 [RESERVED]
Pt. 100

# PART 100—RULES APPLICABLE TO SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 5412(b)(2)(B), 5414(b)(2).

# Source:
76 FR 48956, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.1
Certain regulations superseded.
Effective on July 21, 2011, section 312(b)(2)(B) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010)) (12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(B)) transferred rulemaking authority of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) relating to all savings associations, both state and Federal to the OCC. The regulations set forth in parts 1 through 197 of this chapter I applying to Federal savings associations and state savings associations, as those terms are defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)), supersede corresponding regulations set forth in parts 500 through 591 of chapter V of the Code of Federal Regulations that were applicable to such entities prior to July 21, 2011.
[76 FR 48956, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28479, May 18, 2015]
§ 100.2
Waiver authority.
The Comptroller of the Currency may, for good cause and to the extent permitted by statute, waive the applicability of any provision of parts 1 through 197 of this chapter I, as applicable, with respect to Federal savings associations.
[76 FR 48956, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28479, May 18, 2015]
Pt. 101

# PART 101—COVERED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
101.1
Authority and purposes.
101.2
Definitions and computation of time.
101.3
Procedures.
101.4
Treatment of covered savings associations.
101.5
Nonconforming subsidiaries, assets, and activities.
101.6
Termination.
101.7
Reelection.
101.8
Evasion.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1464a, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
84 FR 24005, May 24, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 101.1
Authority and purposes.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to sections 3, 4, 5, and 5A of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) (12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, and 1464a), section 5239A of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 93a), and section 312(b)(2)(B) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(B)).
(b)
Purposes.
This part establishes standards and procedures for a Federal savings association to elect to operate as a covered savings association pursuant to section 5A of the HOLA and clarifies the requirements for the treatment of covered savings associations. It also establishes standards and procedures to terminate an election and to reelect to operate as a covered savings association.
§ 101.2
Definitions and computation of time.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)
Covered savings association
means a Federal savings association that has made an election that is in effect in accordance with § 101.3(b).
(2)
Effective date of the election
means, with respect to a Federal savings association, the date on which the Federal savings association's election to operate as a covered savings association takes effect pursuant to § 101.3(b).
(3)
Nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity.
(i) With respect to a covered savings association:
(A) Means any subsidiary, asset, or activity that is not permissible for a covered savings association or, if permissible, is being operated, held, or conducted in a manner that exceeds the limit applicable to a covered savings association; and
(B) Includes an investment in a subsidiary or other entity that is not permissible for a covered savings association; and
(ii) With respect to a Federal savings association that has terminated an election to operate as a covered savings association:
(A) Means any subsidiary, asset, or activity that is not permissible for a Federal savings association or, if permissible, is being operated, held, or conducted in a manner that exceeds the limit applicable to a Federal savings association; and
(B) Includes an investment in a subsidiary or other entity that is not permissible for a Federal savings association.
(4)
Similarly located national bank
means, with respect to a covered savings association, a national bank that has its main office situated in the same location as the home office of the covered savings association.
(b)
Computation of time.
The OCC will compute a period of days for purposes of this part in accordance with 12 CFR 5.12.
§ 101.3
Procedures.
(a)
Notice
—(1)
Submission.
A Federal savings association that had total consolidated assets of $20 billion or less as of December 31, 2017, as reported on the Federal savings association's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for December 31, 2017, may make an election to operate as a covered savings association by submitting a notice to the OCC.
(2)
Contents.
The notice shall:
(i) Be signed by a duly authorized officer of the Federal savings association; and
(ii) Identify and describe each nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity that the Federal savings association operates, holds, or conducts at the time it submits the notice, each of which must be divested, conformed, or discontinued pursuant to § 101.5.
(b)
Effective date of the election
—(1)
In general.
An election to operate as a covered savings association shall take effect on the date that is 60 days after the date on which the OCC receives the notice submitted under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Earlier notice.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the OCC may notify a Federal savings association in writing prior to the expiration of 60 days that it is eligible to make an election, and the election shall take effect on the date the OCC so
notifies the Federal savings association.
§ 101.4
Treatment of covered savings associations.
(a)
In general
—(1)
National bank activities.
Except as provided in this section, a covered savings association may engage in any activity that is permissible for a similarly located national bank to engage in as part of, or incidental to, the business of banking, or explicitly authorized by statute for a national bank, subject to the same authorization, terms, and conditions that would apply to a similarly located national bank, as determined by the OCC for purposes of this part.
(2)
Treatment as a Federal savings association.
A covered savings association shall continue to comply with the provisions of law that apply to Federal savings associations for purposes of:
(i) Governance (including incorporation, bylaws, boards of directors, shareholders, members, and distribution of dividends);
(ii) Consolidation, merger, dissolution, conversion (including conversion to a stock bank or to another charter), conservatorship, and receivership;
(iii) Provisions of law applicable only to Federal mutual savings associations;
(iv) Offers and sales of securities at an office of a Federal savings association;
(v) Savings bank activities authorized by section 5(i)(4) of HOLA;
(vi) Issuance of subordinated debt securities and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock;
(vii) Increases in permanent capital of a Federal stock savings association;
(viii) Rules of practice and procedure in adjudicatory proceedings;
(ix) Rules for investigative proceedings and formal examination proceedings;
(x) Removals, suspensions, and prohibitions where a crime is charged or proven;
(xi) Security procedures;
(xii) Maintenance of records and recordkeeping and confirmation requirements for securities transactions;
(xiii) Accounting and disclosure standards;
(xiv) Nondiscrimination; and
(xv) Advertising.
(b)
Existing branches.
A covered savings association may continue to operate any branch or agency that the covered savings association operated on the effective date of the election.
(c)
Assets greater than $20 billion.
A covered savings association may continue to operate as a covered savings association if, after the effective date of the election, it has total consolidated assets greater than $20 billion.
§ 101.5
Nonconforming subsidiaries, assets, and activities.
(a)
Divestiture, conformance, or discontinuation.
A covered savings association shall divest, conform, or discontinue a nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity at the earliest time that prudent judgment dictates but not later than two years after the effective date of the election. The OCC may require a covered savings association to submit a plan to divest, conform, or discontinue a nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity.
(b)
Extension.
The OCC may grant a covered savings association extensions of not more than two years each up to a maximum of eight years if the OCC determines that:
(1) The covered savings association has made a good faith effort to divest, conform, or discontinue the nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity;
(2) Divestiture, conformance, or discontinuation would have a material adverse financial effect on the covered savings association; and
(3) Retention or continuation of the nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity is consistent with the safe and sound operation of the covered savings association.
(c)
Applicable law.
Until a covered savings association divests, conforms, or discontinues a nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity, the nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity shall continue to be subject to the same provisions of law that applied to the nonconforming subsidiary, asset, or activity on the day before the effective date of the election, including any amendments to those provisions of law.
§ 101.6
Termination.
(a)
Termination.
A covered savings association may terminate its election to operate as a covered savings association, after an appropriate period of time as determined by the OCC, by submitting a notice to the OCC.
(b)
Procedures.
A covered savings association wishing to terminate its election shall comply with, and shall be subject to, the provisions of §§ 101.2, 101.3, and 101.5, except that:
(1) The provisions of §§ 101.3 and 101.5 shall be applied by substituting “covered savings association” for “Federal savings association” and “Federal savings association” for “covered savings association” each place those terms appear in those sections;
(2) Section 101.3(a)(1) shall not apply; and
(3) Sections 101.3 and 101.5 shall be applied by substituting “effective date of the termination” for “effective date of the election.”
(c)
Applicable law.
On and after the effective date of the termination, a Federal savings association that has terminated its election to operate as a covered savings association shall be subject to the same provisions of law as a Federal savings association that has not made an election under this part.
§ 101.7
Reelection.
(a)
Reelection.
A Federal savings association that has terminated its election to operate as a covered savings association may submit a notice to reelect to operate as a covered savings association, if at least five years have elapsed since the effective date of the termination. Upon determining that good cause exists, the OCC may permit a Federal savings association to reelect to operate as a covered savings association prior to the expiration of the five-year period.
(b)
Procedures and treatment.
A Federal savings association reelecting to operate as a covered savings association shall comply with, and shall be subject to, the provisions of this part as if it were making an election for the first time.
§ 101.8
Evasion.
The OCC may disapprove any notice submitted pursuant to this part if the OCC determines that the notice is made for the purpose of evading § 101.5, including as that section applies to a covered savings association terminating an election.
PARTS 102-127 [RESERVED]
Pt. 128

# PART 128—NONDISCRIMINATION REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
128.1
Definitions.
128.2
Nondiscrimination in lending and other services.
128.3
Nondiscrimination in applications.
128.4
Nondiscriminatory advertising.
128.5
Equal Housing Lender Poster.
128.6
Loan application register.
128.7
Nondiscrimination in employment.
128.8
Complaints.
128.9
Guidelines relating to nondiscrimination in lending.
128.10
Supplementary guidelines.
128.11
Nondiscriminatory appraisal and underwriting.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 48978, August 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128.1
Definitions.
As used in this part 128—
(a)
Application.
For purposes of this part, an application for a loan or other service is as defined in Regulation C, 12 CFR 203.2(b).
(b)
Savings association.
The term “savings association” means any Federal savings association as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2).
(c)
Dwelling.
The term “dwelling” means a residential structure (whether or not it is attached to real property) located in a state of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The term includes an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, or mobile or manufactured home.
§ 128.2
Nondiscrimination in lending and other services.
(a) No savings association may deny a loan or other service, or discriminate in the purchase of loans or securities or
discriminate in fixing the amount, interest rate, duration, application procedures, collection or enforcement procedures, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other service on the basis of the age or location of the dwelling, or on the basis of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status (having one or more children under the age of 18), marital status, age (provided the person has the capacity to contract) or national origin of:
(1) An applicant or joint applicant;
(2) Any person associated with an applicant or joint applicant regarding such loan or other service, or with the purposes of such loan or other service;
(3) The present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling(s) for which such loan or other service is to be made or given;
(4) The present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of other dwellings in the vicinity of the dwelling(s) for which such loan or other service is to be made or given.
(b) A savings association shall consider without prejudice the combined income of joint applicants for a loan or other service.
(c) No savings association may discriminate against an applicant for a loan or other service on any prohibited basis (as defined in 12 CFR 202.2(z) and 24 CFR part 100).

# Note to § 128.2:
See also,
§ 128.9(b) and (c).
§ 128.3
Nondiscrimination in applications.
(a) No savings association may discourage, or refuse to allow, receive, or consider, any application, request, or inquiry regarding a loan or other service, or discriminate in imposing conditions upon, or in processing, any such application, request, or inquiry on the basis of the age or location of the dwelling, or on the basis of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status (having one or more children under the age of 18), marital status, age (provided the person has the capacity to contract), national origin, or other characteristics prohibited from consideration in § 128.2(c) of this part, of the prospective borrower or other person, who:
(1) Makes application for any such loan or other service;
(2) Requests forms or papers to be used to make application for any such loan or other service; or
(3) Inquires about the availability of such loan or other service.
(b) A savings association shall inform each inquirer of his or her right to file a written loan application, and to receive a copy of the association's underwriting standards.

# Note to § 128.3:
See also,
§ 128.9(a) through (d).
§ 128.4
Nondiscriminatory advertising.
No savings association may directly or indirectly engage in any form of advertising that implies or suggests a policy of discrimination or exclusion in violation of title VIII of the Civil Rights Acts of 1968, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, or this part 128. Advertisements for any loan for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling or any loan secured by a dwelling shall include a facsimile of the following logotype and legend:
ER09AU11.000
§ 128.5
Equal Housing Lender Poster.
(a) Each savings association shall post and maintain one or more Equal Housing Lender Posters, the text of which is prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, in the lobby of each of its offices in a prominent place or places readily apparent to all persons seeking loans. The poster shall be at least 11 by 14 inches in size, and the text shall be easily legible. It is recommended that savings associations post a Spanish language version of the poster in offices serving areas with a substantial Spanish-speaking population.
(b) The text of the Equal Housing Lender Poster shall be as follows:
ER09AU11.001
We Do Business In Accordance With Federal Fair Lending Laws.
UNDER THE FEDERAL FAIR HOUSING ACT, IT IS ILLEGAL, ON THE BASIS OF RACE, COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN, RELIGION, SEX, HANDICAP, OR FAMILIAL STATUS (HAVING CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF 18) TO:
[ ] Deny a loan for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling or to deny any loan secured by a dwelling; or
[ ] Discriminate in fixing the amount, interest rate, duration, application procedures, or other terms or conditions of such a loan or in appraising property.
IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, YOU SHOULD:
SEND A COMPLAINT TO:
Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410.
For processing under the Federal Fair Housing Act
AND TO:
[Insert contact information for appropriate Federal regulator]
For processing under applicable Regulations.
UNDER THE EQUAL CREDIT OPPORTUNITY ACT, IT IS ILLEGAL TO DISCRIMINATE IN ANY CREDIT TRANSACTION:
[ ] On the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, marital status, or age;
[ ] Because income is from public assistance; or
[ ] Because a right has been exercised under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.
IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, YOU SHOULD SEND A COMPLAINT TO:
[Insert contact information for appropriate Federal regulator]
§ 128.6
Loan application register.
Savings associations and other lenders required to file Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Loan Application Registers with the OCC in accordance with 12 CFR part 203 must enter the reason for denial, using the codes provided in 12 CFR part 203, with respect to all loan denials.
§ 128.7
Nondiscrimination in employment.
(a) No savings association shall, because of an individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin:
(1) Fail or refuse to hire such individual;
(2) Discharge such individual;
(3) Otherwise discriminate against such individual with respect to such individual's compensation, promotion, or the terms, conditions, or privileges of such individual's employment; or
(4) Discriminate in admission to, or employment in, any program of apprenticeship, training, or retraining, including on-the-job training.
(b) No savings association shall limit, segregate, or classify its employees in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect such individual's status as an employee because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(c) No savings association shall discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because such employee or applicant has opposed any employment practice made unlawful by Federal, state, or local law or regulation or because he has in good faith made a charge of such practice or testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing of such practice by any lawfully constituted authority.
(d) No savings association shall print or publish or cause to be printed or published any notice or advertisement relating to employment by such savings association indicating any preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(e) This regulation shall not apply in any case in which the Federal Equal Employment Opportunities law is made inapplicable by the provisions of section 2000e-1 or sections 2000e-2(e) through (j) of title 42, United States Code.
(f) Any violation of the following laws or regulations by a savings association shall be deemed to be a violation of this part 128:
(1) The Equal Employment Opportunity Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C.
2000e-2000h-2, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) regulations at 29 CFR part 1600;
(2) The Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. 621-633, and EEOC and Department of Labor regulations;
(3) Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) regulations at 41 CFR part 60;
(4) The Veterans Employment and Readjustment Act of 1972, 38 U.S.C. 2011-2012, and the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Adjustment Assistance Act of 1974, 38 U.S.C. 2021-2026;
(5) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 701
et seq.;
and
(6) The Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1324b, and INS regulations at 8 CFR part 274a.
§ 128.8
Complaints.
Complaints alleging violations of the Fair Housing Act by a savings association shall be referred to the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410 for processing under the Fair Housing Act, and to the appropriate Federal regulator for processing under applicable regulations. Complaints regarding discrimination in employment by a savings association should be referred to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Washington, DC 20506 and a copy, for information only, sent to the appropriate Federal regulator.
§ 128.9
Guidelines relating to nondiscrimination in lending.
(a)
General.
Fair housing and equal opportunity in home financing is a policy of the United States established by Federal statutes and Presidential orders and proclamations. In furtherance of the Federal civil rights laws and the economical home financing purposes of the statutes administered by the OCC, the OCC has adopted, in part 128 of this chapter, nondiscrimination regulations that, among other things, prohibit arbitrary refusals to consider loan applications on the basis of the age or location of a dwelling, and prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status (having one or more children under the age of 18), marital status, age (provided the person has the capacity to contract), or national origin in fixing the amount, interest rate, duration, application procedures, collection or enforcement procedures, or other terms or conditions of housing related loans. Such discrimination is also prohibited in the purchase of loans and securities. This section provides supplementary guidelines to aid savings associations in developing and implementing nondiscriminatory lending policies. Each savings association should reexamine its underwriting standards at least annually in order to ensure equal opportunity.
(b)
Loan underwriting standards.
The basic purpose of the nondiscrimination regulations is to require that every applicant be given an equal opportunity to obtain a loan. Each loan applicant's creditworthiness should be evaluated on an individual basis without reference to presumed characteristics of a group. The use of lending standards which have no economic basis and which are discriminatory in effect is a violation of law even in the absence of an actual intent to discriminate. However, a standard which has a discriminatory effect is not necessarily improper if its use achieves a genuine business need which cannot be achieved by means which are not discriminatory in effect or less discriminatory in effect.
(c)
Discriminatory practices
—(1)
Discrimination on the basis of sex or marital status.
The Civil Rights Act of 1968 and the National Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending on the basis of sex. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, in addition to this prohibition, forbids discrimination on the basis of marital status. Refusing to lend to, requiring higher standards of creditworthiness of, or imposing different requirements on, members of one sex or individuals of one marital status, is discrimination based on sex or marital status. Loan underwriting decisions must be based on an applicant's credit history and present and reasonably foreseeable economic prospects, rather than on the basis of assumptions regarding comparative differences in creditworthiness between married and unmarried
individuals, or between men and women.
(2)
Discrimination on the basis of language.
Requiring fluency in the English language as a prerequisite for obtaining a loan may be a discriminatory practice based on national origin.
(3)
Income of husbands and wives.
A practice of discounting all or part of either spouse's income where spouses apply jointly is a violation of section 527 of the National Housing Act. As with other income, when spouses apply jointly for a loan, the determination as to whether a spouse's income qualifies for credit purposes should depend upon a reasonable evaluation of his or her past, present, and reasonably foreseeable economic circumstances. Information relating to child-bearing intentions of a couple or an individual may not be requested.
(4)
Supplementary income.
Lending standards which consider as effective only the non-overtime income of the primary wage-earner may result in discrimination because they do not take account of variations in employment patterns among individuals and families. The favored method of loan underwriting reasonably evaluates the credit worthiness of each applicant based on a realistic appraisal of his or her own past, present, and foreseeable economic circumstances. The determination as to whether primary income or additional income qualifies as effective for credit purposes should depend upon whether such income may reasonably be expected to continue through the early period of the mortgage risk. Automatically discounting other income from bonuses, overtime, or part-time employment, will cause some applicants to be denied financing without a realistic analysis of their credit worthiness. Since statistics show that minority group members and low- and moderate-income families rely more often on such supplemental income, the practice may be racially discriminatory in effect, as well as artificially restrictive of opportunities for home financing.
(5)
Applicant's prior history.
Loan decisions should be based upon a realistic evaluation of all pertinent factors respecting an individual's creditworthiness, without giving undue weight to any one factor. The savings association should, among other things, take into consideration that:
(i) In some instances, past credit difficulties may have resulted from discriminatory practices;
(ii) A policy favoring applicants who previously owned homes may perpetuate prior discrimination;
(iii) A current, stable earnings record may be the most reliable indicator of credit-worthiness, and entitled to more weight than factors such as educational level attained;
(iv) Job or residential changes may indicate upward mobility; and
(v) Preferring applicants who have done business with the lender can perpetuate previous discriminatory policies.
(6)
Income level or racial composition of area.
Refusing to lend or lending on less favorable terms in particular areas because of their racial composition is unlawful. Refusing to lend, or offering less favorable terms (such as interest rate, downpayment, or maturity) to applicants because of the income level in an area can discriminate against minority group persons.
(7)
Age and location factors.
Sections 128.2, 128.11, and 128.3 of this chapter prohibit loan denials based upon the age or location of a dwelling. These restrictions are intended to prohibit use of unfounded or unsubstantiated assumptions regarding the effect upon loan risk of the age of a dwelling or the physical or economic characteristics of an area. Loan decisions should be based on the present market value of the property offered as security (including consideration of specific improvements to be made by the borrower) and the likelihood that the property will retain an adequate value over the term of the loan. Specific factors which may negatively affect its short-range future value (up to 3-5 years) should be clearly documented. Factors which in some cases may cause the market value of a property to decline are recent zoning changes or a significant number of abandoned homes in the immediate vicinity of the property. However, not all zoning changes will cause a decline in property values, and proximity to abandoned buildings may not affect the market value of a property because of
rehabilitation programs or affirmative lending programs, or because the cause of abandonment is unrelated to high risk. Proper underwriting considerations include the condition and utility of the improvements, and various physical factors such as street conditions, amenities such as parks and recreation areas, availability of public utilities and municipal services, and exposure to flooding and land faults. However, arbitrary decisions based on age or location are prohibited, since many older, soundly constructed homes provide housing opportunities which may be precluded by an arbitrary lending policy.
(8)
Fair Housing Act (title VIII, Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended).
Savings associations must comply with all regulations promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to implement the Fair Housing Act, found at 24 CFR parts 100 through 125, except that they shall use the Equal Housing Lender logo and poster prescribed by OCC regulations at 12 CFR 128.4 and 128.5 rather than the Equal Housing Opportunity logo and poster required by 24 CFR part 110.
(d)
Marketing practices.
Savings associations should review their advertising and marketing practices to ensure that their services are available without discrimination to the community they serve. Discrimination in lending is not limited to loan decisions and underwriting standards; a savings association does not meet its obligations to the community or implement its equal lending responsibility if its marketing practices and business relationships with developers and real estate brokers improperly restrict its clientele to segments of the community. A review of marketing practices could begin with an examination of an association's loan portfolio and applications to ascertain whether, in view of the demographic characteristics and credit demands of the community in which the institution is located, it is adequately serving the community on a nondiscriminatory basis. The OCC will systematically review marketing practices where evidence of discrimination in lending is discovered.
§ 128.10
Supplementary guidelines.
The policy statement found at 12 CFR 128.9 supplements this part and should be read together with this part. Refer also to the HUD Fair Housing regulations at 24 CFR parts 100 through 125, Federal Reserve Regulation B at 12 CFR part 202, and Federal Reserve Regulation C at 12 CFR part 203.
§ 128.11
Nondiscriminatory appraisal and underwriting.
(a)
Appraisal.
No savings association may use or rely upon an appraisal of a dwelling which the savings association knows, or reasonably should know, is discriminatory on the basis of the age or location of the dwelling, or is discriminatory per se or in effect under the Fair Housing Act of 1968 or the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
(b)
Underwriting.
Each savings association shall have clearly written, non-discriminatory loan underwriting standards, available to the public upon request, at each of its offices. Each association shall, at least annually, review its standards, and business practices implementing them, to ensure equal opportunity in lending.

# Note to § 128.11:
See also,
§ 128.9(b), (c)(6), and (c)(7).
PARTS 129-140 [RESERVED]
Pt. 141

# PART 141—DEFINITIONS FOR REGULATIONS AFFECTING FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
141.1
When do the definitions in this part apply?
141.2
[Reserved]
141.5
Commercial paper.
141.7
Corporate debt security.
141.8
[Reserved]
141.10
Dwelling unit.
141.11
Federal savings association.
141.14
Home.
141.15-141.19
[Reserved]
141.20
Loans.
141.21
Nonresidential real estate.
141.22
[Reserved]
141.23
Residential real estate.
141.25
Single-family dwelling.
141.26
Surplus.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 48990, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 141.1
When do the definitions in this part apply?
The definitions in this part and in 12 CFR part 161 apply throughout parts 100 through 199 of this chapter, unless another definition is specifically provided.
§ 141.2
[Reserved]
§ 141.5
Commercial paper.
The term
commercial paper
means any note, draft, or bill of exchange which arises out of a current transaction or the proceeds of which have been or are to be used for current transactions, and which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
§ 141.7
Corporate debt security.
The term
corporate debt security
means a marketable obligation, evidencing the indebtedness of any corporation in the form of a bond, note and/or debenture which is commonly regarded as a debt security and is not predominantly speculative in nature. A security is marketable if it may be sold with reasonable promptness at a price which corresponds reasonably to its fair value.
§ 141.8
[Reserved]
§ 141.10
Dwelling unit.
The term
dwelling unit
means the unified combination of rooms designed for residential use by one family, other than a single-family dwelling.
§ 141.11
Federal savings association.
The term
Federal savings association
means a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank chartered under section 5 of the Act.
§ 141.14
Home.
The term
home
means real estate comprising a single-family dwelling(s) or a dwelling unit(s) for four or fewer families in the aggregate.
§ 141.15-141.19
[Reserved]
§ 141.20
Loans.
The term
loans
means obligations and extensions or advances of credit; and any reference to a loan or investment includes an interest in such a loan or investment.
§ 141.21
Nonresidential real estate.
The terms
nonresidential real estate or nonresidential real property
mean real estate that is not
residential real estate,
as that term is defined in § 141.23 of this part.
§ 141.22
[Reserved]
§ 141.23
Residential real estate.
The terms
residential real estate or residential real property
mean:
(a) Homes (including a dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property such as a condominium or a cooperative);
(b) Combinations of homes and business property (
i.e.,
a home used in part for business);
(c) Other real estate used for primarily residential purposes other than a home (but which may include homes);
(d) Combinations of such real estate and business property involving only minor business use (
i.e.,
where no more than 20 percent of the total appraised value of the real estate is attributable to the business use);
(e) Farm residences and combinations of farm residences and commercial farm real estate;
(f) Property to be improved by the construction of such structures; or
(g) Leasehold interests in the above real estate.
§ 141.25
Single-family dwelling.
The term
single-family dwelling
means a structure designed for residential use by one family, or a unit so designed, whose owner owns, directly or through a non-profit cooperative housing organization, an undivided interest in the underling real estate, including property owned in common with others which contributes to the use and enjoyment of the structure or unit.
§ 141.26
Surplus.
The term
surplus
means undistributed earnings held as unallocated reserves for general corporate use.
PART 142 [RESERVED]
Pt. 143

# PART 143—FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS—GRANDFATHERED AUTHORITY

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 2901
et seq.,
5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 48991, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 143.12
Grandfathered authority.
(a) A Federal savings bank formerly chartered or designated as a mutual savings bank under state law may exercise any authority it was authorized to exercise as a mutual savings bank under state law at the time of its conversion from a state mutual savings bank to a Federal or other state charter. Except to the extent such authority may be exercised by Federal savings associations not enjoying grandfathered rights hereunder, such authority may be exercised only to the degree authorized under state law at the time of such conversion. Unless otherwise determined by the OTS prior to July 21, 2011 or by the OCC an association, in the exercise of grandfathered authority, may continue to follow applicable state laws and regulations in effect at the time of such conversion.
(b) A Federal savings association that acquires, or has acquired, a Federal savings bank by merger or consolidation may itself exercise any grandfathered rights enjoyed by the disappearing institution, whether such rights were obtained directly through conversion or through merger or consolidation. The extent of the grandfathered rights of a Federal savings association that disappeared prior to the effective date of this section shall be determined exclusively pursuant to this section.
(c) This section shall not be construed to prevent the exercise by a Federal savings association enjoying grandfathered rights hereunder of authority that is available under the applicable state law only upon the occurrence of specific preconditions, such as the attainment of a particular future date or specified level of regulatory capital, which have not occurred at the time of conversion from a state mutual savings bank, provided they occur thereafter.
(d) This section shall not be construed to permit the exercise of any particular authority on a more liberal basis than is allowable under the most liberal construction of either state or Federal law or regulation.
Pt. 144

# PART 144—FEDERAL MUTUAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS—COMMUNICATION BETWEEN MEMBERS

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 2901
et seq.,
5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 48995, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 144.8
Communication between members of a Federal mutual savings association.
(a)
Right of communication with other members.
A member of a Federal mutual savings association has the right to communicate, as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, with other members of the Federal savings association regarding any matter related to the Federal savings association's affairs, except for “improper” communications, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section. The association may not defeat that right by redeeming a savings member's savings account in the Federal mutual savings association.
(b)
Member communication procedures.
If a member of a Federal mutual savings association desires to communicate with other members, the following procedures shall be followed:
(1) The member shall give the Federal mutual savings association a written request to communicate;
(2) If the proposed communication is in connection with a meeting of the Federal savings association's members, the request shall be given at least thirty days before the annual meeting or 10 days before a special meeting;
(3) The request shall contain—
(i) The member's full name and address;
(ii) The nature and extent of the member's interest in the Federal savings association at the time the information is given;
(iii) A copy of the proposed communication; and
(iv) If the communication is in connection with a meeting of the members, the date of the meeting;
(4) The Federal savings association shall reply to the request within either—
(i) Fourteen days;
(ii) Ten days, if the communication is in connection with the annual meeting; or
(iii) Three days, if the communication is in connection with a special meeting;
(5) The reply shall provide either—
(i) The number of the Federal savings association's members and the estimated reasonable cost to the Federal savings association of mailing to them the proposed communication; or
(ii) Notification that the Federal savings association has determined not to mail the communication because it is “improper”, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section;
(6) After receiving the amount of the estimated costs of mailing and sufficient copies of the communication, the Federal savings association shall mail the communication to all members, by a class of mail specified by the requesting member, either—
(i) Within fourteen days;
(ii) Within seven days, if the communication is in connection with the annual meeting;
(iii) As soon as practicable before the meeting, if the communication is in connection with a special meeting; or
(iv) On a later date specified by the member;
(7) If the Federal savings association refuses to mail the proposed communication, it shall return the requesting member's materials together with a written statement of the specific reasons for refusal, and shall simultaneously send to the appropriate OCC licensing office two copies each of the requesting member's materials, the Federal savings association's written statement, and any other relevant material. The materials shall be sent within:
(i) Fourteen days,
(ii) Ten days if the communication is in connection with the annual meeting, or
(iii) Three days, if the communication is in connection with a special meeting, after the Federal savings association receives the request for communication.
(c)
Improper communication.
A communication is an “improper communication” if it contains material which:
(1) At the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it is made:
(i) Is false or misleading with respect to any material fact; or
(ii) Omits a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not false or misleading, or necessary to correct a statement in an earlier communication on the same subject which has become false or misleading;
(2) Relates to a personal claim or a personal grievance, or is solicitous of personal gain or business advantage by or on behalf of any party;
(3) Relates to any matter, including a general economic, political, racial, religious, social, or similar cause, that is not significantly related to the business of the Federal savings association or is not within the control of the Federal savings association; or
(4) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation:
(i) Impugns character, integrity, or personal reputation,
(ii) Makes charges concerning improper, illegal, or immoral conduct, or
(iii) Makes statements impugning the stability and soundness of the Federal savings association.
Pt. 145

# PART 145—FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS—OPERATIONS
Sec.
145.1
General authority.
145.2
[Reserved]
145.16
Public deposits, depositaries, and fiscal agents.
145.17
Funds transfer services.
145.92
Branch offices.
145.101
Fiscal agency.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1828, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 48999, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 145.1
General authority.
A Federal savings association may exercise all authority granted it by the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (“Act”), 12 U.S.C. 1464, as amended, and its charter and bylaws, whether or not implemented specifically by OCC regulations, subject to the limitations and interpretations contained in this part.
§ 145.2
[Reserved]
§ 145.16
Public deposits, depositaries, and fiscal agents.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
(1)
Moneys
includes
monies
and has the same meaning it has in applicable state law;
(2)
State law
includes actions by a governmental body which has a charter adopted under the constitution of the state with provisions respecting deposits of public money of that body;
(3)
Surety
means surety under real and/or personal suretyship, and includes guarantor; and
(4) Terms in paragraph (b) of this section have the meanings they have under applicable state law.
(b)
Authority to act as surety for public deposits.
(1) A Federal savings association that is a deposit association may give bond or security for deposit in it of public moneys or investment in it by a governmental unit if required to do so by state law, either as an alternative condition or otherwise, regardless of the amount required. Any bond or security may be given and any substitution or increase thereof may be made under this section at any time.
(2) If state law requires as a condition of such deposit or investment that the Federal savings association or its bond or security, or any combination thereof, be surety for or with respect to other deposits or instruments, whether of that depositor or investor or of any other(s), and whether in the Federal savings association or in any other institution(s) having, when the investments or deposits were made, insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the same shall become, or if the state law is self-executing shall be, such surety.
(c)
Depositaries and fiscal agents.
Subject to regulation of the United States Treasury Department, a Federal savings association may serve as a depositary for Federal taxes, as a Treasury tax and loan depositary, or as a depositary of public money and fiscal agent of the Government or any other instrumentality thereof when designated for that purpose by such instrumentality and approved by the OCC, and may satisfy any requirement in connection therewith, including maintaining accounts described in §§ 161.33, 161.52, 161.53, and 161.54 of this chapter; pledging collateral; and performing the services outlined in 31 CFR 202.3(b) or any section that supersedes or amends § 202.3(b).
§ 145.17
Funds transfer services.
A Federal savings association is authorized to transfer, with or without fee, its customers' funds from any account (including a line of credit) of the customer at the Federal savings association or at another financial intermediary to third parties or other accounts of the customer on the customer's order or authorization by any mechanism or device, including cashier's checks, conforming with applicable laws and established commercial practices.
§ 145.92
Branch offices.
(a)
Definition.
A branch office of a Federal savings association (“you”) is any office other than your home office, agency office, administrative office, data processing office, or an electronic means or facility under part 155 of this chapter.
(b)
Branching.
Subject to the application and notice requirements at § 5.31 of this chapter, you may branch in any state or states of the United States and its territories unless the location would violate:
(1) Section 5(r) of the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1464(r));
(2) Section 10(e)(3) of the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)(3)); or
(3) Section 13(k)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1823(k)(4)).
(c)
Preemption.
This exercise of the OCC's authority is preemptive of any state law purporting to address the
subject of branching by a Federal savings association.
[76 FR 48999, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]
§ 145.101
Fiscal agency.
A Federal savings association designated fiscal agent by the Secretary of the Treasury or with OCC approval by another instrumentality of the United States, shall, as such, perform such reasonable duties and exercise only such powers and privileges as the Secretary of the Treasury or such instrumentality may prescribe.
PARTS 146-149 [RESERVED]
Pt. 150

# PART 150—FIDUCIARY POWERS OF FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
150.10
What regulations govern the fiduciary operations of Federal savings associations?
150.20
What are fiduciary powers?
150.30
What fiduciary capacities does this part cover?
150.40
When do I have investment discretion?
150.50
What is a fiduciary account?
150.60
What other definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart A—Obtaining Fiduciary Powers
150.70
Must I obtain OCC approval or file a notice before I exercise fiduciary powers?

# Subpart B—Exercising Fiduciary Powers
150.130
How may I conduct multi-state operations?
150.135
How do I determine which state's laws apply to my operations?
150.136
To what extent do state laws apply to my fiduciary operations?
150.140
Must I adopt and follow written policies and procedures in exercising fiduciary powers?

# Fiduciary Personnel and Facilities
150.150
Who is responsible for the exercise of fiduciary powers?
150.160
What personnel and facilities may I use to perform fiduciary services?
150.170
May my other departments or affiliates use fiduciary personnel and facilities to perform other services?
150.180
May I perform fiduciary services for, or purchase fiduciary services from, another association or entity?
150.190
Must fiduciary officers and employees be bonded?

# Review of a Fiduciary Account
150.200
Must I review a prospective account before I accept it?
150.210
Must I conduct another review of an account after I accept it?
150.220
Are any other account reviews required?

# Custody and Control of Assets
150.230
Who must maintain custody or control of assets in a fiduciary account?
150.240
May I hold investments of a fiduciary account off-premises?
150.245
When is a fiduciary not required to maintain custody or control of fiduciary assets?
150.250
Must I keep fiduciary assets separate from other assets?

# Investing Funds of a Fiduciary Account
150.260
How may I invest funds of a fiduciary account?

# Funds Awaiting Investment or Distribution
150.290
What must I do with fiduciary funds awaiting investment or distribution?
150.300
Where may I deposit fiduciary funds awaiting investment or distribution?
150.310
What if the FDIC does not insure the deposits?
150.320
What is acceptable collateral for uninsured deposits?

# Restrictions on Self Dealing
150.330
Are there investments in which I may not invest funds of a fiduciary account?
150.340
May I exercise rights to purchase additional stock or fractional shares of my stock or obligations or the stock or obligations of my affiliates?
150.350
May I lend, sell, or transfer assets of a fiduciary account if I have an interest in the transaction?
150.360
May I make a loan to a fiduciary account that is secured by an interest in the assets of the account?
150.370
May I sell assets or lend money between fiduciary accounts?

# Compensation, Gifts, and Bequests
150.380
May I earn compensation for acting in a fiduciary capacity?
150.390
May my officer or employee retain compensation for acting as a co-fiduciary?
150.400
May my fiduciary officer or employee accept a gift or bequest?

# Recordkeeping Requirements
150.410
What records must I keep?
150.420
How long must I keep these records?
150.430
Must I keep fiduciary records separate and distinct from other records?

# Audit Requirements
150.440
When do I have to audit my fiduciary activities?
150.450
What standards govern the conduct of the audit?
150.460
Who may conduct an audit?
150.470
Who directs the conduct of the audit?
150.480
How do I report the results of the audit?

# Subpart C—Depositing Securities With State Authorities
150.490
When must I deposit securities with state authorities?
150.500
How much must I deposit if I administer fiduciary assets in more than one state?
150.510
What must I do if state authorities refuse my deposit?

# Subpart D—Terminating Fiduciary Activities Receivership or Liquidation
150.520
What happens if I am placed in receivership or voluntary liquidation?

# Surrender of Fiduciary Powers
150.530
How do I surrender fiduciary powers?
150.540
When will the OCC terminate my fiduciary powers?
150.550
May I recover my deposit from state authorities?

# Revocation of Fiduciary Powers
150.560
When may the OCC revoke my fiduciary powers?
150.570
What procedures govern the revocation?

# Subpart E—Activities Exempt From This Part
150.580
When may I conduct fiduciary activities without obtaining OCC approval?
150.590
What standards must I observe when acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?
150.600
How may funds be invested when I act in an exempt fiduciary capacity?
150.610
What disclosures must I make when acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?
150.620
May I receive compensation for acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49003, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 150.10
What regulations govern the fiduciary operations of Federal savings associations?
A Federal savings association (“you”) must conduct its fiduciary operations in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1464(n) and this part.
§ 150.20
What are fiduciary powers?
Fiduciary powers are the authority that the OCC permits you to exercise under 12 U.S.C. 1464(n).
§ 150.30
What fiduciary capacities does this part cover?
You are subject to this part if you act in a fiduciary capacity, except as described in subpart E of this part. You act in a fiduciary capacity when you act in any of the following capacities:
(a) Trustee.
(b) Executor.
(c) Administrator.
(d) Registrar of stocks and bonds.
(e) Transfer agent.
(f) Assignee.
(g) Receiver.
(h) Guardian or conservator of the estate of a minor, an incompetent person, an absent person, or a person over whose estate a court has taken jurisdiction, other than under bankruptcy or insolvency laws.
(i) A fiduciary in a relationship established under a state law that is substantially similar to the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act or the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act as published by the American Law Institute.
(j) Investment adviser, if you receive a fee for your investment advice.
(k) Any capacity in which you have investment discretion on behalf of another.
(l) Any other similar capacity that the OCC may authorize under 12 U.S.C. 1464(n).
§ 150.40
When do I have investment discretion?
(a)
General.
You have investment discretion when you have, with respect to a fiduciary account, the sole or shared authority to determine what securities or other assets to purchase or sell on behalf of that account. It does not matter whether you have exercised this authority.
(b)
Delegations.
You retain investment discretion if you delegate investment discretion to another. You also have investment discretion if you receive delegated authority to exercise investment discretion from another.
§ 150.50
What is a fiduciary account?
A fiduciary account is an account that you administer acting in a fiduciary capacity.
§ 150.60
What other definitions apply to this part?
Activities ancillary to your fiduciary business
include advertising, marketing, or soliciting fiduciary business, contacting existing or potential customers, answering questions and providing information to customers related to their accounts, acting as liaison between you and your customer (for example, forwarding requests for distribution, changes in investment objectives, forms, or funds received from the customer), and inspecting or maintaining custody of fiduciary assets or holding title to real property. This list is illustrative and not comprehensive. Other activities may also be “ancillary activities” for purposes of this definition.
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 221a(b). For purposes of this part, substitute the term “Federal savings association” for the term “member bank” whenever it appears in 12 U.S.C. 221a(b).
Applicable law
means the law of a state or other jurisdiction governing your fiduciary relationships, any Federal law governing those relationships, the terms of the instrument governing a fiduciary relationship, and any court order pertaining to the relationship.
Fiduciary activities
include accepting a fiduciary appointment, executing fiduciary-related documents, providing investment advice for a fee regarding fiduciary assets, or making discretionary decisions regarding investment or distribution of assets.
Fiduciary officers and employees
means the officers and employees of a Federal savings association to whom the board of directors or its designee has assigned functions involving the exercise of the association's fiduciary powers.

# Subpart A—Obtaining Fiduciary Powers
§ 150.70
Must I obtain OCC approval or file a notice before I exercise fiduciary powers?
Except for fiduciary activities subject solely to subpart E, you should refer to 12 CFR 5.26 to determine if you must obtain OCC approval or file a notice with the OCC before you exercise fiduciary powers. A Federal savings association may not exercise fiduciary powers unless it obtains prior approval from the OCC to the extent required under 12 CFR 5.26.
[80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]

# Subpart B—Exercising Fiduciary Powers
§ 150.130
How may I conduct multi-state operations?
(a)
Conducting fiduciary activities in more than one state.
You may conduct fiduciary activities in any state, subject to the application and notice requirements in § 5.26 of this chapter.
(b)
Serving customers in more than one state.
When you conduct fiduciary activities in a state:
(1) You may market your fiduciary services to, and act as a fiduciary for, customers located in any state, may act as a fiduciary for relationships that include property located in other states, and may act as a testamentary trustee for a testator located in other states.
(2) You may establish or utilize an office in any state to perform activities that are ancillary to your fiduciary business.
[76 FR 49003, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]
§ 150.135
How do I determine which state's laws apply to my operations?
(a) The state laws that apply to you by virtue of 12 U.S.C. 1464(n) are the laws of the states in which you conduct fiduciary activities. For each individual state, you may conduct fiduciary activities in the capacity of trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, or in any other fiduciary capacity the state permits for its state
banks, trust companies, or other corporations that compete with Federal savings associations in the state.
(b) For each fiduciary relationship, the state referred to in 12 U.S.C. 1464(n) is the state in which you conduct fiduciary activities for that relationship.
§ 150.136
To what extent do state laws apply to my fiduciary operations?
(a)
Application of state law.
To enhance safety and soundness and to enable Federal savings associations to conduct their fiduciary activities in accordance with the best practices of thrift institutions in the United States (by efficiently delivering fiduciary services to the public free from undue regulatory duplication and burden), the OCC intends to give Federal savings associations maximum flexibility to exercise their fiduciary powers in accordance with a uniform scheme of Federal regulation. Accordingly, Federal savings associations may exercise fiduciary powers as authorized under Federal law, including this part, without regard to state laws that purport to regulate or otherwise affect their fiduciary activities, except to the extent provided in 12 U.S.C. 1464(n) (state laws regarding scope of fiduciary powers, access to examination reports regarding trust activities, deposits of securities, oaths and affidavits, and capital) or in paragraph (c) of this section. For purposes of this section, “state law” includes any state statute, regulation, ruling, order, or judicial decision.
(b)
Illustrative examples.
Examples of state laws that are preempted by the HOLA and this section include those regarding:
(1) Registration and licensing;
(2) Recordkeeping;
(3) Advertising and marketing;
(4) The ability of a Federal savings association conducting fiduciary activities to maintain an action or proceeding in state court; and
(5) Fiduciary-related fees.
(c)
State laws that are not preempted.
State laws of the following types are not preempted to the extent that they only incidentally affect the fiduciary operations of Federal savings associations or are otherwise consistent with the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Contract and commercial law;
(2) Real property law;
(3) Tort law;
(4) Criminal law;
(5) Probate law; and
(6) Any other law that the OCC, upon review, finds:
(i) Furthers a vital state interest; and
(ii) Either has only an incidental effect on fiduciary operations or is not otherwise contrary to the purposes expressed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 150.140
Must I adopt and follow written policies and procedures in exercising fiduciary powers?
You must adopt and follow written policies and procedures adequate to maintain your fiduciary activities in compliance with applicable law. Among other relevant matters, the policies and procedures should address, where appropriate, the following areas:
(a) Your brokerage placement practices.
(b) Your methods for ensuring that your fiduciary officers and employees do not use material inside information in connection with any decision or recommendation to purchase or sell any security.
(c) Your methods for preventing self-dealing and conflicts of interest.
(d) Your selection and retention of legal counsel who is ready and available to advise you and your fiduciary officers and employees on fiduciary matters.
(e) Your investment of funds held as fiduciary, including short-term investments and the treatment of fiduciary funds awaiting investment or distribution.

# Fiduciary Personnel and Facilities
§ 150.150
Who is responsible for the exercise of fiduciary powers?
The exercise of your fiduciary powers must be managed by or under the direction of your board of directors. In discharging its responsibilities, the board may assign any function related to the exercise of fiduciary powers to any director, officer, employee, or committee of directors, officers, or employees.
§ 150.160
What personnel and facilities may I use to perform fiduciary services?
You may use your qualified personnel and facilities or an affiliate's qualified personnel and facilities to perform services related to the exercise of fiduciary powers.
§ 150.170
May my other departments or affiliates use fiduciary personnel and facilities to perform other services?
Your other departments or affiliates may use fiduciary officers, employees, and facilities to perform services unrelated to the exercise of fiduciary powers, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law.
§ 150.180
May I perform fiduciary services for, or purchase fiduciary services from, another association or entity?
You may perform services related to the exercise of fiduciary powers for another association or other entity under a written agreement. You may also purchase services related to the exercise of fiduciary powers from another association or other entity under a written agreement.
§ 150.190
Must fiduciary officers and employees be bonded?
You must obtain an adequate bond for all fiduciary officers and employees.

# Review of a Fiduciary Account
§ 150.200
Must I review a prospective account before I accept it?
Before accepting a prospective fiduciary account, you must review it to determine whether you can properly administer the account.
§ 150.210
Must I conduct another review of an account after I accept it?
After you accept a fiduciary account for which you have investment discretion, you must conduct a prompt review of all assets of the account to evaluate whether they are appropriate, individually and collectively, for the account.
§ 150.220
Are any other account reviews required?
At least once every calendar year, you must conduct a review of all assets of each fiduciary account for which you have investment discretion. In this review, you must evaluate whether the assets are appropriate, individually and collectively, for the account.

# Custody and Control of Assets
§ 150.230
Who must maintain custody or control of assets in a fiduciary account?
You must place assets of fiduciary accounts in the joint custody or control of not fewer than two fiduciary officers or employees designated for that purpose by the board of directors.
§ 150.240
May I hold investments of a fiduciary account off-premises?
You may hold the investments of a fiduciary account off-premises, if this practice is consistent with applicable law, and you maintain adequate safeguards and controls.
§ 150.245
When is a fiduciary not required to maintain custody or control of fiduciary assets?
If you are deemed a fiduciary based solely on your capacity as investment advisor, as that capacity is defined in § 9.101(a) of this chapter, and have no other fiduciary capacity as enumerated in § 150.30, you are not required to maintain custody or control of fiduciary assets as set forth in § 150.220 or § 150.240.
[82 FR 8109, Jan. 23, 2017]
§ 150.250
Must I keep fiduciary assets separate from other assets?
You must keep the assets of fiduciary accounts separate from your other assets. You must also keep the assets of each fiduciary account separate from all other accounts, or you must identify the investments as the property of a particular account, except as provided in § 150.260.

# Investing Funds of a Fiduciary Account
§ 150.260
How may I invest funds of a fiduciary account?
(a)
General.
You must invest funds of a fiduciary account in a manner consistent with applicable law.
(b)
Collective investment funds.
(1) You may invest funds of a fiduciary account in a collective investment fund, including a collective investment fund that you have established. In establishing and administering such funds, you must comply with 12 CFR 9.18.
(2) If you must file a document with the OCC under 12 CFR 9.18, the OCC may review such documents for compliance with this part and other laws and regulations.
(3) “Bank” and “national bank” as used in 12 CFR 9.18 shall be deemed to include a Federal savings association.

# Funds Awaiting Investment or Distribution
§ 150.290
What must I do with fiduciary funds awaiting investment or distribution?
If you have investment discretion or discretion over distributions for a fiduciary account which contains funds awaiting investment or distribution, you must ensure that those funds do not remain uninvested and undistributed any longer than is reasonable for the proper management of the account and consistent with applicable law. You also must obtain a rate of return for those funds that is consistent with applicable law.
§ 150.300
Where may I deposit fiduciary funds awaiting investment or distribution?
(a)
Self deposits.
You may deposit funds of a fiduciary account that are awaiting investment or distribution in your other departments, unless prohibited by applicable law.
(b)
Affiliate deposits.
You may also deposit funds of a fiduciary account that are awaiting investment or distribution with an affiliated insured depository institution, unless prohibited by applicable law.
§ 150.310
What if the FDIC does not insure the deposits?
If the FDIC does not insure the entire amount of a self deposit, you must set aside collateral as security. If the FDIC does not insure the entire amount of an affiliate deposit, you or your affiliate must set aside collateral as security. The market value of the collateral must at all times equal or exceed the amount of the uninsured fiduciary funds. You must place the collateral under the control of appropriate fiduciary officers and employees.
§ 150.320
What is acceptable collateral for uninsured deposits?
Any of the following is acceptable collateral for self deposits or affiliate deposits under § 150.310:
(a) Direct obligations of the United States, or other obligations fully guaranteed by the United States as to principal and interest.
(b) Readily marketable securities of the classes in which state-chartered corporate fiduciaries are permitted to invest fiduciary funds under applicable state law.
(c) Other readily marketable securities as the OCC may determine.
(d) Surety bonds, to the extent they provide adequate security, unless prohibited by applicable law.
(e) Any other assets that qualify under applicable state law as appropriate security for deposits of fiduciary funds.

# Restrictions on Self Dealing
§ 150.330
Are there investments in which I may not invest funds of a fiduciary account?
You may not invest funds of a fiduciary account for which you have investment discretion in the following assets, unless authorized by applicable law:
(a) The stock or obligations of, or assets acquired from, you or any of your directors, officers, or employees.
(b) The stock or obligations of, or assets acquired from, your affiliates or any of their directors, officers, or employees.
(c) The stock or obligations of, or assets acquired from, other individuals or organizations if you have an interest in
the individual or organization that might affect the exercise of your best judgment.
§ 150.340
May I exercise rights to purchase additional stock or fractional shares of my stock or obligations or the stock or obligations of my affiliates?
If the retention of investments in your stock or obligations or the stock or obligations of an affiliate in fiduciary accounts is consistent with applicable law, you may do either of the following:
(a) Exercise rights to purchase additional stock (or securities convertible into additional stock) when these rights are offered
pro rata
to stockholders.
(b) Purchase fractional shares to complement fractional shares acquired through the exercise of rights or through the receipt of a stock dividend resulting in fractional share holdings.
§ 150.350
May I lend, sell, or transfer assets of a fiduciary account if I have an interest in the transaction?
(a)
General restriction.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you may not lend, sell, or otherwise transfer assets of a fiduciary account for which you have investment discretion to yourself or any of your directors, officers, or employees; to your affiliates or any of their directors, officers, or employees; or to other individuals or organizations with whom you have an interest that might affect the exercise of your best judgment.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Funds for which you have investment discretion.
You may lend, sell or otherwise transfer assets of a fiduciary account for which you have investment discretion to yourself or any of your directors, officers, or employees; to your affiliates or any of their directors, officers, or employees; or to other individuals or organizations with whom you have an interest that might affect the exercise of your best judgment, if you meet one of the following conditions:
(i) The transaction is authorized by applicable law.
(ii) Legal counsel advises you in writing that you have incurred, in your fiduciary capacity, a contingent or potential liability. Upon the sale or transfer of assets, you must reimburse the fiduciary account in cash in an amount equal to the greater of book or market value of the assets.
(iii) The transaction is permitted under 12 CFR 9.18(b)(8)(iii) for defaulted fixed-income investments.
(iv) The OCC requires you to do so.
(2)
Funds held as trustee.
You may make loans of funds held in trust to any of your directors, officers, or employees if the funds are held in an employee benefit plan and the loan is made in accordance with the exemptions found at section 408 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1108).
§ 150.360
May I make a loan to a fiduciary account that is secured by an interest in the assets of the account?
You may make a loan to a fiduciary account that is secured by an interest in the assets of the account, if the transaction is fair to the account and is not prohibited by applicable law.
§ 150.370
May I sell assets or lend money between fiduciary accounts?
You may sell assets or lend money between fiduciary accounts, if the transaction is fair to both accounts and is not prohibited by applicable law.

# Compensation, Gifts, and Bequests
§ 150.380
May I earn compensation for acting in a fiduciary capacity?
If the amount of your compensation for acting in a fiduciary capacity is not set or governed by applicable law, you may charge a reasonable fee for your services.
§ 150.390
May my officer or employee retain compensation for acting as a co-fiduciary?
You may not permit your officers or employees to retain any compensation for acting as a co-fiduciary with you in the administration of a fiduciary account, except with the specific approval of your board of directors.
§ 150.400
May my fiduciary officer or employee accept a gift or bequest?
You may not permit any fiduciary officer or employee to accept a bequest or gift of fiduciary assets, unless the
bequest or gift is directed or made by a relative of the officer or employee or is specifically approved by your board of directors.

# Recordkeeping Requirements
§ 150.410
What records must I keep?
You must keep adequate records for all fiduciary accounts. For example, you must keep documents on the establishment and termination of each fiduciary account.
§ 150.420
How long must I keep these records?
You must keep fiduciary records for three years after the termination of the account or the termination of any litigation relating to the account, whichever is later.
§ 150.430
Must I keep fiduciary records separate and distinct from other records?
You must keep fiduciary records separate and distinct from your other records.

# Audit Requirements
§ 150.440
When do I have to audit my fiduciary activities?
(a)
Annual audit.
If you do not use a continuous audit system described in paragraph (b) of this section, then you must arrange for a suitable audit of all significant fiduciary activities at least once during each calendar year.
(b)
Continuous audit.
Instead of an annual audit, you may adopt a continuous audit system. Under a continuous audit system, you must arrange for a discrete audit of each significant fiduciary activity (
i.e.,
on an activity-by-activity basis) at an interval commensurate with the nature and risk of that activity. Some fiduciary activities may receive audits at intervals greater or less than one year, as appropriate.
§ 150.450
What standards govern the conduct of the audit?
Auditors must follow generally accepted standards for attestation engagements and other standards established by the OCC. An audit must ascertain whether your internal control policies and procedures provide reasonable assurance of three things:
(a) You are administering fiduciary activities in accordance with applicable law.
(b) You are properly safeguarding fiduciary assets.
(c) You are accurately recording transactions in appropriate accounts in a timely manner.
§ 150.460
Who may conduct an audit?
Internal auditors, external auditors, or other qualified persons who are responsible only to the board of directors, may conduct an audit.
§ 150.470
Who directs the conduct of the audit?
Your fiduciary audit committee directs the conduct of the audit. Your fiduciary audit committee may consist of a committee of your directors or an audit committee of an affiliate. There are two restrictions on who may serve on the committee:
(a) Your officers and officers of an affiliate who participate significantly in administering your fiduciary activities may not serve on the audit committee.
(b) A majority of the members of the audit committee may not serve on any committee to which the board of directors has delegated power to manage and control your fiduciary activities.
§ 150.480
How do I report the results of the audit?
(a)
Annual audit.
If you conduct an annual audit, you must note the results of the audit (including significant actions taken as a result of the audit) in the minutes of the board of directors.
(b)
Continuous audit.
If you adopt a continuous audit system, you must note the results of all discrete audits conducted since the last audit report (including significant actions taken as a result of the audits) in the minutes of the board of directors at least once during each calendar year.

# Subpart C—Depositing Securities With State Authorities
§ 150.490
When must I deposit securities with state authorities?
You must deposit securities with a state's authorities or, if applicable, a Federal Home Loan Bank under
§ 150.510, if you meet all of the following:
(a) You are located in the state.
(b) You act as a private or court-appointed trustee.
(c) The law of the state requires corporations acting in a fiduciary capacity to deposit securities with state authorities for the protection of private or court trusts.
§ 150.500
How much must I deposit if I administer fiduciary assets in more than one state?
If you administer fiduciary assets in more than one state, you must compute the amount of deposit required for each state on the basis of fiduciary assets that you administer primarily from offices located in that state.
§ 150.510
What must I do if state authorities refuse my deposit?
If state authorities refuse to accept your deposit under § 150.490, you must deposit the securities with the Federal Home Loan Bank of which you are a member. The Federal Home Loan Bank will hold the securities for the protection of private or court trusts to the same extent as if the securities had been deposited with state authorities.

# Subpart D—Terminating Fiduciary Activities Receivership or Liquidation
§ 150.520
What happens if I am placed in receivership or voluntary liquidation?
If the OCC appoints a conservator or receiver, or if you place yourself in voluntary liquidation, the receiver, conservator, or liquidating agent must promptly close or transfer all fiduciary accounts to a substitute fiduciary, in accordance with OCC instructions and the orders of the court having jurisdiction.

# Surrender of Fiduciary Powers
§ 150.530
How do I surrender fiduciary powers?
If you want to surrender your fiduciary powers, you must file a certified copy of a resolution of your board of directors evidencing that intent. You must file the resolution with the appropriate OCC licensing office.
§ 150.540
When will the OCC terminate my fiduciary powers?
If, after appropriate investigation, the OCC is satisfied that you have been discharged from all fiduciary duties, the appropriate OCC licensing office will issue a written notice indicating that you are no longer authorized to exercise fiduciary powers.
§ 150.550
May I recover my deposit from state authorities?
Upon issuance of the OCC written notice under § 150.540, you may recover any securities deposited with state authorities, or a Federal Home Loan Bank, under subpart C of this part.

# Revocation of Fiduciary Powers
§ 150.560
When may the OCC revoke my fiduciary powers?
The OCC may revoke your fiduciary powers if it determines that you have done any of the following:
(a) Exercised those fiduciary powers unlawfully or unsoundly.
(b) Failed to exercise those fiduciary powers for five consecutive years.
(c) Otherwise failed to follow the requirements of this part.
§ 150.570
What procedures govern the revocation?
The procedures for revocation of fiduciary powers are set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1464(n)(10). The OCC will conduct the hearing required under 12 U.S.C. 1464(n)(10)(B) under part 19 of this chapter.
[76 FR 49003, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 89908, Dec. 28, 2023]

# Subpart E—Activities Exempt From This Part
§ 150.580
When may I conduct fiduciary activities without obtaining OCC approval?
Subject to the requirements of this subpart E, you do not need OCC approval under subpart B if you conduct fiduciary activities in the following fiduciary capacities:
(a) Trustee of a trust created or organized in the United States and forming
part of a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing plan qualifying for specific tax treatment under section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 401(d)).
(b) Trustee or custodian of a Individual Retirement Account within the meaning of section 408(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 408(a)).
§ 150.590
What standards must I observe when acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?
You must observe principles of sound fiduciary administration, including those related to recordkeeping and segregation of assets.
§ 150.600
How may funds be invested when I act in an exempt fiduciary capacity?
If you act in an exempt fiduciary capacity under § 150.580, the funds of the fiduciary account may be invested only in the following:
(a) Your accounts, deposits, obligations, or securities.
(b) Other assets as the customer may direct, provided you do not exercise any investment discretion and do not directly or indirectly provide any investment advice for the fiduciary account.
§ 150.610
What disclosures must I make when acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?
(a) If you act in an exempt fiduciary capacity under § 150.580 and fiduciary investments are not limited to accounts or deposits insured by the FDIC, you must include the following language in bold type on the first page of any contract documents:
(b) Funds invested pursuant to this agreement are not insured by the FDIC merely because the trustee or custodian is a Federal savings association the accounts of which are covered by such insurance. Only investments in the accounts of a Federal savings association are insured by the FDIC, subject to its rules and regulations.
§ 150.620
May I receive compensation for acting in exempt fiduciary capacities?
You may receive reasonable compensation.
Pt. 151

# PART 151—RECORDKEEPING AND CONFIRMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
151.10
What does this part do?
151.20
Must I comply with this part?
151.30
What requirements apply to all transactions?
151.40
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart A—Recordkeeping Requirements
151.50
What records must I maintain for securities transactions?
151.60
How must I maintain my records?

# Subpart B—Content and Timing of Notice
151.70
What type of notice must I provide when I effect a securities transaction for a customer?
151.80
How do I provide a registered broker-dealer confirmation?
151.90
How do I provide a written notice?
151.100
What are the alternate notice requirements?
151.120
May I charge a fee for a notice?

# Subpart C—Settlement of Securities Transactions
151.130
When must I settle a securities transaction?

# Subpart D—Securities Trading Policies and Procedures
151.140
What policies and procedures must I maintain and follow for securities transactions?
151.150
How do my officers and employees file reports of personal securities trading transactions?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49008, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 151.10
What does this part do?
This part establishes recordkeeping and confirmation requirements that apply when a Federal savings association (“you”) effects certain securities transactions for customers.
§ 151.20
Must I comply with this part?
(a)
General.
Except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, you must comply with this part when:
(1) You effect a securities transaction for a customer.
(2) You effect a transaction in government securities.
(3) You effect a transaction in municipal securities and are not registered as a municipal securities dealer with the SEC.
(4) You effect a securities transaction as fiduciary. You also must comply with 12 CFR part 150 when you effect such a transaction.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Small number of transactions.
You are not required to comply with §§ 151.50(b) through (d) (recordkeeping) and 151.140(a) through (c) (policies and procedures), if you effected an average of fewer than 500 securities transactions per year for customers over the three prior calendar years. You may exclude transactions in government securities when you calculate this average.
(2)
Government securities.
If you effect fewer than 500 government securities brokerage transactions per year, you are not required to comply with § 151.50 (recordkeeping) for those transactions. This exception does not apply to government securities dealer transactions.
See
17 CFR 404.4(a).
(3)
Municipal securities.
If you are registered with the SEC as a “municipal securities dealer,” as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(30) (
see
15 U.S.C. 78o-4), you are not required to comply with this part when you conduct municipal securities transactions.
(4)
Foreign branches.
You are not required to comply with this part when you conduct a transaction at your foreign branch.
(5)
Transactions by registered broker-dealers.
You are not required to comply with this part for securities transactions effected by a registered broker-dealer, if the registered broker-dealer directly provides the customer with a confirmation. These transactions include a transaction effected by your employee who also acts as an employee of a registered broker-dealer (“dual employee”).
§ 151.30
What requirements apply to all transactions?
You must effect all transactions, including transactions excepted under § 151.20, in a safe and sound manner. You must maintain effective systems of records and controls regarding your customers' securities transactions. These systems must clearly and accurately reflect all appropriate information and provide an adequate basis for an audit.
§ 151.40
What definitions apply to this part?
Asset-backed security
means a security that is primarily serviced by the cash flows of a discrete pool of receivables or other financial assets, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period.
Asset-backed security
includes any rights or other assets designed to ensure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to the security holders.
Common or collective investment fund
means any fund established under 12 CFR 150.260(b) or 12 CFR 9.18.
Completion of the transaction
means:
(1) If the customer purchases a security through or from you, except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, the time the customer pays you any part of the purchase price. If payment is made by a bookkeeping entry, the time you make the bookkeeping entry for any part of the purchase price.
(2) If the customer purchases a security through or from you and pays for the security before you request payment or notify the customer that payment is due, the time you deliver the security to or into the account of the customer.
(3) If the customer sells a security through or to you, except as provided in paragraph (4) of this definition, the time the customer delivers the security to you. If you have custody of the security at the time of sale, the time you transfer the security from the customer's account.
(4) If the customer sells a security through or to you and delivers the security to you before you request delivery or notify the customer that delivery is due, the time you pay the customer or pay into the customer's account.
Customer
means a person or account, including an agency, trust, estate, guardianship, or other fiduciary account for which you effect a securities transaction.
Customer
does not include
a broker or dealer, or you when you: act as a broker or dealer; act as a fiduciary with investment discretion over an account; are a trustee that acts as the shareholder of record for the purchase or sale of securities; or are the issuer of securities that are the subject of the transaction.
Debt security
means any security, such as a bond, debenture, note, or any other similar instrument that evidences a liability of the issuer (including any security of this type that is convertible into stock or a similar security).
Debt security
also includes a fractional or participation interest in these debt securities.
Debt security
does not include securities issued by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1,
et seq.
Government security
means:
(1) A security that is a direct obligation of, or an obligation that is guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States;
(2) A security that is issued or guaranteed by a corporation in which the United States has a direct or indirect interest if the Secretary of the Treasury has designated the security for exemption as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors;
(3) A security issued or guaranteed as to principal and interest by a corporation if a statute specifically designates, by name, the corporation's securities as exempt securities within the meaning of the laws administered by the SEC; or
(4) Any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on a government security described in this definition, other than a put, call, straddle, option, or privilege:
(i) That is traded on one or more national securities exchanges; or
(ii) For which quotations are disseminated through an automated quotation system operated by a registered securities association.
Investment discretion
means the same as under 12 CFR 150.40(a).
Investment company plan
means any plan under which:
(1) A customer purchases securities issued by an open-end investment company or unit investment trust registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, making the payments directly to, or made payable to, the registered investment company, or the principal underwriter, custodian, trustee, or other designated agent of the registered investment company; or
(2) A customer sells securities issued by an open-end investment company or unit investment trust registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 under:
(i) An individual retirement or individual pension plan qualified under the Internal Revenue Code; or
(ii) A contractual or systematic agreement under which the customer purchases at the applicable public offering price, or redeems at the applicable redemption price, securities in specified amounts (calculated in security units or dollars) at specified time intervals, and stating the commissions or charges (or the means of calculating them) that the customer will pay in connection with the purchase.
Municipal security
means:
(1) A security that is a direct obligation of, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a state or any political subdivision, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision.
(2) A security that is a direct obligation of, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more states; or
(3) A security that is an industrial development bond.
Periodic plan
means a written document that authorizes you to act as agent to purchase or sell for a customer a specific security or securities (other than securities issued by an open end investment company or unit investment trust registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940). The written document must authorize you to purchase or sell in specific amounts (calculated in security units or dollars) or to the extent of dividends and funds available, at specific time intervals, and must set forth the commission or charges to be paid by the customer or the manner of calculating them.
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Security
means any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement or in any oil, gas, or other mineral royalty or lease, any collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting-trust certificate, and any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security or group or index of securities (including any interest therein or based on the value thereof), or, in general, any instrument commonly known as a “security'; or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificate for, receipt for, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing.
Security
does not include currency; any note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker's acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of less than nine months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof, the maturity of which is likewise limited; a deposit or share account in a Federal or state chartered depository institution; a loan participation; a letter of credit or other form of bank indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business; units of a collective investment fund; interests in a variable amount (master) note of a borrower of prime credit; U.S. Savings Bonds; or any other instrument the OCC determines does not constitute a security for purposes of this part.
Sweep account
means any prearranged, automatic transfer or sweep of funds above a certain dollar level from a deposit account to purchase a security or securities, or any prearranged, automatic redemption or sale of a security or securities when a deposit account drops below a certain level with the proceeds being transferred into a deposit account.
[76 FR 49008, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017]

# Subpart A—Recordkeeping Requirements
§ 151.50
What records must I maintain for securities transactions?
If you effect securities transactions for customers, you must maintain all of the following records for at least three years:
(a)
Chronological records.
You must maintain an itemized daily record of each purchase and sale of securities in chronological order, including:
(1) The account or customer name for which you effected each transaction;
(2) The name and amount of the securities;
(3) The unit and aggregate purchase or sale price;
(4) The trade date; and
(5) The name or other designation of the registered broker-dealer or other person from whom you purchased the securities or to whom you sold the securities.
(b)
Account records.
You must maintain account records for each customer reflecting:
(1) Purchases and sales of securities;
(2) Receipts and deliveries of securities;
(3) Receipts and disbursements of cash; and
(4) Other debits and credits pertaining to transactions in securities.
(c)
Memorandum (order ticket).
You must make and keep current a memorandum (order ticket) of each order or any other instruction given or received for the purchase or sale of securities (whether executed or not), including:
(1) The account or customer name for which you effected each transaction;
(2) Whether the transaction was a market order, limit order, or subject to special instructions;
(3) The time the trader received the order;
(4) The time the trader placed the order with the registered broker-dealer, or if there was no registered broker-dealer, the time the trader executed or cancelled the order;
(5) The price at which the trader executed the order;
(6) The name of the registered broker-dealer you used.
(d)
Record of registered broker-dealers.
You must maintain a record of all registered broker-dealers that you selected to effect securities transactions and the amount of commissions that you paid or allocated to each registered broker-dealer during each calendar year.
(e)
Notices.
You must maintain a copy of the written notice required under subpart B of this part.
§ 151.60
How must I maintain my records?
(a)
In general.
The records required by § 151.50 must clearly and accurately reflect the information required and provide an adequate basis for the audit of the information. Record maintenance may include the use of automated or electronic records provided the records are easily retrievable, readily available for inspection, and capable of being reproduced in a hard copy.
(b)
Use of third party.
You may contract with third-party service providers to maintain the records required by this section, provided that you maintain effective oversight of the third-party vendor to ensure records meet the requirements of § 150.50 and this section.
[82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017]

# Subpart B—Content and Timing of Notice
§ 151.70
What type of notice must I provide when I effect a securities transaction for a customer?
If you effect a securities transaction for a customer, you must give or send the customer the registered broker-dealer confirmation described at § 151.80, or the written notice described at § 151.90. For certain types of transactions, you may elect to provide the alternate notices described in § 151.100.
§ 151.80
How do I provide a registered broker-dealer confirmation?
(a) If you elect to satisfy § 151.70 by providing the customer with a registered broker-dealer confirmation, you must provide the confirmation by having the registered broker-dealer send the confirmation directly to the customer or by sending a copy of the registered broker-dealer's confirmation to the customer within one business day after you receive it.
(b) Unless you have determined remuneration in a written agreement with the customer, if you have received or will receive remuneration from any source, including the customer, in connection with the transaction, you must provide a statement of the source and amount of the remuneration in addition to the registered broker-dealer confirmation described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[76 FR 49008, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017]
§ 151.90
How do I provide a written notice?
If you elect to satisfy § 151.70 by providing the customer a written notice, you must give or send the written notice at or before the completion of the securities transaction. You must include all of the following information in a written notice:
(a) Your name and the customer's name.
(b) The capacity in which you acted (for example, as agent).
(c) The date and time of execution of the securities transaction (or a statement that you will furnish this information within a reasonable time after the customer's written request), and the identity, price, and number of shares or units (or principal amount in the case of debt securities) of the security the customer purchased or sold.
(d) The name of the person from whom you purchased or to whom you sold the security, or a statement that you will furnish this information within a reasonable time after the customer's written request.
(e) The amount of any remuneration that you have received or will receive from the customer in connection with the transaction unless the remuneration paid by the customer is determined under a written agreement, other than on a transaction basis.
(f) The source and amount of any other remuneration you have received or will receive in connection with the transaction. If, in the case of a purchase, you were not participating in a distribution, or in the case of a sale, were not participating in a tender offer, the written notice may state whether you have or will receive any other remuneration and state that you will furnish the source and amount of the other remuneration within a reasonable time after the customer's written request.
(g) That you are not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, if that is the case. This does not apply to a transaction in shares of a registered open-end investment company or unit investment trust if the customer sends funds or securities directly to, or receives funds or securities directly from, the registered open-end investment company or unit investment trust, its transfer agent, its custodian, or a designated broker or dealer who sends the customer either a confirmation or the written notice in this section.
(h) Additional disclosures. You must provide all of the additional disclosures described in the following chart for transactions involving certain debt securities:
If you effect a transaction involving . . .
You must provide the following additional information in your written notice . . .
(1) A debt security subject to redemption before maturity
A statement that the issuer may redeem the debt security in whole or in part before maturity, that the redemption could affect the represented yield, and that additional redemption information is available upon request.
(2) A debt security that you effected exclusively on the basis of a dollar price
(i) The dollar price at which you effected the transaction; and
(ii) The yield to maturity calculated from the dollar price. You do not have to disclose the yield to maturity if:
(A) The issuer may extend the maturity date of the security with a variable interest rate; or
(B) The security is an asset-backed security that represents an interest in, or is secured by, a pool of receivables or other financial assets that are subject continuously to prepayment.
(3) A debt security that you effected on basis of yield
(i) The yield at which the transaction, including the percentage amount and its characterization (e.g., current yield, yield to maturity, or yield to call). If you effected the transaction at yield to call, you must indicate the type of call, the call date, and the call price;
(ii) The dollar price calculated from that yield; and
(iii) The yield to maturity and the represented yield, if you effected the transaction on a basis other than yield to maturity and the yield to maturity is lower than the represented yield. You are not required to disclose this information if:
(A) The issuer may extend the maturity date of the security with a variable interest rate; or
(B) The security is an asset-backed security that represents an interest in, or is secured by, a pool of receivables or other financial assets that are subject continuously to prepayment.
(4) A debt security that is an asset-backed security that represents an interest in, or is secured by, a pool of receivables or other financial assets that are subject continuously to prepayment
(i) A statement that the actual yield of the asset-backed security may vary according to the rate at which the underlying receivables or other financial assets are prepaid; and
(ii) A statement that you will furnish information concerning the factors that affect yield (including at a minimum estimated yield, weighted average life, and the prepayment assumptions underlying yield) upon the customer's written request.
(5) A debt security, other than a government security
A statement that the security is unrated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, if that is the case.
§ 151.100
What are the alternate notice requirements?
You may elect to satisfy § 151.70 by providing the alternate notices described in the following chart for certain types of transactions.
If you effect a securities transaction . . .
Then you may elect to . . .
(a) For or with the account of a customer under a periodic plan, sweep account, or investment company plan
Give or send to the customer within five business days after the end of each quarterly period a written statement disclosing: (1) Each purchase and redemption that you effected for or with, and each dividend or distribution that you credited to or reinvested for, the customer's account during the period;
(2) The date of each transaction;
(3) The identity, number, and price of any securities that the customer purchased or redeemed in each transaction;
(4) The total number of shares of the securities in the customer's account;
(5) Any remuneration that you received or will receive in connection with the transaction; and
(6) That you will give or send the registered broker-dealer confirmation described in § 151.80 or the written notice described in § 151.90 within a reasonable time after the customer's written request.
(b) For or with the account of a customer in shares of an open-ended management company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that holds itself out as a money market fund and attempts to maintain a stable net asset value per share
Give or send to the customer the written statement described at paragraph (a) of this section on a monthly basis. You may not use the alternate notice, however, if you deduct sales loads upon the purchase or redemption of shares in the money market fund.
(c) For an account for which you do not exercise investment discretion, and for which you and the customer have agreed in writing to an arrangement concerning the time and content of the written notice
Give or send to the customer a written notice at the agreed-upon time and with the agreed-upon content, and include a statement that you will furnish the registered broker-dealer confirmation described in § 151.80 or the written notice described in § 151.90 within a reasonable time after the customer's written request.
(d) For an account for which you exercise investment discretion other than in an agency capacity, excluding common or collective investment funds
Give or send the registered broker-dealer confirmation described in § 151.80 or the written notice described in § 151.90 within a reasonable time after a written request by the person with the power to terminate the account or, if there is no such person, any person holding a vested beneficial interest in the account.
(e) For an account in which you exercise investment discretion in an agency capacity
Give or send each customer a written itemized statement specifying the funds and securities in your custody or possession and all debits, credits, and transactions in the customer's account. You must provide this information to the customer not less than once every three months. You must give or send the registered broker-dealer confirmation described in § 151.80 or the written notice described in § 151.90 within a reasonable time after a customer's written request.
(f) For a common or collective investment fund
(1) Give or send to a customer who invests in the fund a copy of the annual financial report of the fund, or
(2) Notify the customer that a copy of the report is available and that you will furnish the report within a reasonable time after a written request by a person to whom a regular periodic accounting would ordinarily be rendered with respect to each participating account.
§ 151.120
May I charge a fee for a notice?
You may not charge a fee for providing a notice required under this subpart B, except that you may charge a reasonable fee for the notices provided under §§ 151.100(a), (d), and (e).

# Subpart C—Settlement of Securities Transactions
§ 151.130
When must I settle a securities transaction?
(a) You may not effect or enter into a contract for the purchase or sale of a security that provides for payment of funds and delivery of securities later than the latest of:
(1) The number of business days in the standard settlement cycle followed by registered broker dealers in the United States after the date of the contract. The number of business days in the standard settlement cycle shall be determined by reference to paragraph (a) of SEC Rule 15c6-1, 17 CFR 240.15c6-1(a);
(2) The fourth business day after the contract, if the contract involves the sale for cash of securities that are priced after 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on the date the securities are priced and are sold by an issuer to an underwriter under a firm commitment underwritten offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77a,
et seq.,
or are sold by you to an initial purchaser participating in the offering;
(3) Such time as the SEC may specify pursuant to an order of exemption in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of SEC Rule 15c6-1; or
(4) Such time as the parties expressly agree at the time of the transaction. The parties to a contract are deemed to have expressly agreed to an alternate date for payment of funds and delivery of securities at the time of the transaction for a contract for the sale for
cash of securities under a firm commitment offering, if the managing underwriter and the issuer have agreed to the date for all securities sold under the offering and the parties to the contract have not expressly agreed to another date for payment of funds and delivery of securities at the time of the transaction.
(b) The deadlines in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the purchase or sale of limited partnership interests that are not listed on an exchange or for which quotations are not disseminated through an automated quotation system of a registered securities association.
[76 FR 49008, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 26349, June 7, 2018]

# Subpart D—Securities Trading Policies and Procedures
§ 151.140
What policies and procedures must I maintain and follow for securities transactions?
If you effect securities transactions for customers, you must maintain and follow policies and procedures that meet all of the following requirements:
(a) Your policies and procedures must assign responsibility for the supervision of all officers or employees who:
(1) Transmit orders to, or place orders with, registered broker-dealers;
(2) Execute transactions in securities for customers; or
(3) Process orders for notice or settlement purposes, or perform other back office functions for securities transactions that you effect for customers. Policies and procedures for personnel described in this paragraph (a)(3) must provide supervision and reporting lines that are separate from supervision and reporting lines for personnel described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b) Your policies and procedures must provide for the fair and equitable allocation of securities and prices to accounts when you receive orders for the same security at approximately the same time and you place the orders for execution either individually or in combination.
(c) Your policies and procedures must provide for securities transactions in which you act as agent for the buyer and seller (crossing of buy and sell orders) on a fair and equitable basis to the parties to the transaction, where permissible under applicable law.
(d) Your policies and procedures must require your officers and employees to file the personal securities trading reports described at § 151.150, if the officer or employee:
(1) Makes investment recommendations or decisions for the accounts of customers;
(2) Participates in the determination of these recommendations or decisions; or
(3) In connection with their duties, obtains information concerning which securities you intend to purchase, sell, or recommend for purchase or sale.
§ 151.150
How do my officers and employees file reports of personal securities trading transactions?
An officer or employee described in § 151.140(d) must report all personal transactions in securities made by or on behalf of the officer or employee if he or she has a beneficial interest in the security.
(a)
Contents and filing of report.
The officer or employee must file the report with you no later than 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter. The report must include the following information:
(1) The date of each transaction, the title and number of shares, the interest rate and maturity date (if applicable), and the principal amount of each security involved.
(2) The nature of each transaction (i.e., purchase, sale, or other type of acquisition or disposition).
(3) The price at which each transaction was effected.
(4) The name of the broker, dealer, or other intermediary effecting the transaction.
(5) The date the officer or employee submitted the report.
(b)
Report not required for certain transactions.
Your officer or employee is not required to report a transaction if:
(1) He or she has no direct or indirect influence or control over the account for which the transaction was effected or over the securities held in that account;
(2) The transaction was in shares issued by an open-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(3) The transaction was in direct obligations of the government of the United States;
(4) The transaction was in bankers' acceptances, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper or high quality short term debt instruments, including repurchase agreements; or
(5) The officer or employee had an aggregate amount of purchases and sales of $10,000 or less during the calendar quarter.
(c)
Alternate report.
When you act as an investment adviser to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, an officer or employee that is an “access person” may fulfill his or her reporting requirements under this section by filing with you the “access person” personal securities trading report required by SEC Rule 17j-1(d), 17 CFR 270.17j-1(d).
PARTS 152-154 [RESERVED]
Pt. 155

# PART 155—ELECTRONIC OPERATIONS OF FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
155.100
Scope.
155.200
Use of electronic means and facilities.
155.210
Requirements for using electronic means and facilities.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 155.100
Scope.
This part describes how a Federal savings association may provide products and services through electronic means and facilities.
§ 155.200
Use of electronic means and facilities.
(a)
General.
A Federal savings association may use, or participate with others to use, electronic means or facilities to perform any function, or provide any product or service, as part of an authorized activity. Electronic means or facilities include, but are not limited to, automated teller machines, automated loan machines, personal computers, the internet, telephones, and other similar electronic devices.
(b)
Other.
To optimize the use of resources, a Federal savings association may market and sell, or participate with others to market and sell, electronic capacities and by-products to third-parties, if the savings association acquired or developed these capacities and by-products in good faith as part of providing financial services.
§ 155.210
Requirements for using electronic means and facilities.
To use electronic means and facilities under this subpart, a Federal savings association's management must:
(a) Identify, assess, and mitigate potential risks and establish prudent internal controls; and
(b) Implement security measures designed to ensure secure operations. Such measures must be adequate to:
(1) Prevent unauthorized access to the savings association's records and its customers' records;
(2) Prevent financial fraud through the use of electronic means or facilities; and
(3) Comply with applicable security devices requirements of part 168 of this chapter.
PART 156 [RESERVED]
Pt. 157

# PART 157—DEPOSITS
Sec.
157.1
What does this part do?
157.10
What authorities govern the issuance of deposit accounts by a Federal savings association?
157.11
To what extent does Federal law preempt state laws?
157.12-157.13
[Reserved]
157.14
What interest rate may I pay on accounts?
157.15
Who owns a deposit account?
157.20
What records should I maintain on deposit activities?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49025, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 157.1
What does this part do?
This part applies to the deposit activities of Federal savings associations.
§ 157.10
What authorities govern the issuance of deposit accounts by Federal savings associations?
A Federal savings association (“you”) may raise funds through accounts and may issue evidence of accounts under section 5(b)(1) of the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1464(b)(1)), your charter, and this part. Additionally, 12 CFR parts 204 and 230 apply to your deposit activities.
§ 157.11
To what extent does Federal law preempt deposit-related state laws?
State law applies to the deposit activities of Federal savings associations and their subsidiaries to the same extent and in the same manner that those laws apply to national banks and their subsidiaries.
§§ 157.12-157.13
[Reserved]
§ 157.14
What interest rate may I pay on accounts?
(a) You may pay interest at any rate or anticipated rate of return on accounts, either in deposit or in share form, as provided in your charter and the account's terms.
(b) You may pay fixed or variable rates. If you pay a variable rate, you must base it on a schedule, index, or formula that you specify in the account's terms.
§ 157.15
Who owns a deposit account?
You may treat the holder of record as the account owner, even if you receive contrary notice, until you transfer the account on your records.
§ 157.20
What records should I maintain on deposit activities?
You should establish and maintain deposit documentation practices and records that demonstrate that you appropriately administer and monitor deposit-related activities. Your records should adequately evidence ownership, balances, and all transactions involving each account. You may maintain records on deposit activities in any format that is consistent with standard business practices.
PARTS 158-159 [RESERVED]
Pt. 160

# PART 160—LENDING AND INVESTMENT
Sec.
160.1
General.
160.2
Applicability of law.
160.3
Definitions.
160.30
General lending and investment powers of Federal savings associations.
160.31
Election regarding categorization of loans or investments and related calculations.
160.32
Pass-through investments.
160.33
Late charges.
160.34
Prepayments.
160.35
Adjustments to home loans.
160.36
De minimis investments.
160.40
Commercial paper and corporate debt securities.
160.41
Leasing.
160.42
State and local government obligations.
160.43
Foreign assistance investments.
160.60
Suretyship and guaranty.
160.100
Real estate lending standards; purpose and scope.
160.101
Real estate lending standards.
160.110
Most favored lender usury preemption.
160.121
Investment in state housing corporations.
160.130
Prohibition on loan procurement fees.
160.160
Asset classification.
160.170
Records for lending transactions.
160.210
[Reserved]
160.220
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1701j-3, 1828, 3803, 3806, 5412(b)(2)(B); 42 U.S.C. 4106.

# Source:
76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 160.1
General.
(a)
Authority and scope.
This part is being issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) under its general rulemaking and supervisory authority under the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA), 12 U.S.C. 1462
et seq.
(b)
General lending standards.
Each savings association is expected to conduct its lending and investment activities prudently. Each association should use lending and investment standards that are consistent with safety and soundness, ensure adequate portfolio diversification and are appropriate for the size and condition of the institution, the nature and scope of its operations, and conditions in its lending
market. Each association should adequately monitor the condition of its portfolio and the adequacy of any collateral securing its loans.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
§ 160.2
Applicability of law.
State law applies to the lending activities of Federal savings associations and their subsidiaries to the same extent and in the same manner that those laws apply to national banks and their subsidiaries.
§ 160.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part and any determination under 12 U.S.C. 1467a(m):
Consumer loans
include loans for personal, family, or household purposes and loans reasonably incident thereto, and may be made as either open-end or closed-end consumer credit (as defined at 12 CFR 226.2(a)(10) and (20)). Consumer loans do not include credit extended in connection with credit card loans, bona fide overdraft loans, and other loans that the savings association has designated as made under investment or lending authority other than section 5(c)(2)(D) of the HOLA.
Credit card
is any card, plate, coupon book, or other single credit device that may be used from time to time to obtain credit.
Credit card account
is a credit account established in conjunction with the issuance of, or the extension of credit through, a credit card. This term includes loans made to consolidate credit card debt, including credit card debt held by other lenders, and participation certificates, securities and similar instruments secured by credit card receivables.
Home loans
include any loans made on the security of a home (including a dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property such as a condominium or a cooperative), combinations of homes and business property (
i.e.,
a home used in part for business), farm residences, and combinations of farm residences and commercial farm real estate.
Investment grade
means a security that meets the creditworthiness standards described in 12 U.S.C. 1831e.
Loan commitment
includes a loan in process, a letter of credit, or any other commitment to extend credit.
Real estate loan,
for purposes of this part, is a loan for which the savings association substantially relies upon a security interest in real estate given by the borrower as a condition of making the loan. A loan is made on the security of real estate if:
(1) The security property is real estate pursuant to the law of the state in which the property is located;
(2) The security interest of the Federal savings association may be enforced as a real estate mortgage or its equivalent pursuant to the law of the state in which the property is located;
(3) The security property is capable of separate appraisal; and
(4) With regard to a security property that is a leasehold or other interest for a period of years, the term of the interest extends, or is subject to extension or renewal at the option of the Federal savings association for a term of at least five years following the maturity of the loan.
Small business
includes a small business concern or entity as defined by section 3(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632(a), and implemented by the regulations of the Small Business Administration at 13 CFR part 121.
Small business loans
and
loans to small businesses
include any loan to a small business as defined in this section; or a loan that does not exceed $2 million (including a group of loans to one borrower) and is for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes.
Total capital
means:
(1) For a qualifying community banking organization that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework, as set forth under the OCC's Capital Adequacy Standards at part 3 of this chapter, total capital refers to the qualifying community banking organization's tier 1 capital, as used under § 3.12(b)(2) of this chapter;
(2) For all other Federal savings associations, total capital means the sum of tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital, as calculated under part 3 of this chapter.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 35258, June 13, 2012; 84 FR 61795, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 160.30
General lending and investment powers of Federal savings associations.
Pursuant to section 5(c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (“HOLA”), 12 U.S.C. 1464(c), a Federal savings association may make, invest in, purchase, sell, participate in, or otherwise deal in (including brokerage or warehousing) all loans and investments allowed under section 5(c) of the HOLA including, without limitation, the following loans, extensions of credit, and investments, subject to the limitations indicated and any such terms, conditions, or limitations as may be prescribed from time to time by the OCC by policy directive, order, or regulation:
Lending and Investment Powers Chart
Category
Statutory authorization
1
Statutory investment
limitations (Endnotes contain
applicable regulatory
limitations)
Bankers' bank stock
5(c)(4)(E)
Same terms as applicable to national banks.
Business development credit corporations
5(c)(4)(A)
The lesser of .5% of total outstanding loans or $250,000.
Commercial loans
5(c)(2)(A)
20% of total assets, provided that amounts in excess of 10% of total assets may be used only for small business loans.
Commercial paper and corporate debt securities
5(c)(2)(D)
Up to 35% of total assets.
2 3
Community development loans and equity investments
5(c)(3)(A)
5% of total assets, provided equity investments do not exceed 2% of total assets.
4
Construction loans without security
5(c)(3)(C)
In the aggregate, the greater of total capital or 5% of total assets.
Consumer loans
5(c)(2)(D)
Up to 35% of total assets.
2 5
Credit card loans or loans made through credit card accounts
5(c)(1)(T)
None.
6
Deposits in insured depository institutions
5(c)(1)(G)
None.
6
Education loans
5(c)(1)(U)
None.
6
Federal government and government-sponsored enterprise securities and instruments
5(c)(1)(C), 5(c)(1)(D), 5(c)(1)(E), 5(c)(1)(F)
None.
6
Finance leasing
5(c)(1)(B), 5(c)(2)(A), 5(c)(2)(B), 5(c)(2)(D)
Based on purpose and property financed.
7
Foreign assistance investments
5(c)(4)(C)
1% of total assets.
8
General leasing
5(c)(2)(C)
10% of assets.
7
Home improvement loans
5(c)(1)(J)
None.
6
Home (residential) loans
9
5(c)(1)(B)
None.
6 10
HUD-insured or guaranteed investments
5(c)(1)(O)
None.
6
Insured loans
5(c)(1)(I), 5(c)(1)(K)
None.
6
Liquidity investments
5(c)(1)(M)
None.
6
Loans secured by deposit accounts
5(c)(1)(A)
None.
6 11
Loans to financial institutions, brokers, and dealers
5(c)(1)(L)
None.
6 12
Manufactured home loans
5(c)(1)(J)
None.
6 13
Mortgage-backed securities
5(c)(1)(R)
None.
6
National Housing Partnership Corporation and related partnerships and joint ventures
5(c)(1)(N)
None.
6
New markets venture capital companies
5(c)(4)(F)
5% of total capital.
Nonconforming loans
5(c)(3)(B)
5% of total assets.
Nonresidential real property loans
5(c)(2)(B)
400% of total capital.
14
Open-end management investment companies
15
5(c)(1)(Q)
None.
6
Rural business investment companies
7 U.S.C. 2009cc-9
Five percent of total capital.
Service corporations
5(c)(4)(B)
3% of total assets, as long as any amounts in excess of 2% of total assets further community, inner city, or community development purposes.
16
Small business investment companies
15 U.S.C. 682(b)(2)
5% of total capital.
Small business-related securities
5(c)(1)(S)
None.
6
State and local government obligations
5(c)(1)(H)
None for general obligations. Per issuer limitation of 10% of capital for other obligations.
6 17
State housing corporations
5(c)(1)(P)
None.
6 18
Transaction account loans, including overdrafts
5(c)(1)(A)
None.
6 19
Endnotes
1
All references are to section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464) unless otherwise indicated.
2
For purposes of determining a Federal savings association's percentage of assets limitation, investment in commercial paper and corporate debt securities must be aggregated with the Federal savings association's investment in consumer loans.
3
A Federal savings association may invest in commercial paper and corporate debt securities, which includes corporate debt securities convertible into stock, subject to the provisions of § 160.40 of this part. Amounts in excess of 30% of assets, in the aggregate, may be invested only in obligations purchased by the association directly from the original obligor and for which no finder's or referral fees have been paid.
4
The 2% of assets limitation is a sublimit for investments within the overall 5% of assets limitation on community development loans and investments. The qualitative standards for such loans and investments are set forth in HOLA section 5(c)(3)(A) (formerly 5(c)(3)(B)), as explained in an opinion of the Office of Thrift Supervision Chief Counsel dated May 10, 1995.
5
Amounts in excess of 30% of assets, in the aggregate, may be invested only in loans made by the association directly to the original obligor and for which no finder's or referral fees have been paid. A Federal savings association may include loans to dealers in consumer goods to finance inventory and floor planning in the total investment made under this section.
6
While there is no statutory limit on certain categories of loans and investments, including credit card loans, home improvement loans, education loans, and deposit account loans, the OCC may establish an individual limit on such loans or investments if the association's concentration in such loans or investments presents a safety and soundness concern.
7
A Federal savings association may engage in leasing activities subject to the provisions of § 160.41 of this part.
8
This 1% of assets limitation applies to the aggregate outstanding investments made under the Foreign Assistance Act and in the capital of the Inter-American Savings and Loan Bank. Such investments may be made subject to the provisions of § 160.43 of this part.
9
A home (or residential) loan includes loans secured by one-to-four family dwellings, multi-family residential property, and loans secured by a unit or units of a condominium or housing cooperative.
10
A Federal savings association may make home loans subject to the provisions of §§ 160.33, 160.34, and 160.35 of this part.
11
Loans secured by savings accounts and other time deposits may be made without limitation, provided the Federal savings association obtains a lien on, or a pledge of, such accounts. Such loans may not exceed the withdrawable amount of the account.
12
A Federal savings association may only invest in these loans if they are secured by obligations of, or by obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, the borrower is a financial institution insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or is a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the market value of the securities for each loan at least equals the amount of the loan at the time it is made.
13
If the wheels and axles of the manufactured home have been removed and it is permanently affixed to a foundation, a loan secured by a combination of a manufactured home and developed residential lot on which it sits may be treated as a home loan.
14
Without regard to any limitations of this part, a Federal savings association may make or invest in the fully insured or guaranteed portion of nonresidential real estate loans insured or guaranteed by the Economic Development Administration, the Farmers Home Administration, or the Small Business Administration. Unguaranteed portions of guaranteed loans must be aggregated with uninsured loans when determining an association's compliance with the 400% of capital limitation for other real estate loans.
15
This authority is limited to investments in open-end management investment companies that are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The portfolio of the investment company must be restricted by the company's investment policy (changeable only if authorized by shareholder vote) solely to investments that a Federal savings association may, without limitation as to percentage of assets, invest in, sell, redeem, hold, or otherwise deal in. Separate and apart from this authority, a Federal savings association may make pass-through investments to the extent authorized by § 160.32 of this part.
16
A Federal savings association may invest in service corporations subject to the provisions of § 5.59 of this chapter.
17
This category includes obligations issued by any state, territory, or possession of the United States or political subdivision thereof (including any agency, corporation, or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision), subject to § 160.42 of this part.
18
A Federal savings association may invest in state housing corporations subject to the provisions of § 160.121 of this part.
19
Payments on accounts in excess of the account balance (overdrafts) on commercial deposit or transaction accounts shall be considered commercial loans for purposes of determining the association's percentage of assets limitation.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]
§ 160.31
Election regarding categorization of loans or investments and related calculations.
(a) If a loan or other investment is authorized under more than one section of the HOLA, as amended, or this part, a Federal savings association may designate under which section the loan or investment has been made. Such a loan or investment may be apportioned among appropriate categories, and may be moved, in whole or part, from one category to another. A loan commitment shall be counted as an investment and included in total assets of a Federal savings association for purposes of calculating compliance with HOLA section 5(c)'s investment limitations only to the extent that funds have been advanced and not repaid pursuant to the commitment.
(b) Loans or portions of loans sold to a third party shall be included in the calculation of a percentage-of-assets or percentage-of-capital investment limitation only to the extent they are sold with recourse.
(c) A Federal savings association may make a loan secured by an assignment of loans to the extent that it could, under applicable law and regulations, make or purchase the underlying assigned loans.
§ 160.32
Pass-through investments.
(a) A Federal savings association (“you”) may make pass-through investments. A pass-through investment occurs when you invest in an entity (“company”) that engages only in activities that you may conduct directly and the investment meets the requirements of this section. If an investment is authorized under both this section and some other provision of law, you may designate under which authority or authorities the investment is made. When making a pass-through investment, you must comply with all the statutes and regulations that would apply if you were engaging in the activity directly. For example, your proportionate share of the company's assets will be aggregated with the assets you hold directly in calculating investment limits (
e.g.,
no more than 400% of total capital may be invested in nonresidential real property loans).
(b) Your pass-through investments are subject to the requirements and filing procedures of 12 CFR 5.58.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]
§ 160.33
Late charges.
A Federal savings association may include in a home loan contract a provision authorizing the imposition of a late charge with respect to the payment of any delinquent periodic payment. With respect to any loan made after July 31, 1976, on the security of a home occupied or to be occupied by the borrower, no late charge, regardless of form, shall be assessed or collected by a Federal savings association, unless any billing, coupon, or notice the Federal savings association may provide regarding installment payments due on the loan discloses the date after which the charge may be assessed. A Federal savings association may not impose a late charge more than one time for late payment of the same installment, and any installment payment made by the borrower shall be applied to the longest outstanding installment due. A Federal savings association shall not assess a late charge as to any payment received by it within fifteen days after the due date of such payment. No form of such late charge permitted by this paragraph shall be considered as interest to the Federal savings association and the Federal savings association shall not deduct late charges from the regular periodic installment payments on the loan, but must collect them as such from the borrower.
§ 160.34
Prepayments.
Any prepayment on a real estate loan must be applied directly to reduce the principal balance on the loan unless the loan contract or the borrower specifies otherwise. Subject to the terms of the loan contract, a Federal savings association may impose a fee for any prepayment of a loan.
§ 160.35
Adjustments to home loans.
(a) For any home loan secured by borrower-occupied property, or property to be occupied by the borrower, adjustments to the interest rate, payment, balance, or term to maturity must comply with the limitations of this section and the disclosure and notice requirements of 560.210 until superseding regulations are issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
(b) Adjustments to the interest rate shall correspond directly to the movement of an index satisfying the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. A Federal savings association also may increase the interest rate pursuant to a formula or schedule that specifies the amount of the increase, the time at which it may be made, and which is set forth in the loan contract. A Federal savings association may decrease the interest rate at any time.
(c) Adjustments to the payment and the loan balance that do not reflect an interest-rate adjustment may be made if:
(1) The adjustments reflect a change in an index that may be used pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) In the case of a payment adjustment, the adjustment reflects a change in the loan balance or is made pursuant
to a formula, or to a schedule specifying the percentage or dollar change in the payment as set forth in the loan contract; or
(3) In the case of an open-end line-of-credit loan, the adjustment reflects an advance taken by the borrower under the line-of-credit and is permitted by the loan contract.
(d)(1) Any index used must be readily available and independently verifiable. If set forth in the loan contract, an association may use any combination of indices, a moving average of index values, or more than one index during the term of a loan.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, any index used must be a national or regional index.
(3) A Federal savings association may use an index not satisfying the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section 30 days after filing a notice unless, within that 30-day period, the OCC has notified the association that the notice presents supervisory concerns or raises significant issues of law or policy. If the OCC provides such notice to the Federal savings association, the Federal savings association may not use that index unless it applies for and receives the OCC's prior written approval.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 28480, May 18, 2015]
§ 160.36
De minimis investments.
A Federal savings association may invest in the aggregate up to the greater of 1% of its total capital or $250,000 in community development investments of the type permitted for a national bank under 12 CFR part 24.
§ 160.40
Commercial paper and corporate debt securities.
Pursuant to HOLA section 5(c)(2)(D), a Federal savings association may invest in, sell, or hold commercial paper and corporate debt securities subject to the provisions of this section.
(a)
Limitations.
(1) Commercial paper must be:
(i) Investment grade as of the date of purchase; or
(ii) Guaranteed by a company having outstanding paper that meets the standard set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) Corporate debt securities must be:
(i) Securities that may be sold with reasonable promptness at a price that corresponds reasonably to their fair value; and
(ii) Investment grade.
(3) A Federal savings association's total investment in the commercial paper and corporate debt securities of any one issuer, or issued by any one person or entity affiliated with such issuer, together with other loans, shall not exceed the general lending limitations contained in § 32.3(a) of this chapter.
(4) Investments in corporate debt securities convertible into stock are subject to the following additional limitations:
(i) The purchase of securities convertible into stock at the option of the issuer is prohibited;
(ii) At the time of purchase, the cost of such securities must be written down to an amount that represents the investment value of the securities considered independently of the conversion feature; and
(iii) Federal savings associations are prohibited from exercising the conversion feature.
(5) A Federal savings association shall maintain information in its files adequate to demonstrate that it has exercised prudent judgment in making investments under this section.
(b) Notwithstanding the limitations contained in this section, the OCC may permit investment in corporate debt securities of another savings association in connection with the purchase or sale of a branch office or in connection with a supervisory merger or acquisition.
(c)
Underwriting.
Before committing to acquire any investment security, a Federal savings association must determine whether the investment is safe and sound and suitable for the association. The Federal savings association must consider, as appropriate, the interest rate, credit, liquidity, price, transaction, and other risks associated with the investment activity. The Federal savings association must also determine that the issuer has adequate
resources and the willingness to provide for all required payments on its obligations in a timely manner.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 35258, June 13, 2012; 77 FR 37283, June 21, 2012]
§ 160.41
Leasing.
(a)
Permissible activities.
Subject to the limitations of this section, a Federal savings association may engage in leasing activities. These activities include becoming the legal or beneficial owner of tangible personal property or real property for the purpose of leasing such property, obtaining an assignment of a lessor's interest in a lease of such property, and incurring obligations incidental to its position as the legal or beneficial owner and lessor of the leased property.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
net lease
means a lease under which the Federal savings association will not, directly or indirectly, provide or be obligated to provide for:
(i) The servicing, repair or maintenance of the leased property during the lease term;
(ii) The purchasing of parts and accessories for the leased property, except that improvements and additions to the leased property may be leased to the lessee upon its request in accordance with the full-payout requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(iii) The loan of replacement or substitute property while the leased property is being serviced;
(iv) The purchasing of insurance for the lessee, except where the lessee has failed to discharge a contractual obligation to purchase or maintain insurance; or
(v) The renewal of any license, registration, or filing for the property unless such action by the Federal savings association is necessary to protect its interest as an owner or financier of the property.
(2) The term
full-payout lease
means a lease transaction in which any unguaranteed portion of the estimated residual value relied on by the association to yield the return of its full investment in the leased property, plus the estimated cost of financing the property over the term of the lease, does not exceed 25% of the original cost of the property to the lessor. In general, a lease will qualify as a full-payout lease if the scheduled payments provide at least 75% of the principal and interest payments that a lessor would receive if the finance lease were structured as a market-rate loan.
(3) The term
realization of investment
means that a Federal savings association that enters into a lease financing transaction must reasonably expect to realize the return of its full investment in the leased property, plus the estimated cost of financing the property over the term of the lease from:
(i) Rentals;
(ii) Estimated tax benefits, if any; and
(iii) The estimated residual value of the property at the expiration of the term of the lease.
(c)
Finance leasing
—(1)
Investment limits.
A Federal savings association may exercise its authority under HOLA sections 5(c)(1)(B) (residential real estate loans), 5(c)(2)(A) (commercial, business, corporate or agricultural loans), 5(c)(2)(B) (nonresidential real estate loans), and 5(c)(2)(D) (consumer loans) by conducting leasing activities that are the functional equivalent of loans made under those HOLA sections. These activities are commonly referred to as financing leases. Such financing leases are subject to the same investment limits that apply to loans made under those sections. For example, a financing lease of tangible personal property made to a natural person for personal, family or household purposes is subject to all limitations applicable to the amount of a Federal savings association's investment in consumer loans. A financing lease made for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes is subject to all limitations applicable to the amount of a Federal savings association's investment in commercial loans. A financing lease of residential or nonresidential real property is subject to all limitations applicable to the amount of a Federal savings association's investment in these types of real estate loans.
(2)
Functional equivalent of lending.
To qualify as the functional equivalent of a loan:
(i) The lease must be a net, full-payout lease representing a non-cancelable obligation of the lessee, notwithstanding the possible early termination of the lease;
(ii) The portion of the estimated residual value of the property relied upon by the lessor to satisfy the requirements of a full-payout lease must be reasonable in light of the nature of the leased property and all relevant circumstances so that realization of the lessor's full investment plus the cost of financing the property depends primarily on the creditworthiness of the lessee, and not on the residual market value of the leased property; and
(iii) At the termination of a financing lease, either by expiration or default, property acquired must be liquidated or released on a net basis as soon as practicable. Any property held in anticipation of re-leasing must be reevaluated and recorded at the lower of fair market value or book value.
(d)
General leasing.
Pursuant to section 5(c)(2)(C) of the HOLA, a Federal savings association may invest in tangible personal property, including vehicles, manufactured homes, machinery, equipment, or furniture, for the purpose of leasing that property. In contrast to financing leases, lease investments made under this authority need not be the functional equivalent of loans.
(e)
Leasing salvage powers.
If, in good faith, a Federal savings association believes that there has been an unanticipated change in conditions that threatens its financial position by significantly increasing its exposure to loss, it may:
(1) As the owner and lessor, take reasonable and appropriate action to salvage or protect the value of the property or its interest arising under the lease;
(2) As the assignee of a lessor's interest in a lease, become the owner and lessor of the leased property pursuant to its contractual right, or take any reasonable and appropriate action to salvage or protect the value of the property or its interest arising under the lease; or
(3) Include any provisions in a lease, or make any additional agreements, to protect its financial position or investment in the circumstances set forth in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
§ 160.42
State and local government obligations.
(a) Pursuant to HOLA section 5(c)(1)(H), a Federal savings association may invest in obligations issued by any state, territory, possession, or political subdivision thereof (“governmental entity”), subject to appropriate underwriting and the following conditions:
Aggregate limitation
Per-issuer limitation
(1) General obligations
None
None.
(2) Other obligations of a governmental entity (
e.g.
, revenue bonds) if the issuer has an adequate capacity to meet financial commitments under the security for the projected life of the asset or exposure. An issuer has an adequate capacity to meet financial commitments if the risk of default by the obligor is low and the full and timely repayment of principal and interest is expected
None
10% of the institution's total capital.
(3) Obligations of a governmental entity that do not qualify under any other paragraph but are approved by the OCC
As approved by the OCC
10% of the institution's total capital.
(b)
What is a political subdivision? Political subdivision
means a county, city, town, or other municipal corporation, a public authority, or a publicly-owned entity that is an instrumentality of a state or a municipal corporation.
(c)
What is a general obligation of a state or political subdivision?
A
general obligation
is an obligation that is guaranteed by the full faith and credit of a state or political subdivision that has the power to tax. Indirect payments, such as through a special fund, may qualify as general obligations if a state or political subdivision with taxing authority has unconditionally agreed to provide funds to cover payments.
(d) For all securities, the institution must consider, as appropriate, the interest rate, credit, liquidity, price, transaction, and other risks associated
with the investment activity and determine that such investment is appropriate for the institution. The institution must also determine that the obligor has adequate resources and willingness to provide for all required payments on its obligations in a timely manner.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 35258, June 13, 2012]
§ 160.43
Foreign assistance investments.
Pursuant to HOLA section 5(c)(4)(C), a Federal savings association may make foreign assistance investments in an aggregate amount not to exceed one percent of its assets, subject to the following conditions:
(a) For any investment made under the Foreign Assistance Act, the loan agreement shall specify what constitutes an event of default, and provide that upon default in payment of principal or interest under such agreement, the entire amount of outstanding indebtedness thereunder shall become immediately due and payable, at the lender's option. Additionally, the contract of guarantee shall cover 100% of any loss of investment thereunder, except for any portion of the loan arising out of fraud or misrepresentation for which the party seeking payment is responsible, and provide that the guarantor shall pay for any such loss in U.S. dollars within a specified reasonable time after the date of application for payment.
(b) To make any investments in the share capital and capital reserve of the Inter-American Savings and Loan Bank, a Federal savings association must be adequately capitalized and have adequate allowances for loan and lease losses. The Federal savings association's aggregate investment in such capital or capital reserve, including the amount of any obligations undertaken to provide said Bank with reserve capital in the future (call-able capital), must not, as a result of such investment, exceed the lesser of one-quarter of 1% of its assets or $100,000.
§ 160.60
Suretyship and guaranty.
Pursuant to section 5(b)(2) of the HOLA, a Federal savings association may enter into a repayable suretyship or guaranty agreement, subject to the conditions in this section.
(a)
What is a suretyship or guaranty agreement?
Under a suretyship, a Federal savings association is bound with its principal to pay or perform an obligation to a third person. Under a guaranty agreement, a Federal savings association agrees to satisfy the obligation of the principal only if the principal fails to pay or perform.
(b)
What requirements apply to suretyship and guaranty agreements under this section?
A Federal savings association may enter into a suretyship or guaranty agreement under this section, subject to each of the following requirements:
(1) The Federal savings association must limit its obligations under the agreement to a fixed dollar amount and a specified duration.
(2) The Federal savings association's performance under the agreement must create an authorized loan or other investment.
(3) The Federal savings association must treat its obligation under the agreement as a loan to the principal for purposes of 12 CFR 31.2 and part 32 of this chapter.
(4) The Federal savings association must take and maintain a perfected security interest in collateral sufficient to cover its total obligation under the agreement.
(c)
What collateral is sufficient?
(1) The Federal savings association must take and maintain a perfected security interest in real estate or marketable securities equal to at least 110 percent of its obligation under the agreement, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(i) If the collateral is real estate, the Federal savings association must establish the value by a signed appraisal or evaluation in accordance with part 34, subpart C of this chapter. In determining the value of the collateral, the Federal savings association must factor in the value of any existing senior mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the property, except those held by the principal to the suretyship or guaranty agreement.
(ii) If the collateral is marketable securities, the Federal savings association must be authorized to invest in
that security taken as collateral. The Federal savings association must ensure that the value of the security is 110 percent of the obligation at all times during the term of agreement.
(2) The Federal savings association may take and maintain a perfected security interest in collateral which is at all times equal to at least 100 percent of its obligation, if the collateral is:
(i) Cash;
(ii) Obligations of the United States or its agencies;
(iii) Obligations fully guarantied by the United States or its agencies as to principal and interest; or
(iv) Notes, drafts, or bills of exchange or bankers' acceptances that are eligible for rediscount or purchase by a Federal Reserve Bank.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 37283, June 21, 2012; 79 FR 28401, May 16, 2014; 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
§ 160.100
Real estate lending standards; purpose and scope.
This section, and § 160.101 of this subpart, issued pursuant to section 304 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, 12 U.S.C. 1828(o), prescribe standards for real estate lending to be used by Federal savings associations and all their includable subsidiaries, as defined in 12 CFR 3.22(a)(8)(iv) over which the savings associations exercise control, in adopting internal real estate lending policies.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 160.101
Real estate lending standards.
(a) Each Federal savings association shall adopt and maintain written policies that establish appropriate limits and standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens on or interests in real estate, or that are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate.
(b)(1) Real estate lending policies adopted pursuant to this section must:
(i) Be consistent with safe and sound banking practices;
(ii) Be appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its operations; and
(iii) Be reviewed and approved by the savings association's board of directors at least annually.
(2) The lending policies must establish:
(i) Loan portfolio diversification standards;
(ii) Prudent underwriting standards, including loan-to-value limits, that are clear and measurable;
(iii) Loan administration procedures for the savings association's real estate portfolio; and
(iv) Documentation, approval, and reporting requirements to monitor compliance with the savings association's real estate lending policies.
(c) Each Federal savings association must monitor conditions in the real estate market in its lending area to ensure that its real estate lending policies continue to be appropriate for current market conditions.
(d) The real estate lending policies adopted pursuant to this section should reflect consideration of the Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies established by the Federal bank and thrift supervisory agencies.

# Appendix to § 160.101—Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies
The agencies' regulations require that each insured depository institution adopt and maintain a written policy that establishes appropriate limits and standards for all extensions of credit that are secured by liens on or interests in real estate or made for the purpose of financing the construction of a building or other improvements.
1
These guidelines are intended to assist institutions in the formulation and maintenance of a real estate lending policy that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its individual operations, as well as satisfies the requirements of the regulation.
1
The agencies have adopted a uniform rule on real estate lending. See 12 CFR part 365 (FDIC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart C (Board); 12 CFR part 34, subpart D and 12 CFR 160.100-160.101 (OCC).
Each institution's policies must be comprehensive, and consistent with safe and sound lending practices, and must ensure that the institution operates within limits and according to standards that are reviewed and approved at least annually by the board of directors. Real estate lending is an integral part of many institutions' business plans and, when undertaken in a prudent
manner, will not be subject to examiner criticism.

# Loan Portfolio Management Considerations
The lending policy should contain a general outline of the scope and distribution of the institution's credit facilities and the manner in which real estate loans are made, serviced, and collected. In particular, the institution's policies on real estate lending should:
• Identify the geographic areas in which the institution will consider lending.
• Establish a loan portfolio diversification policy and set limits for real estate loans by type and geographic market (
e.g.,
limits on higher risk loans).
• Identify appropriate terms and conditions by type of real estate loan.
• Establish loan origination and approval procedures, both generally and by size and type of loan.
• Establish prudent underwriting standards that are clear and measurable, including loan-to-value limits, that are consistent with these supervisory guidelines.
• Establish review and approval procedures for exception loans, including loans with loan-to-value percentages in excess of supervisory limits.
• Establish loan administration procedures, including documentation, disbursement, collateral inspection, collection, and loan review.
• Establish real estate appraisal and evaluation programs.
• Require that management monitor the loan portfolio and provide timely and adequate reports to the board of directors.
The institution should consider both internal and external factors in the formulation of its loan policies and strategic plan. Factors that should be considered include:
• The size and financial condition of the institution.
• The expertise and size of the lending staff.
• The need to avoid undue concentrations of risk.
• Compliance with all real estate related laws and regulations, including the Community Reinvestment Act, anti-discrimination laws, and for savings associations, the Qualified Thrift Lender test.
• Market conditions.
The institution should monitor conditions in the real estate markets in its lending area so that it can react quickly to changes in market conditions that are relevant to its lending decisions. Market supply and demand factors that should be considered include:
• Demographic indicators, including population and employment trends.
• Zoning requirements.
• Current and projected vacancy, construction, and absorption rates.
• Current and projected lease terms, rental rates, and sales prices, including concessions.
• Current and projected operating expenses for different types of projects.
• Economic indicators, including trends and diversification of the lending area.
• Valuation trends, including discount and direct capitalization rates.

# Underwriting Standards
Prudently underwritten real estate loans should reflect all relevant credit factors, including:
• The capacity of the borrower, or income from the underlying property, to adequately service the debt.
• The value of the mortgaged property.
• The overall creditworthiness of the borrower.
• The level of equity invested in the property.
• Any secondary sources of repayment.
• Any additional collateral or credit enhancements (such as guarantees, mortgage insurance or takeout commitments).
The lending policies should reflect the level of risk that is acceptable to the board of directors and provide clear and measurable underwriting standards that enable the institution's lending staff to evaluate these credit factors. The underwriting standards should address:
• The maximum loan amount by type of property.
• Maximum loan maturities by type of property.
• Amortization schedules.
• Pricing structure for different types of real estate loans.
• Loan-to-value limits by type of property.
For development and construction projects, and completed commercial properties, the policy should also establish, commensurate with the size and type of the project or property:
• Requirements for feasibility studies and sensitivity and risk analyses (
e.g.,
sensitivity of income projections to changes in economic variables such as interest rates, vacancy rates, or operating expenses).
• Minimum requirements for initial investment and maintenance of hard equity by the borrower (
e.g.,
cash or unencumbered investment in the underlying property).
• Minimum standards for net worth, cash flow, and debt service coverage of the borrower or underlying property.
• Standards for the acceptability of and limits on non-amortizing loans.
• Standards for the acceptability of and limits on the use of interest reserves.
• Pre-leasing and pre-sale requirements for income-producing property.
• Pre-sale and minimum unit release requirements for non-income-producing property loans.
• Limits on partial recourse or nonrecourse loans and requirements for guarantor support.
• Requirements for takeout commitments.
• Minimum covenants for loan agreements.

# Loan Administration
The institution should also establish loan administration procedures for its real estate portfolio that address:
• Documentation, including:
Type and frequency of financial statements, including requirements for verification of information provided by the borrower;
Type and frequency of collateral evaluations (appraisals and other estimates of value).
• Loan closing and disbursement.
• Payment processing.
• Escrow administration.
• Collateral administration.
• Loan payoffs.
• Collections and foreclosure, including:
Delinquency follow-up procedures;
Foreclosure timing;
Extensions and other forms of forbearance;
Acceptance of deeds in lieu of foreclosure.
• Claims processing (
e.g.,
seeking recovery on a defaulted loan covered by a government guaranty or insurance program).
• Servicing and participation agreements.

# Supervisory Loan-to-Value Limits
Institutions should establish their own internal loan-to-value limits for real estate loans. These internal limits should not exceed the following supervisory limits:
Loan category
Loan-to-value limit (percent)
Raw land
65
Land development
75
Construction:
Commercial, multifamily,
1
and other nonresidential
80
1- to 4-family residential
85
Improved property
85
Owner-occupied 1- to 4-family and home equity
(
2
)
1
Multifamily construction includes condominiums and cooperatives.
2
A loan-to-value limit has not been established for permanent mortgage or home equity loans on owner-occupied, 1- to 4-family residential property. However, for any such loan with a loan-to-value ratio that equals or exceeds 90 percent at origination, an institution should require appropriate credit enhancement in the form of either mortgage insurance or readily marketable collateral.
The supervisory loan-to-value limits should be applied to the underlying property that collateralizes the loan. For loans that fund multiple phases of the same real estate project (
e.g.,
a loan for both land development and construction of an office building), the appropriate loan-to-value limit is the limit applicable to the final phase of the project funded by the loan; however, loan disbursements should not exceed actual development or construction outlays. In situations where a loan is fully cross-collateralized by two or more properties or is secured by a collateral pool of two or more properties, the appropriate maximum loan amount under supervisory loan-to-value limits is the sum of the value of each property, less senior liens, multiplied by the appropriate loan-to-value limit for each property. To ensure that collateral margins remain within the supervisory limits, lenders should redetermine conformity whenever collateral substitutions are made to the collateral pool.
In establishing internal loan-to-value limits, each lender is expected to carefully consider the institution-specific and market factors listed under “Loan Portfolio Management Considerations,” as well as any other relevant factors, such as the particular subcategory or type of loan. For any subcategory of loans that exhibits greater credit risk than the overall category, a lender should consider the establishment of an internal loan-to-value limit for that subcategory that is lower than the limit for the overall category.
The loan-to-value ratio is only one of several pertinent credit factors to be considered when underwriting a real estate loan. Other credit factors to be taken into account are highlighted in the “Underwriting Standards” section above. Because of these other factors, the establishment of these supervisory limits should not be interpreted to mean that loans at these levels will automatically be considered sound.

# Loans in Excess of the Supervisory Loan-to-Value Limits
The agencies recognize that appropriate loan-to-value limits vary not only among categories of real estate loans but also among individual loans. Therefore, it may be appropriate in individual cases to originate or purchase loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value limits, based on the support provided by other credit factors. Such loans should be identified in the institutions' records, and their aggregate amount reported at least
quarterly to the institution's board of directors. (
see
additional reporting requirements described under “Exceptions to the General Policy.”) The aggregate amount of all loans in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value limits should not exceed 100 percent of total capital.
2
Moreover, within the aggregate limit, total loans for all commercial, agricultural, multifamily or other non-1-to-4 family residential properties should not exceed 30 percent of total capital. An institution will come under increased supervisory scrutiny as the total of such loans approaches these levels.
2
For the state member banks, the term “total capital” means “total risk-based capital” as defined in Appendix A to 12 CFR part 208. For insured state non-member banks, “total capital” refers to that term described in table I of Appendix A to 12 CFR part 325. For national banks and Federal savings associations, the term “total capital” is defined at 12 CFR 3.2.
In determining the aggregate amount of such loans, institutions should: (a) Include all loans secured by the same property if any one of those loans exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limits; and (b) include the recourse obligation of any such loan sold with recourse. Conversely, a loan should no longer be reported to the directors as part of aggregate totals when reduction in principal or senior liens, or additional contribution of collateral or equity (
e.g.,
improvements to the real property securing the loan), bring the loan-to-value ratio into compliance with supervisory limits.

# Excluded Transactions
The agencies also recognize that there are a number of lending situations in which other factors significantly outweigh the need to apply the supervisory loan-to-value limits.
These include:
• Loans guaranteed or insured by the U.S. government or its agencies, provided that the amount of the guaranty or insurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit.
• Loans backed by the full faith and credit of a state government, provided that the amount of the assurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit.
• Loans guaranteed or insured by a state, municipal or local government, or an agency thereof, provided that the amount of the guaranty or insurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit, and provided that the lender has determined that the guarantor or insurer has the financial capacity and willingness to perform under the terms of the guaranty or insurance agreement.
• Loans that are to be sold promptly after origination, without recourse, to a financially responsible third party.
• Loans that are renewed, refinanced, or restructured without the advancement of new funds or an increase in the line of credit (except for reasonable closing costs), or loans that are renewed, refinanced, or restructured in connection with a workout situation, either with or without the advancement of new funds, where consistent with safe and sound banking practices and part of a clearly defined and well-documented program to achieve orderly liquidation of the debt, reduce risk of loss, or maximize recovery on the loan.
• Loans that facilitate the sale of real estate acquired by the lender in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith.
• Loans for which a lien on or interest in real property is taken as additional collateral through an abundance of caution by the lender (
e.g.,
the institution takes a blanket lien on all or substantially all of the assets of the borrower, and the value of the real property is low relative to the aggregate value of all other collateral).
• Loans, such as working capital loans, where the lender does not rely principally on real estate as security and the extension of credit is not used to acquire, develop, or construct permanent improvements on real property.
• Loans for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real property, but not secured by the property, if such security interest is not required by prudent underwriting practice.

# Exceptions to the General Lending Policy
Some provision should be made for the consideration of loan requests from creditworthy borrowers whose credit needs do not fit within the institution's general lending policy. An institution may provide for prudently underwritten exceptions to its lending policies, including loan-to-value limits, on a loan-by-loan basis. However, any exceptions from the supervisory loan-to-value limits should conform to the aggregate limits on such loans discussed above.
The board of directors is responsible for establishing standards for the review and approval of exception loans. Each institution should establish an appropriate internal process for the review and approval of loans that do not conform to its own internal policy standards. The approval of any such loan should be supported by a written justification that clearly sets forth all of the relevant credit factors that support the underwriting decision. The justification and approval documents for such loans should be maintained as a part of the permanent loan
file. Each institution should monitor compliance with its real estate lending policy and individually report exception loans of a significant size to its board of directors.

# Supervisory Review of Real Estate Lending Policies and Practices
The real estate lending policies of institutions will be evaluated by examiners during the course of their examinations to determine if the policies are consistent with safe and sound lending practices, these guidelines, and the requirements of the regulation. In evaluating the adequacy of the institution's real estate lending policies and practices, examiners will take into consideration the following factors:
• The nature and scope of the institution's real estate lending activities.
• The size and financial condition of the institution.
• The quality of the institution's management and internal controls.
• The expertise and size of the lending and loan administration staff.
• Market conditions.
Lending policy exception reports will also be reviewed by examiners during the course of their examinations to determine whether the institutions' exceptions are adequately documented and appropriate in light of all of the relevant credit considerations. An excessive volume of exceptions to an institution's real estate lending policy may signal a weakening of its underwriting practices, or may suggest a need to revise the loan policy.

# Definitions
For the purposes of these Guidelines:
Construction loan
means an extension of credit for the purpose of erecting or rehabilitating buildings or other structures, including any infrastructure necessary for development.
Extension of credit or loan means:
(1) The total amount of any loan, line of credit, or other legally binding lending commitment with respect to real property; and
(2) The total amount, based on the amount of consideration paid, of any loan, line of credit, or other legally binding lending commitment acquired by a lender by purchase, assignment, or otherwise.
Improved property loan
means an extension of credit secured by one of the following types of real property:
(1) Farmland, ranchland or timberland committed to ongoing management and agricultural production;
(2) 1- to 4-family residential property that is not owner-occupied;
(3) Residential property containing five or more individual dwelling units;
(4) Completed commercial property; or
(5) Other income-producing property that has been completed and is available for occupancy and use, except income-producing owner-occupied 1- to 4-family residential property.
Land development loan
means an extension of credit for the purpose of improving unimproved real property prior to the erection of structures. The improvement of unimproved real property may include the laying or placement of sewers, water pipes, utility cables, streets, and other infrastructure necessary for future development.
Loan origination
means the time of inception of the obligation to extend credit (
i.e.,
when the last event or prerequisite, controllable by the lender, occurs causing the lender to become legally bound to fund an extension of credit).
Loan-to-value
or
loan-to-value ratio
means the percentage or ratio that is derived at the time of loan origination by dividing an extension of credit by the total value of the property(ies) securing or being improved by the extension of credit plus the amount of any readily marketable collateral and other acceptable collateral that secures the extension of credit. The total amount of all senior liens on or interests in such property(ies) should be included in determining the loan-to-value ratio. When mortgage insurance or collateral is used in the calculation of the loan-to-value ratio, and such credit enhancement is later released or replaced, the loan-to-value ratio should be recalculated.
Other acceptable collateral
means any collateral in which the lender has a perfected security interest that has a quantifiable value, and is accepted by the lender in accordance with safe and sound lending practices. Other acceptable collateral should be appropriately discounted by the lender consistent with the lender's usual practices for making loans secured by such collateral. Other acceptable collateral includes, among other items, unconditional irrevocable standby letters of credit for the benefit of the lender.
Owner-occupied,
when used in conjunction with the term
1- to 4-family residential property
means that the owner of the underlying real property occupies at least one unit of the real property as a principal residence of the owner.
Readily marketable collateral
means insured deposits, financial instruments, and bullion in which the lender has a perfected interest. Financial instruments and bullion must be salable under ordinary circumstances with reasonable promptness at a fair market value determined by quotations based on actual transactions, on an auction or similarly available daily bid and ask price market. Readily marketable collateral should be appropriately discounted by the lender consistent with the lender's usual practices for making loans secured by such collateral.
Value
means an opinion or estimate, set forth in an appraisal or evaluation, whichever may be appropriate, of the market value of real property, prepared in accordance with the agency's appraisal regulations and guidance. For loans to purchase an existing property, the term “value” means the lesser of the actual acquisition cost or the estimate of value.
1- to 4-family residential property
means property containing fewer than five individual dwelling units, including manufactured homes permanently affixed to the underlying property (when deemed to be real property under state law).
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 160.110
Most favored lender usury preemption for all savings associations.
(a)
Definition.
The term “interest” as used in 12 U.S.C. 1463(g) includes any payment compensating a creditor or prospective creditor for an extension of credit, making available of a line of credit, or any default or breach by a borrower of a condition upon which credit was extended. It includes, among other things, the following fees connected with credit extension or availability: numerical periodic rates, late fees, not sufficient funds (NSF) fees, overlimit fees, annual fees, cash advance fees, and membership fees. It does not ordinarily include appraisal fees, premiums and commissions attributable to insurance guaranteeing repayment of any extension of credit, finders' fees, fees for document preparation or notarization, or fees incurred to obtain credit reports.
(b)
Authority.
A savings association located in a state may charge interest at the maximum rate permitted to any state-chartered or licensed lending institution by the law of that state. If state law permits different interest charges on specified classes of loans, a Federal savings association making such loans is subject only to the provisions of state law relating to that class of loans that are material to the determination of the permitted interest. For example, a Federal savings association may lawfully charge the highest rate permitted to be charged by a state-licensed small loan company, without being so licensed, but subject to state law limitations on the size of loans made by small loan companies. State supervisors determine the degree to which state-chartered savings associations must comply with state laws other than those imposing restrictions on interest, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Effect on state definitions of interest.
The Federal definition of the term “interest” in paragraph (a) of this section does not change how interest is defined by the individual states (nor how the state definition of interest is used) solely for purposes of state law. For example, if late fees are not “interest” under state law where a savings association is located but state law permits its most favored lender to charge late fees, then a savings association located in that state may charge late fees to its intrastate customers. The savings association may also charge late fees to its interstate customers because the fees are interest under the Federal definition of interest and an allowable charge under state law where the savings association is located. However, the late fees would not be treated as interest for purposes of evaluating compliance with state usury limitations because state law excludes late fees when calculating the maximum interest that lending institutions may charge under those limitations.
(d)
Transferred loans.
Interest on a loan that is permissible under 12 U.S.C. 1463(g)(1) shall not be affected by the sale, assignment, or other transfer of the loan.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 33536, June 2, 2020]
§ 160.121
Investment in state housing corporations.
(a) Any Federal savings association to the extent it has legal authority to do so, may make investments in, commitments to invest in, loans to, or commitments to lend to any state housing corporation; provided, that such obligations or loans are secured directly, or indirectly through a fiduciary, by a first lien on improved real estate which is insured under the National Housing Act, as amended, and that in the event of default, the holder of such obligations or loans has the right directly, or indirectly through a
fiduciary, to subject to the satisfaction of such obligations or loans the real estate described in the first lien, or the insurance proceeds.
(b) Any Federal savings association that is adequately capitalized may, to the extent it has legal authority to do so, invest in obligations (including loans) of, or issued by, any state housing corporation incorporated in the state in which such savings association has its home or a branch office; provided (except with respect to loans), that:
(1) The obligations are investment grade; or
(2) The obligations are approved by the OCC. The aggregate outstanding direct investment in obligations under paragraph (b) of this section shall not exceed the amount of the Federal savings association's total capital.
(c) Each state housing corporation in which a savings association invests under the authority of paragraph (b) of this section shall agree, before accepting any such investment (including any loan or loan commitment), to make available at any time to the OCC such information as the OCC may consider to be necessary to ensure that investments are properly made under this section.
[76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 35259, June 13, 2012]
§ 160.130
Prohibition on loan procurement fees.
If you are a director, officer, or other natural person having the power to direct the management or policies of a Federal savings association, you must not receive, directly or indirectly, any commission, fee, or other compensation in connection with the procurement of any loan made by the savings association or a subsidiary of the savings association.
§ 160.160
Asset classification.
(a)(1) Each savings association must evaluate and classify its assets on a regular basis in a manner consistent with, or reconcilable to, the asset classification system used by the OCC.
(2) In connection with the examination of a savings association or its affiliates, OCC examiners may identify problem assets and classify them, if appropriate. The association must recognize such examiner classifications in its subsequent reports to the OCC.
(b) Based on the evaluation and classification of its assets, each savings association shall establish adequate valuation allowances or charge-offs, as appropriate, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles and the practices of the Federal banking agencies.
§ 160.170
Records for lending transactions.
In establishing and maintaining its records pursuant to § 163.170 of this chapter, each Federal savings association and service corporation should establish and maintain loan documentation practices that:
(a) Ensure that the institution can make an informed lending decision and can assess risk on an ongoing basis;
(b) Identify the purpose and all sources of repayment for each loan, and assess the ability of the borrower(s) and any guarantor(s) to repay the indebtedness in a timely manner;
(c) Ensure that any claims against a borrower, guarantor, security holders, and collateral are legally enforceable;
(d) Demonstrate appropriate administration and monitoring of its loans; and
(e) Take into account the size and complexity of its loans.
§ 160.210
[Reserved]
§ 160.220
[Reserved]
Pt. 161

# PART 161—DEFINITIONS FOR REGULATIONS AFFECTING ALL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
161.1
When do the definitions in this part apply?
161.2
Account.
161.3
[Reserved]
161.4
Affiliate.
161.5
Affiliated person.
161.6
[Reserved]
161.7
Appropriate Federal banking agency.
161.8
[Reserved]
161.9
Certificate account.
161.10
Comptroller
161.12
Consumer credit.
161.14
Controlling person.
161.15
Corporation.
161.16
Demand accounts.
161.18
Director.
161.19
Financial institution.
161.24
Immediate family.
161.26-161.31
[Reserved]
161.33
Note account.
161.34
OCC.
161.35
Officer.
161.37
Parent company; subsidiary.
161.38
Political subdivision.
161.39
[Reserved]
161.40
Public unit.
161.41
[Reserved]
161.42
Savings account.
161.43
Savings association.
161.44
Security.
161.45
[Reserved]
161.50
State.
161.51
[Reserved]
161.52
Tax and loan account.
161.53
United States Treasury General Account.
161.54
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account.
161.55
With recourse.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49043, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 161.1
When do the definitions in this part apply?
The definitions in this part and in 12 CFR part 141 apply throughout parts 100-199 of this chapter, unless another definition is specifically provided.
§ 161.2
Account.
The term
account
means any savings account, demand account, certificate account, tax and loan account, note account, United States Treasury general account or United States Treasury time deposit-open account, whether in the form of a deposit or a share, held by an accountholder in a savings association.
§ 161.3
[Reserved]
§ 161.4
Affiliate.
The term
affiliate
of a savings association, unless otherwise defined, means any corporation, business trust, association, or other similar organization:
(a) Of which a savings association, directly or indirectly, owns or controls either a majority of the voting shares or more than 50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions at the preceding election, or controls in any manner the election of a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions; or
(b) Of which control is held, directly or indirectly through stock ownership or in any other manner, by the shareholders of a savings association who own or control either a majority of the shares of such savings association or more than 50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of directors of such savings association at the preceding election, or by trustees for the benefit of the shareholders of any such savings association; or
(c) Of which a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions are directors of any one savings association.
§ 161.5
Affiliated person.
The term
affiliated person
of a savings association means the following:
(a) A director, officer, or controlling person of such association;
(b) A spouse of a director, officer, or controlling person of such association;
(c) A member of the immediate family of a director, officer, or controlling person of such association, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of such association or of any holding company affiliate of such association;
(d) Any corporation or organization (other than the savings association or a corporation or organization through which the savings association operates) of which a director, officer or the controlling person of such association:
(1) Is chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or a person performing similar functions;
(2) Is a general partner;
(3) Is a limited partner who, directly or indirectly either alone or with his or her spouse and the members of his or her immediate family who are also affiliated persons of the association, owns an interest of 10 percent or more in the partnership (based on the value of his or her contribution) or who, directly or indirectly with other directors, officers, and controlling persons of such association and their spouses and their immediate family members who are also affiliated persons of the
association, owns an interest of 25 percent or more in the partnership; or
(4) Directly or indirectly either alone or with his or her spouse and the members of his or her immediate family who are also affiliated persons of the association, owns or controls 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities or owns or controls, with other directors, officers, and controlling persons of such association and their spouses and their immediate family members who are also affiliated persons of the association, 25 percent or more of any class of equity securities; and
(5) Any trust or other estate in which a director, officer, or controlling person of such association or the spouse of such person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such person or his or her spouse serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity.
§ 161.6
[Reserved]
§ 161.7
Appropriate Federal banking agency.
The term
appropriate Federal banking agency
means appropriate Federal banking agency as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).
§ 161.8
[Reserved]
§ 161.9
Certificate account.
The term
certificate account
means a savings account evidenced by a certificate that must be held for a fixed or minimum term.
§ 161.10
Comptroller.
The term
Comptroller
means the Comptroller of the Currency.
§ 161.12
Consumer credit.
The term
consumer credit
means credit extended to a natural person for personal, family, or household purposes, including loans secured by liens on real estate and chattel liens secured by mobile homes and leases of personal property to consumers that may be considered the functional equivalent of loans on personal security:
Provided,
the savings association relies substantially upon other factors, such as the general credit standing of the borrower, guaranties, or security other than the real estate or mobile home, as the primary security for the loan. Appropriate evidence to demonstrate justification for such reliance should be retained in a savings association's files. Among the types of credit included within this term are consumer loans; educational loans; unsecured loans for real property alteration, repair or improvement, or for the equipping of real property; loans in the nature of overdraft protection; and credit extended in connection with credit cards.
§ 161.14
Controlling person.
The term
controlling person
of a savings association means any person or entity which, either directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with one or more other persons or entities, owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, or holds proxies representing, ten percent or more of the voting shares or rights of such savings association; or controls in any manner the election or appointment of a majority of the directors of such savings association. However, a director of a savings association will not be deemed to be a controlling person of such savings association based upon his or her voting, or acting in concert with other directors in voting, proxies:
(a) Obtained in connection with an annual solicitation of proxies, or
(b) Obtained from savings account holders and borrowers if such proxies are voted as directed by a majority vote of the entire board of directors of such association, or of a committee of such directors if such committee's composition and authority are controlled by a majority vote of the entire board and if its authority is revocable by such a majority.
§ 161.15
Corporation.
The terms
Corporation
and
FDIC
mean the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
§ 161.16
Demand accounts.
The term
demand accounts
means non-interest-bearing demand deposits that are subject to check or to withdrawal or transfer on negotiable or transferable order to the savings association and that are permitted to be
issued by statute, regulation, or otherwise and are payable on demand.
§ 161.18
Director.
(a) The term
director
means any director, trustee, or other person performing similar functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or unincorporated. Such term does not include an advisory director, honorary director, director emeritus, or similar person, unless the person is otherwise performing functions similar to those of a director.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 161.19
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
has the same meaning as the term
depository institution
set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1).
§ 161.24
Immediate family.
The term
immediate family
of any natural person means the following (whether by the full or half blood or by adoption):
(a) Such person's spouse, father, mother, children, brothers, sisters, and grandchildren;
(b) The father, mother, brothers, and sisters of such person's spouse; and
(c) The spouse of a child, brother, or sister of such person.
§§ 161.26-161.31
[Reserved]
§ 161.33
Note account.
The term
note account
means a note, subject to the right of immediate call, evidencing funds held by depositories electing the note option under applicable United States Treasury Department regulations. Note accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 161.34
OCC.
The term
OCC
means Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
§ 161.35
Officer.
The term
Officer
means the president, any vice-president (but not an assistant vice-president, second vice-president, or other vice president having authority similar to an assistant or second vice-president), the secretary, the treasurer, the comptroller, and any other person performing similar functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or unincorporated. The term
officer
also includes the chairman of the board of directors if the chairman is authorized by the charter or by-laws of the organization to participate in its operating management or if the chairman in fact participates in such management.
§ 161.37
Parent company; subsidiary.
The term
subsidiary
means any company which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a person, and includes any service corporation owned in whole or in part by a savings association, or a subsidiary of such service corporation.
[76 FR 49043, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
§ 161.38
Political subdivision.
The term
political subdivision
includes any subdivision of a public unit, any principal department of such public unit:
(a) The creation of which subdivision or department has been expressly authorized by state statute,
(b) To which some functions of government have been delegated by state statute, and
(c) To which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control. It also includes drainage, irrigation, navigation, improvement, levee, sanitary, school or power districts and bridge or port authorities and other special districts created by state statute or compacts between the states. Excluded from the term are subordinate or nonautonomous divisions, agencies or boards within principal departments.
§ 161.39
[Reserved]
§ 161.40
Public unit.
The term
public unit
means the United States, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, any county, any municipality or any political subdivision thereof.
§ 161.41
[Reserved]
§ 161.42
Savings account.
The term
savings account
means any withdrawable account, except a demand account as defined in § 161.16 of this chapter, a tax and loan account, a note account, a United States Treasury general account, or a United States Treasury time deposit-open account.
§ 161.43
Savings association.
The term
savings association
means a savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Corporation. It includes a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank, chartered under section 5 of the Act, or a building and loan, savings and loan, or homestead association, or a cooperative bank (other than a cooperative bank which is a state bank as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) organized and operating according to the laws of the state in which it is chartered or organized, or a corporation (other than a bank as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) that the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller jointly determine to be operating substantially in the same manner as a savings association.
§ 161.44
Security.
The term
security
means any non-withdrawable account, note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting-trust certificate, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security,
or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing, except that a
security
shall not include an account or deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
§ 161.45
[Reserved]
§ 161.50
State.
The term “State” means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
[85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
§ 161.51
[Reserved]
§ 161.52
Tax and loan account.
The term
tax and loan account
means an account, the balance of which is subject to the right of immediate withdrawal, established for receipt of payments of Federal taxes and certain United States obligations. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 161.53
United States Treasury General Account.
The term
United States Treasury General Account
means an account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury the balance of which is subject to the right of immediate withdrawal, except in the case of the closure of the member, and in which a zero balance may be maintained. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 161.54
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account.
The term
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account
means a non-interest-bearing account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury which may not be withdrawn prior to the expiration of 30 days' written notice from the United States Treasury, or such other period of notice as the Treasury may require. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 161.55
With recourse.
(a) The term
with recourse
means, in connection with the sale of a loan or a participation interest in a loan, an agreement or arrangement under which the purchaser is to be entitled to receive from the seller a sum of money or
thing of value, whether tangible or intangible (including any substitution), upon default in payment of any loan involved or any part thereof or to withhold or to have withheld from the seller a sum of money or anything of value by way of security against default. The recourse liability resulting from a sale with recourse shall be the total book value of any loan sold with recourse less:
(1) The amount of any insurance or guarantee against loss in the event of default provided by a third party,
(2) The amount of any loss to be borne by the purchaser in the event of default, and
(3) The amount of any loss resulting from a recourse obligation entered on the books and records of the savings association.
(b) The term
with recourse
does not include loans or interests therein where the agreement of sale provides for the savings association directly or indirectly:
(1) To hold or retain a subordinate interest in a specified percentage of the loans or interests; or
(2) To guarantee against loss up to a specified percentage of the loans or interests, which specified percentage shall not exceed ten percent of the outstanding balance of the loans or interests at the time of sale:
Provided,
That the savings association designates adequate reserves for the subordinate interest or guarantee.
(c) This definition does not apply for purposes of determining the capital adequacy requirements under 12 CFR part 3.
[76 FR 49043, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019]
Pt. 162

# PART 162—ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURE STANDARDS

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1463, 5412(b)(2)(B).
§ 162.1
Accounting and disclosure standards.
A Federal savings association shall follow U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the disclosure standards included therein when complying with all applicable regulations, unless otherwise required by statute, regulation, or the OCC.
[82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017]
Pt. 163

# PART 163—SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS—OPERATIONS

# Subpart A—Accounts
Sec.
163.4
[Reserved]
163.5
Securities: Statement of non-insurance.

# Subpart B—Operation and Structure
163.27
Advertising.
163.33
Directors, officers, and employees.
163.36
Tying restriction exception.
163.39
[Reserved]
163.47
Pension plans.

# Subpart C—Securities and Borrowings
163.74
Mutual capital certificates.
163.76
Offers and sales of securities at an office of a Federal savings association.
163.80
Borrowing limitations.
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Financial Management Policies
163.170
Examinations and audits; appraisals; establishment and maintenance of records.
163.171
[Reserved]
163.172
Financial derivatives.
163.176
Interest-rate-risk-management procedures.

# Subpart G—Reporting and Bonding
163.180
Suspicious Activity Reports and other reports and statements.
163.200
Conflicts of interest.
163.201
Corporate opportunity.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1817, 1820, 1828, 1831o, 3806, 5101
et seq.,
5412(b)(2)(B); 31 U.S.C. 5318; 42 U.S.C. 4106.

# Source:
76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Accounts
§ 163.4
[Reserved]
§ 163.5
Securities: Statement of non-insurance.
Every security issued by a Federal savings association must include in its provisions a clear statement that the
security is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

# Subpart B—Operation and Structure
§ 163.27
Advertising.
No Federal savings association shall use advertising (which includes print or broadcast media, displays or signs, stationery, and all other promotional materials), or make any representation which is inaccurate in any particular or which in any way misrepresents its services, contracts, investments, or financial condition.
§ 163.33
Directors, officers, and employees.
(a)
Directors
—(1)
Requirements.
The composition of the board of directors of a Federal savings association must be in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) A majority of the directors must not be salaried officers or employees of the savings association or of any subsidiary thereof.
(ii) Not more than two of the directors may be members of the same immediate family.
(iii) Not more than one director may be an attorney with a particular law firm.
(2)
Prospective application.
In the case of an association whose board of directors does not conform with any requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as of October 5, 1983, this paragraph (a) shall not prohibit the uninterrupted service, including re-election and re-appointment, of any person serving on the board of directors at that date.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 163.36
Tying restriction exception.
For applicable rules, see regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
§ 163.39
[Reserved]
§ 163.47
Pension plans.
(a)
General.
No Federal savings association or service corporation thereof shall sponsor an employee pension plan which, because of unreasonable costs or any other reason, could lead to material financial loss or damage to the sponsor. For purposes of this section, an employee pension plan is defined in section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The prospective obligation or liability of a plan sponsor to each plan participant shall be stated in or determinable from the plan, and, for a defined benefit plan, shall also be based upon an actuarial estimate of future experience under the plan.
(b)
Funding.
Actuarial cost methods permitted under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, shall be used to determine plan funding.
(c)
Plan amendment.
A plan may be amended to provide reasonable annual cost-of-living increases to retired participants:
Provided,
That
(1) Any such increase shall be for a period and amount determined by the sponsor's board of directors, but in no event shall it exceed the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and
(2) No increase shall be granted unless:
(i) Anticipated charges to net income for future periods have first been found by such board of directors to be reasonable and are documented by appropriate resolution and supporting analysis; and
(ii) The increase will not reduce the association's regulatory capital below its regulatory capital requirement.
(d)
Termination.
The plan shall permit the sponsor's board of directors and its successors to terminate such plan. Notice of intent to terminate shall be filed with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) at least 60 days prior to the proposed termination date.
(e)
Records.
Each Federal savings association or service corporation maintaining a plan not subject to recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, shall establish and maintain records containing the following:
(1) Plan description;
(2) Schedule of participants and beneficiaries;
(3) Schedule of participants and beneficiaries' rights and obligations;
(4) Plan's financial statements; and
(5) Except for defined contribution plans, an opinion signed by an enrolled actuary (as defined by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) affirming that actuarial assumptions in the aggregate are reasonable, take into account the plan's experience and expectations, and represent the actuary's best estimate of the plan's projected experiences.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]

# Subpart C—Securities and Borrowings
§ 163.74
Mutual capital certificates.
(a)
General.
No savings association that is in the mutual form shall issue mutual capital certificates pursuant to this section or amend the terms of such certificates unless it has obtained written approval of the appropriate Federal banking agency. No approval shall be granted unless the proposed issuance of the mutual capital certificates and the form and manner of filing of the application are in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Eligibility Requirements.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will consider and process an application for approval of the issuance of mutual capital certificates pursuant to this section only if the issuance is authorized by applicable law and regulation and is not inconsistent with any provision of the applicant's charter, constitution or bylaws.
(c)
Application form; supporting information.
An application for approval of the issuance of mutual capital certificates pursuant to this section shall be in the form prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency. Such application and instructions may be obtained from the appropriate Federal banking agency. Information and exhibits shall be furnished in support of the application in accordance with such instructions, setting forth all of the terms and provisions relating to the proposed issue and showing that all of the requirements of this section have been or will be met.
(d)
Charter amendment.
No application for approval of the issuance of mutual capital certificates pursuant to this section may be filed unless the amendment to the mutual association's charter, constitution or bylaws or other actions conferring such authority shall have been approved pursuant to the procedures and requirements set forth in the mutual association's charter, constitution or bylaws, or as may otherwise be required by applicable law.
(e)
Filing requirements.
The application for issuance of mutual capital certificates shall be publicly filed with the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(f)
Supervisory objection.
No application or approval of the issuance of mutual capital certificates pursuant to this section shall be approved if, in the opinion of the appropriate Federal banking agency, the policies, condition, or operation of the applicant afford a basis for supervisory objection to the application.
(g)
Limitation on offering period.
Following the date of the approval of the application by the appropriate Federal banking agency, the association shall have an offering period of not more than one year in which to complete the sale of the mutual capital certificates issued pursuant to this section. The appropriate Federal banking agency may in its discretion extend such offering period if a written request showing good cause for such extension is filed with it not later than 30 days before the expiration of such offering period or any extension thereof.
(h)
Reports.
Within 30 days after completion of the sale of mutual capital certificates issued pursuant to this section, the association shall transmit to the appropriate Federal banking agency a written report stating the total dollar amount of securities sold, and the amount of net proceeds received by the association, and within 90 days it shall transmit a written report stating the number of purchasers.
(i)
Requirements as to mutual capital certificates
—(1)
Form of certificate.
Each mutual capital certificate and any governing agreement evidencing a mutual capital certificate issued by an association pursuant to this section:
(i) Shall bear on its face, in bold-face type, the following legend: “This security is not a savings account or a deposit and it is not insured by the United States or any agency or fund of the United States”; and
(ii) Shall clearly state that the certificate is subject to the requirements of § 163.74(i)(2).
(2)
Legal requirements.
Mutual capital certificates issued pursuant to this section shall:
(i) Be subordinate to all claims against the association having the same priority as savings accounts, savings certificates, debt obligations or any higher priority;
(ii) Not be eligible for use as collateral for any loan made by the issuing association;
(iii) Constitute a claim in liquidation not exceeding the face value plus accrued dividends of the certificates, on the general reserves, surplus and undivided profits of the association remaining after the payment in full of all savings accounts, savings certificates and debt obligations;
(iv) Be entitled to the payment of dividends, which may be fixed, variable, participating, or cumulative, or any combination thereof, only if, when and as declared by the association's board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose, provided that no dividend may be declared or paid without the approval of the appropriate Federal banking agency if such payment would cause the association to fail to meet its regulatory capital requirements under 12 CFR part 3 if a Federal savings association, or 12 CFR part 324 or part 390, subpart Z, as applicable, if a state savings association, and provided further that no dividend may be paid if such payment would constitute a violation of 12 U.S.C. 1828(b);
(v) Not be redeemable, except: where the dollar weighted average term of each issue of mutual capital certificates to be redeemed is seven years or more and redemption is to be made pursuant to a redemption schedule; in the event of a merger, consolidation or reorganization approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency; or where the funds for redemption are raised by the issuance of mutual capital certificates approved pursuant to this section, or in conjunction with the issuance of capital stock pursuant to part 192 of this chapter:
Provided,
that mandatory redemption shall not be required; that mutual capital certificates shall not be redeemable on the demand or at the option of the holder; and that mutual capital certificates shall not receive, benefit from, be credited with or otherwise be entitled to or due payments in or for redemption if such payments would cause the association to fail to meet its regulatory capital requirements under 12 CFR part 3 if a Federal savings association, or 12 CFR part 324 or part 390, subpart Z, as applicable, if a state savings association;
And Provided further,
for the purposes of this paragraph (i)(2)(v), the “dollar weighted average term” of an issue of mutual capital certificates shall be the sum of the products calculated for each year that the mutual capital certificates in the issue have been redeemed or are scheduled to be redeemed. Each product shall be calculated by multiplying the number of years of each mutual capital certificate of a given term by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the total dollar amount of each mutual capital certificate in the issue with the same term and the denominator of which shall be the total dollar amount of mutual capital certificates in the entire issue;
(vi) Not have preemptive rights;
(vii) Not have voting rights, except that an association may provide for voting rights if:
(A) The savings association fails to pay dividends for a minimum of three consecutive dividend periods, and then the holders of the class or classes of mutual capital certificates granted such voting rights, and voting as a single class, with one vote for each outstanding certificate, may elect by a majority vote a maximum of one-third of the association's board of directors, the directors so elected to serve until the next annual meeting of the association succeeding the payment of all current and past dividends;
(B) Any merger, consolidation, or reorganization (except in a supervisory case) is sought to be authorized, where the issuing association is not the survivor, provided that the regulatory
capital of the resulting association available for payment of any class of mutual capital certificate on liquidation is less than the regulatory capital available for such class prior to the merger, consolidation, or reorganization;
(C) Action is sought to be authorized which would create any class of mutual capital certificates having a preference or priority over an outstanding class or classes of mutual capital certificates;
(D) Any action is sought to be authorized which would adversely change the specific terms of any class of mutual capital certificates;
(E) Action is sought to be authorized which would increase the number of a class of mutual capital certificates, or the number of a class of mutual capital certificates ranking prior to or on parity with another class of mutual capital certificates; or
(F) Action is sought which would authorize the issuance of an additional class or classes of mutual capital certificates without the association having met specific financial standards;
(viii) Not constitute an obligation of the association and shall confer no rights which would give rise to any claim of or action for default;
(ix) Not be convertible into any account, security, or interest, except that mutual capital certificates may be surrendered in exchange for preferred stock issued in connection with the conversion of the issuing savings association to the stock form pursuant to part 192 of this chapter, provided that the preferred stock shall have substantially the same voting rights, designations, preferences and relative, participating optional, or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations, and restrictions, as the mutual capital certificates exchanged for the preferred stock.
(x) Provide for charging of losses after the exhaustion of all other items in the regulatory capital account.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 11314, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 163.76
Offers and sales of securities at an office of a Federal savings association.
(a) A Federal saving association may not offer or sell debt or equity securities issued by the association or an affiliate of the association at an office of the association; except that equity securities issued by the association or an affiliate in connection with the association's conversion from the mutual to stock form of organization in a conversion approved pursuant to part 192 of this chapter may be offered and sold at the association's offices:
Provided,
That:
(1) The OCC does not object on supervisory grounds to the offer and sale of the securities at the offices of the association;
(2) No commissions, bonuses, or comparable payments are paid to any employee of the savings association or its affiliates or to any other person in connection with the sale of securities at an office of a savings association; except that compensation and commissions consistent with industry norms may be paid to securities personnel of registered broker-dealers;
(3) No offers or sales are made by tellers or at the teller counter, or by comparable persons at comparable locations;
(4) Sales activity is conducted in a segregated or separately identifiable area of the savings association's offices apart from the area accessible to the general public for the purposes of making or withdrawing deposits;
(5) Offers and sales are made only by regular, full-time employees of the savings association or by securities personnel who are subject to supervision by a registered broker-dealer;
(6) An acknowledgment, in the form set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, is signed by any customer to whom the security is sold in the savings association's offices prior to the sale of any such securities;
(7) A legend that the security is not a deposit or account and is not Federally insured or guaranteed appears conspicuously on the security and in all offering documents and advertisements for the securities; the legend must state in bold or other prominent type at least as large as other textual type
in the document that “This security is not a deposit or account and is not Federally insured or guaranteed”; and
(8) The savings association will be in compliance with its current capital requirements upon completion of the conversion stock offering.
(b) Securities sales practices, advertisements, and other sales literature used in connection with offers and sales of securities by Federal savings associations shall be subject to § 16.32 of this chapter.
(c) Offers and sales of securities of a savings association or its affiliates in any office of the savings association must use a one-page, unambiguous, certification in substantially the following form:

# FORM OF CERTIFICATION
I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS SECURITY IS NOT A DEPOSIT OR ACCOUNT AND IS NOT FEDERALLY INSURED, AND IS NOT GUARANTEED BY [
insert name of savings association
] OR BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
If anyone asserts that this security is Federally insured or guaranteed, or is as safe as an insured deposit, I should call the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
I further certify that, before purchasing the [
description of security being offered
] of [
name of issuer, name of savings association and affiliation to issuer (if different)
], I received an offering circular.
The offering circular that I received contains disclosure concerning the nature of the security being offered and describes the risks involved in the investment, including:
[
List briefly the principal risks involved and cross reference certain specified pages of the offering circular where a more complete description of the risks is made.
]
Signature:
Date:
(d) For purposes of this section, an “office” of an association means any premises used by the association that are identified to the public through advertising or signage using the association's name, trade name, or logo.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
§ 163.80
Borrowing limitations.
(a)
General.
Except as the appropriate Federal banking agency otherwise may permit by advice in writing, a savings association may borrow only in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Amount of borrowing.
A savings association may borrow up to the amount authorized by the laws under which the savings association operates.
(c)
Security.
An association may give security for borrowings subject to any requirements imposed by the appropriate Federal banking agency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) regarding notice of default on borrowings and any FDIC right of first refusal to purchase collateral.
(d)
Required statement for all securities evidencing outside borrowings.
Each security shall bear on its face, in a prominent place, the following legend:
This security is not a savings account or a deposit and it is not insured by the United States or any agency or fund of the United States.
(e)
Filing requirements for outside borrowings with maturities in excess of one year.
(1) Unless the savings association meets its capital requirement under 12 CFR part 3 if a Federal savings association or 12 CFR part 324 or part 390, subpart Z, as applicable, if a state savings association it shall, at least ten business days prior to issuance, file a notice of intent to issue securities evidencing such borrowings with the appropriate OCC licensing office if a Federal savings association, or with the appropriate regional director of the FDIC if a state savings association. Such notice shall contain a summary of the items of the security, including:
(i) Principal amount of the securities;
(ii) Anticipated interest rate range and price range at which the securities are to be sold;
(iii) Minimum denomination;
(iv) Stated and average effective maturity;
(v) Mandatory and optional prepayment provisions;
(vi) Description, amount, and maintenance of collateral if any;
(vii) Trustee provisions if any;
(viii) Events of default and remedies of default;
(ix) Any provisions which restrict, conditionally or otherwise, the operations of the association.
(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency shall have 10 business days
after receipt of such filing to object to the issuance of such securities. The appropriate Federal banking agency shall object if the terms or covenants of the proposed issue place unreasonable burdens on, or control over, the operations of the association. If no objection is taken, the savings association shall have 120 calendar days within which to issue such securities.
(f)
Note accounts.
For purposes of this section, note accounts are not borrowings.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 11314, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019; 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020]
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Financial Management Policies
§ 163.170
Examinations and audits; appraisals; establishment and maintenance of records.
(a)
Examinations and audits.
Each Federal savings association and affiliate thereof shall be examined periodically, and may be examined at any time, by the OCC, with appraisals when deemed advisable, in accordance with general policies from time to time established by the OCC. The costs, as computed by the OCC, of any examinations made by it, including office analysis, overhead, per diem, travel expense, other supervision by the OCC, and other indirect costs, shall be paid by the savings associations examined, except that in the case of service corporations of Federal savings associations the cost of examinations, as determined by the OCC, shall be paid by the service corporations. Payments shall be made in accordance with a schedule of annual assessments based upon each savings association's total assets and of rates for examiner time in amounts determined by the OCC.
(b)
Appraisals.
(1) Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, appraisal of real estate by the OCC in connection with any examination or audit of a savings association, affiliate, or service corporation shall be made by an appraiser, or by appraisers, selected by the OCC. The cost of such appraisal shall promptly be paid by such savings association, affiliate, or service corporation direct to such appraiser or appraisers upon receipt by the savings association, affiliate, or service corporation of a statement of such cost as approved by the OCC. A copy of the report of each appraisal made by the OCC pursuant to any of the foregoing provisions of this section shall be furnished to the savings association, affiliate, or service corporation, as appropriate within a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, following the completion of such appraisals and the filing of a report thereof by the appraiser, or appraisers, with the OCC.
(2) The OCC may obtain at any time, at its expense, such appraisals of any of the assets, including the security therefore, of a savings association, affiliate, or service corporation as the OCC deems appropriate.
(c)
Establishment and maintenance of records.
To enable the OCC to examine Federal savings associations and affiliates and audit savings associations, affiliates, and service corporations pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, each savings association, affiliate, and service corporation shall establish and maintain such accounting and other records as will provide an accurate and complete record of all business it transacts. This includes, without limitation, establishing and maintaining such other records as are required by statute or any other regulation to which the savings association, affiliate, or service corporation is subject. The documents, files, and other material or property comprising said records shall at all times be available for such examination and audit wherever any of said records, documents, files, material, or property may be.
(d)
Change in location of records.
A Federal savings association shall not transfer the location of any of its general accounting or control records, or the maintenance thereof, from its home office to a branch or service office, or from a branch or service office to its home office or to another branch or service office unless prior to the date of transfer its board of directors has:
(1) By resolution authorized the transfer or maintenance; and
(2) Sent a certified copy of the resolution to the OCC.
(e)
Use of data processing services for maintenance of records.
A Federal savings association which determines to maintain any of its records by means of data processing services shall so notify the OCC in writing, at least 90 days prior to the date on which such maintenance of records will begin. Such notification shall include identification of the records to be maintained by data processing services and a statement as to the location at which such records will be maintained. Any contract, agreement, or arrangement made by a savings association pursuant to which data processing services are to be performed for such savings association shall be in writing and shall expressly provide that the records to be maintained by such services shall at all times be available for examination and audit.
§ 163.171
[Reserved]
§ 163.172
Financial derivatives.
(a)
Definition.
A financial derivative is a financial contract whose value depends on the value of one or more underlying assets, indices, or reference rates. The most common types of financial derivatives are futures, forward contracts, options, and swaps. A mortgage derivative security, such as a collateralized mortgage obligation or a real estate mortgage investment conduit, is not a financial derivative under this section.
(b)
Permissible financial derivatives transactions.
A Federal savings association may engage in a transaction involving a financial derivative if the savings association is authorized to invest in the assets underlying the financial derivative, the transaction is safe and sound, and the requirements in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section are met. In general, a Federal savings association that engages in a transaction involving a financial derivative should do so to reduce its risk exposure.
(c)
Board of directors' responsibilities.
(1) A Federal savings association's board of directors is responsible for effective oversight of financial derivatives activities.
(2) Before a savings association may engage in any transaction involving a financial derivative, your board of directors must establish written policies and procedures governing authorized financial derivatives. The board of directors should review applicable guidance issued by the OCC on establishing a sound risk management program.
(3) The board of directors must periodically review:
(i) Compliance with the policies and procedures established under paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The adequacy of these policies and procedures to ensure that they continue to be appropriate to the nature and scope of the savings association's operations and existing market conditions.
(4) The board of directors must ensure that management establishes an adequate system of internal controls for transactions involving financial derivatives.
(d)
Management responsibilities.
(1) The management of a Federal savings association is responsible for daily oversight and management of financial derivatives activities. The management of a Federal savings association must implement the policies and procedures established by the board of directors and must establish a system of internal controls. This system of internal controls should, at a minimum, provide for periodic reporting to the board of directors and management, segregation of duties, and internal review procedures.
(2) Management must ensure that financial derivatives activities are conducted in a safe and sound manner and should review applicable guidance issued by the OCC on implementing a sound risk management program.
(e)
Recordkeeping requirement.
A Federal savings association must maintain records adequate to demonstrate compliance with this section and with its board of directors' policies and procedures on financial derivatives.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 8110, Jan. 23, 2017]
§ 163.176
Interest-rate-risk-management procedures.
Federal savings associations shall take the following actions:
(a) The board of directors or a committee thereof shall review the savings association's interest-rate-risk exposure and devise a policy for the savings association's management of that risk.
(b) The board of directors shall formally adopt a policy for the management of interest-rate risk. The management of the savings association shall establish guidelines and procedures to ensure that the board's policy is successfully implemented.
(c) The management of the savings association shall periodically report to the board of directors regarding implementation of the savings association's policy for interest-rate-risk management and shall make that information available upon request to the OCC.
(d) The savings association's board of directors shall review the results of operations at least quarterly and shall make such adjustments as it considers necessary and appropriate to the policy for interest-rate-risk management, including adjustments to the authorized acceptable level of interest-rate risk.

# Subpart G—Reporting and Bonding
§ 163.180
Suspicious Activity Reports and other reports and statements.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
False or misleading statements or omissions.
No savings association or director, officer, agent, employee, affiliated person, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of such association nor any person filing or seeking approval of any application shall knowingly:
(1) Make any written or oral statement to the appropriate Federal banking agency or to an agent, representative or employee of the appropriate Federal banking agency that is false or misleading with respect to any material fact or omits to state a material fact concerning any matter within the jurisdiction of the appropriate Federal banking agency or
(2) Make any such statement or omission to a person or organization auditing a savings association or otherwise preparing or reviewing its financial statements concerning the accounts, assets, management condition, ownership, safety, or soundness, or other affairs of the association.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Suspicious Activity Reports
—(1)
Purpose and scope.
This paragraph (d) ensures that savings associations and service corporations file a Suspicious Activity Report when they detect a known or suspected violation of Federal law or a suspicious transaction related to a money laundering activity or a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act.
(2)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this paragraph (d):
(i)
FinCEN
means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury.
(ii)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in sections 3(u) and 8(b)(9) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(u) and 1818(b)(9)).
(iii)
SAR
means a Suspicious Activity Report.
(3)
SARs required.
A savings association or service corporation shall file a SAR with the appropriate Federal law enforcement agencies and the Department of the Treasury on the form prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency and in accordance with the form's instructions, by sending a completed SAR to FinCEN in the following circumstances:
(i)
Insider abuse involving any amount.
Whenever the savings association or service corporation detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the savings association or service corporation or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the savings association or service corporation, where the savings association or service corporation believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that it was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and it has a substantial basis for identifying one of its directors, officers, employees, agents or other institution-affiliated parties as having committed or aided in the commission of a criminal act, regardless of the amount involved in the violation.
(ii)
Violations aggregating $5,000 or more where a suspect can be identified.
Whenever the savings association or service corporation detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the savings association or service corporation or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the savings association or service corporation and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds or other assets, where the savings association or service corporation believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation or series of criminal violations, or that it was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and it has a substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects. If it is determined prior to filing this report that the identified suspect or group of suspects has used an alias, then information regarding the true identity of the suspect or group of suspects, as well as alias identifiers, such as drivers' license or social security numbers, addresses and telephone numbers, must be reported.
(iii)
Violations aggregating $25,000 or more regardless of potential suspects.
Whenever the savings association or service corporation detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the savings association or service corporation or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the savings association or service corporation and involving or aggregating $25,000 or more in funds or other assets, where the savings association or service corporation believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation or series of criminal violations, or that it was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, even though there is no substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects.
(iv)
Transactions aggregating $5,000 or more that involve potential money laundering or violations of the Bank Secrecy Act.
Any transaction (which for purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(iv) means a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument or investment security, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected) conducted or attempted by, at or through the savings association or service corporation and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds or other assets, if the savings association or service corporation knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that:
(A) The transaction involves funds derived from illegal activities or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activities (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law;
(B) The transaction is designed to evade any regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(C) The transaction has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the institution knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(4)
Service corporations.
When a service corporation is required to file a SAR under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, either the service corporation or a savings association that wholly or partially owns the service corporation may file the SAR.
(5)
Time for reporting.
A savings association or service corporation is required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of initial detection of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. If no suspect was identified on the date of detection of the incident requiring the filing, a savings association or service corporation may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect. In no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of initial detection of a reportable transaction. In situations
involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation is ongoing, the savings association or service corporation shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and the appropriate Federal banking agency in addition to filing a timely SAR.
(6)
Reports to state and local authorities.
A savings association or service corporation is encouraged to file a copy of the SAR with state and local law enforcement agencies where appropriate.
(7)
Exception.
A savings association or service corporation need not file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities.
(8)
Retention of records.
A savings association or service corporation shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of the filing of the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified and maintained by the savings association or service corporation as such, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A savings association or service corporation shall make all supporting documentation available to appropriate law enforcement agencies upon request. A savings association or service corporation shall make all supporting documentation available to the appropriate Federal banking agency, FinCEN, or any Federal, state, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the savings association or service corporation for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any state regulatory authority administering a state law that requires the savings association or service corporation to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the state authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(9)
Notification to board of directors
—(i)
Generally.
Whenever a savings association (or a service corporation in which the savings association has an ownership interest) files a SAR pursuant to this paragraph (d), the management of the savings association or service corporation shall promptly notify its board of directors, or a committee of directors or executive officers designated by the board of directors to receive notice.
(ii)
Suspect is a director or executive officer.
If the savings association or service corporation files a SAR pursuant to this paragraph (d) and the suspect is a director or executive officer, the savings association or service corporation may not notify the suspect, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2), but shall notify all directors who are not suspects.
(10)
Compliance.
Failure to file a SAR in accordance with this section and the instructions may subject the savings association or service corporation, its directors, officers, employees, agents, or other institution-affiliated parties to supervisory action.
(11)
Obtaining SARs.
A savings association or service corporation may obtain SARs and the instructions from the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(12)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential, and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d)(12).
(i)
Prohibition on disclosure by savings associations or service corporations.
No savings association or service corporation, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of a savings association or service corporation, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any savings association or service corporation, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any savings association or service corporation that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify the following of any such request and the response thereto:
(A) Director, Litigation Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the appropriate FDIC region, as appropriate and
(B) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported
suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a savings association or service corporation, or any director, officer, employee or agent of a savings association or service corporation of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or the appropriate Federal banking agency or any Federal, state, or local law enforcement agency; or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the savings association or service corporation for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any state regulatory authority administering a state law that requires compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the state authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including, but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a savings association or service corporation, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a savings association or service corporation, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the corporate organizational structure of the savings association or service corporation, for purposes consistent with title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(iii)
Prohibition on disclosure by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will not, and no officer, employee or agent of appropriate Federal banking agency shall disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for use in a private legal proceeding or in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information under 12 CFR 4.33 or 12 CFR part 309, as appropriate.
(iv)
Limitation on liability.
A savings association or service corporation and any director, officer, employee or agent of a savings association or service corporation that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(13)
Safe harbor.
The safe harbor provision of 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), which exempts any financial institution that makes a disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation from liability under any law or regulation of the United States, or any constitution, law or regulation of any state or political subdivision, covers all reports of suspected or known criminal violations and suspicious activities to law enforcement and financial institution supervisory authorities, including supporting documentation, regardless of whether such reports are filed pursuant to this paragraph (d), or are filed on a voluntary basis.
(e)
Adjustable-rate mortgage indices
—(1)
Reporting obligation.
Upon the request of a Federal Home Loan Bank, all savings associations within the jurisdiction of that Federal Home Loan Bank shall report the data items set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section for the Federal Home Loan Bank to use in calculating and publishing an adjustable-rate mortgage index.
(2)
Data to be reported.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the term “data items” means the data items previously collected from the monthly Thrift Financial Report or Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income, as appropriate, and such data
items as may be altered, amended, or substituted by the requesting Federal Home Loan Bank.
(3)
Applicable indices.
For the purpose of this reporting requirement, the term “adjustable-rate mortgage index” means any of the adjustable-rate mortgage indices calculated and published by a Federal Home Loan Bank or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board on or before August 9, 1989.
(f)
Exemptions.
(1) The OCC may grant a Federal savings association or service corporation an exemption from the requirements of this section. A Federal savings association or service corporation requesting an exemption must submit a request in writing to the OCC. In reviewing such requests, the OCC will consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act (if applicable) and safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. Any exemption will apply only as expressly stated in the exemption. (A Federal savings association or service corporation requesting an exemption that also requires relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X must submit a request in writing to both the OCC and FinCEN for approval.)
(2) The OCC will respond in writing to the Federal savings association or service corporation that submits a request pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section after considering whether the exemption is consistent with the factors in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Any exemption granted by the OCC under paragraph (f)(1) of this section will continue for the time specified by the OCC.
(3) The OCC may extend the period of time or may revoke an exemption granted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Exemptions or extensions may be revoked in the sole discretion of the OCC. Before revoking an exemption, the OCC will provide written notice to the Federal savings association or service corporation of the OCC's intention to revoke an exemption. Such notice will include the basis for the revocation and will provide an opportunity for the Federal savings association or service corporation to submit a response to the OCC. The OCC will consider any response before deciding whether or not to revoke an exemption and provide written notice to the Federal savings association or service corporation of the OCC's final decision to revoke an exemption.
(4) With respect to requests for exemptions that will also require relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X, upon receiving approval from both the OCC and FinCEN, the requestor will be relieved of its obligations under this section to the extent stated in such approvals.
[76 FR 49047, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 8111, Jan. 23, 2017; 85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020; 87 FR 15332, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 163.200
Conflicts of interest.
If you are a director, officer, or employee of a Federal savings association, or have the power to direct its management or policies, or otherwise owe a fiduciary duty to a Federal savings association:
(a) You must not advance your own personal or business interests, or those of others with whom you have a personal or business relationship, at the expense of the savings association; and
(b) You must, if you have an interest in a matter or transaction before the board of directors:
(1) Disclose to the board all material nonprivileged information relevant to the board's decision on the matter or transaction, including:
(i) The existence, nature and extent of your interests; and
(ii) The facts known to you as to the matter or transaction under consideration;
(2) Refrain from participating in the board's discussion of the matter or transaction; and
(3) Recuse yourself from voting on the matter or transaction (if you are a director).
§ 163.201
Corporate opportunity.
(a) If you are a director or officer of a Federal savings association, or have the power to direct its management or policies, or otherwise owe a fiduciary duty to a Federal savings association,
you must not take advantage of corporate opportunities belonging to the savings association.
(b) A corporate opportunity belongs to a Federal savings association if:
(1) The opportunity is within the corporate powers of the savings association or a subsidiary of the savings association; and
(2) The opportunity is of present or potential practical advantage to the savings association, either directly or through its subsidiary.
(c) The OCC will not deem you to have taken advantage of a corporate opportunity belonging to the Federal savings association if a disinterested and independent majority of the savings association's board of directors, after receiving a full and fair presentation of the matter, rejected the opportunity as a matter of sound business judgment.
PARTS 165-166 [RESERVED]
Pt. 168

# PART 168—SECURITY PROCEDURES
Sec.
168.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
168.2
Designation of security officer.
168.3
Security program.
168.4
Report.
168.5
Protection of customer information.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1828, 1831p-1, 1881-1884, 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 1681s and 1681w; 15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805(b)(1).

# Source:
76 FR 49129, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 168.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a) This part is issued under section 3 of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C 1882), sections 501 and 505(b)(1) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805(b)(1)), and sections 621 and 628 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s and 1681w). This part is applicable to Federal savings associations. It requires each Federal savings association to adopt appropriate security procedures to discourage robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in the identification and prosecution of persons who commit such acts. Section 168.5 of this part is applicable to Federal savings associations and their subsidiaries (except brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers). Section 168.5 of this part requires covered institutions to establish and implement appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of customer information.
(b) It is the responsibility of a Federal savings association's board of directors to comply with this regulation and ensure that a written security program for the association's main office and branches is developed and implemented.
§ 168.2
Designation of security officer.
Within 30 days after the effective date of insurance of accounts, the board of directors of each Federal savings association shall designate a security officer who shall have the authority, subject to the approval of the board of directors, to develop, within a reasonable time but no later than 180 days, and to administer a written security program for each of the association's offices.
§ 168.3
Security program.
(a)
Contents of security program.
The security program shall:
(1) Establish procedures for opening and closing for business and for the safekeeping of all currency, negotiable securities, and similar valuables at all times;
(2) Establish procedures that will assist in identifying persons committing crimes against the association and that will preserve evidence that may aid in their identification and prosecution. Such procedures may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Maintaining a camera that records activity in the office;
(ii) Using identification devices, such as prerecorded serial-numbered bills, or chemical and electronic devices; and
(iii) Retaining a record of any robbery, burglary, or larceny committed against the association;
(3) Provide for initial and periodic training of officers and employees in their responsibilities under the security program and in proper employee conduct during and after a burglary, robbery, or larceny; and
(4) Provide for selecting, testing, operating and maintaining appropriate
security devices, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Security devices.
Each savings association shall have, at a minimum, the following security devices:
(1) A means of protecting cash and other liquid assets, such as a vault, safe, or other secure space;
(2) A lighting system for illuminating, during the hours of darkness, the area around the vault, if the vault is visible from outside the office;
(3) Tamper-resistant locks on exterior doors and exterior windows that may be opened;
(4) An alarm system or other appropriate device for promptly notifying the nearest responsible law enforcement officers of an attempted or perpetrated robbery or burglary; and
(5) Such other devices as the security officer determines to be appropriate, taking into consideration:
(i) The incidence of crimes against financial institutions in the area;
(ii) The amount of currency and other valuables exposed to robbery, burglary, or larceny;
(iii) The distance of the office from the nearest responsible law enforcement officers;
(iv) The cost of the security devices;
(v) Other security measures in effect at the office; and
(vi) The physical characteristics of the structure of the office and its surroundings.
§ 168.4
Report.
The security officer for each Federal savings association shall report at least annually to the association's board of directors on the implementation, administration, and effectiveness of the security program.
§ 168.5
Protection of customer information.
Federal savings associations and their subsidiaries (except brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers) must comply with the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards set forth in appendix B to part 30 of this chapter. Supplement A to appendix B to part 30 of this chapter provides interpretive guidance.
[76 FR 49129, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 54549, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 169

# PART 169—PROXIES
Sec.
169.1
Definitions.
169.2
Form of proxies.
169.3
Holders of proxies.
169.4
Proxy soliciting material.

# Authority:
Section 2, 48 Stat. 128, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1462); section 3, as added by section 301, 103 Stat. 278 (12 U.S.C. 1462a); section 4, as added by section 301, 103 Stat. 280 (12 U.S.C. 1463), 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49129, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 169.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Security holder.
(1) The term
security holder
means any person having the right to vote in the affairs of a savings association by virtue of:
(i) Ownership of any security of the association or
(ii) Any indebtedness to the association.
(2) For purposes of this part, the term
security holder
shall include any account holder having the right to vote in the affairs of a mutual savings association.
(b)
Person.
The term
person
includes, in addition to natural persons, corporations, partnerships, pension funds, profit-sharing funds, trusts, and any other group of associated persons of whatever nature.
(c)
Proxy.
The term
proxy
includes every form of authorization by which a person is, or may be deemed to be, designated to act for the security holder in the exercise of his or her voting rights in the affairs of a savings association. Such an authorization may take the form of failure to dissent or object.
(d)
Solicit; solicitation.
(1) The terms
solicit
and
solicitation
refer to:
(i) Any request for a proxy whether or not accompanied by or included in a form of proxy;
(ii) Any request to execute, not execute, or revoke a proxy; or
(iii) The furnishing of a form of proxy or other communication to security
holders under circumstances reasonably calculated to result in the procurement, withholding, or revocation of a proxy.
(2) The terms do not apply, however, to the furnishing of a form of proxy to a security holder upon the request of such security holder or to the performance by any person of ministerial acts on behalf of a person soliciting a proxy.
§ 169.2
Form of proxies.
Every form of proxy shall conform to the following requirements:
(a) The proxy shall be revocable at will by the person giving it. The power to revoke may not be conditioned on any event or occurrence or be otherwise limited; except that, in the case of a proxy relating to capital stock if such proxy is coupled with an interest, states such fact on its face, and is valid under the laws of the state in which it is to be exercised, such proxy may be made irrevocable to the extent permitted by such state law.
(b) The proxy may not be part of any other document or instrument (such as an account card).
(c) The proxy shall be clearly labeled “Revocable Proxy” in boldface type (at least as large as 18 point).
§ 169.3
Holders of proxies.
No proxy of a mutual savings association with a term greater than eleven months or solicited at the expense of the association may designate as holder anyone other than the board of directors [trustees] as a whole, or a committee appointed by a majority of such board.
§ 169.4
Proxy soliciting material.
No solicitation of a proxy shall be made by means of any statement, form of proxy, notice of meeting, or other communication, written or oral, which:
(a) Solicits any undated or postdated proxy;
(b) Solicits any proxy that provides that it shall be deemed to be dated as of any date subsequent to the date on which it is signed by the security holder; or
(c)(1) Contains any statement that is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or
(2) Omits to state any material fact:
(i) Necessary in order to make the statements therein not false or misleading or
(ii) Necessary to correct any statement in any earlier communication with respect to the solicitation of a proxy for the same meeting or subject matter that has subsequently become false or misleading.
PARTS 170-189 [RESERVED]
Pt. 190

# PART 190—PREEMPTION OF STATE USURY LAWS
Sec.
190.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
190.2
Definitions.
190.3
Operation.
190.4
Federally-related residential manufactured housing loans—consumer protection provisions.
190.100
Status of Interpretations issued under Public Law 96-161.
190.101
State criminal usury statutes.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1735f-7a, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49151, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 190.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part contains regulations issued under section 501 of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, Public Law 96-221, 94 Stat. 161.
(b)
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this permanent preemption of state interest-rate ceilings applicable to Federally-related residential mortgage loans is to ensure that the availability of such loans is not impeded in states having restrictive interest limitations. This part applies to loans, mortgages, credit sales, and advances, secured by first liens on residential real property, stock in residential cooperative housing corporations, or residential manufactured homes as defined in § 190.2 of this part.
§ 190.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Loans
mean any loans, mortgages, credit sales, or advances.
(b)
Federally-related loans
include any loan:
(1) Made by any lender whose deposits or accounts are insured by any agency of the Federal government;
(2) Made by any lender regulated by any agency of the Federal government;
(3) Made by any lender approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for participation in any mortgage insurance program under the National Housing Act;
(4) Made in whole or in part by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; insured, guaranteed, supplemented, or assisted in any way by the Secretary or any officer or agency of the Federal government, or made under or in connection with a housing or urban development program administered by the Secretary, or a housing or related program administered by any other such officer or agency;
(5) Eligible for purchase by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Government National Mortgage Association, or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or made by any financial institution from which the loan could be purchased by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; or
(6) Made in whole or in part by any entity which:
(i) Regularly extends, or arranges for the extension of, credit payable by agreement in more than four installments or for which the payment of a finance charge is or may be required; and
(ii) Makes or invests in residential real property loans, including loans secured by first liens on residential manufactured homes that aggregate more than $1,000,000 per year; except that the latter requirement shall not apply to such an entity selling residential manufactured homes and providing financing for such sales through loans or credit sales secured by first liens on residential manufactured homes, if the entity has an arrangement to sell such loans or credit sales in whole or in part, or where such loans or credit sales are sold in whole or in part, to a lender or other institution otherwise included in this section.
(c)
Loans which are secured by first liens on real estate
means loans on the security of any instrument (whether a mortgage, deed of trust, or land contract) which makes the interest in real estate (whether in fee, or in a leasehold or subleasehold extending, or renewable, automatically or at the option of the holder or the lender, for a period of at least 5 years beyond the maturity of the loan) specific security for the payment of the obligation secured by the instrument:
Provided,
That the instrument is of such a nature that, in the event of default, the real estate described in the instrument could be subjected to the satisfaction of the obligation with the same priority as a first mortgage of a first deed of trust in the jurisdiction where the real estate is located.
(d)
Loans secured by first liens on stock in a residential cooperative housing corporation
means loans on the security of:
(1) A first security interest in stock or a membership certificate issued to a tenant stockholder or resident member by a cooperative housing organization; and
(2) An assignment of the borrower's interest in the proprietary lease or occupancy agreement issued by such organization.
(e)
Loans secured by first liens on residential manufactured homes
means a loan made pursuant to an agreement by which the party extending the credit acquires a security interest in the residential manufactured home which will have priority over any conflicting security interest.
(f)
Residential real property
means real estate improved or to be improved by a structure or structures designed primarily for dwelling, as opposed to commercial use.
(g)
Residential manufactured home
shall mean a manufactured home as defined in the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5402(6), which is or will be used as a residence.
(h)
State
means the several states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands, except as provided in section 501(a)(2)(B) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, Public Law 96-221, 94 Stat. 161.
§ 190.3
Operation.
(a) The provisions of the constitution or law of any state expressly limiting the rate or amount of interest, discount points, finance charges, or other charges which may be charged, taken, received, or reserved shall not apply to any Federally-related loan:
(1) Made after March 31, 1980; and
(2) Secured by a first lien on:
(i) Residential real property;
(ii) Stock in a residential cooperative housing corporation when the loan is used to finance the acquisition of such stock; or
(iii) A residential manufactured home:
Provided,
That the loan so secured contains the consumer safeguards required by § 190.4 of this part;
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to loans made in any state on or before the date (after April 1, 1980 and prior to April l, 1983) on which the state adopts a law or certifies that the voters of such state have voted in favor of any law, constitutional or otherwise, which states explicitly and by its terms that such state does not want the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section to apply with respect to loans made in such state, except that—
(1) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to any loan which is made after such date pursuant to a commitment therefore which was entered into during the period beginning on April 1, 1980, and ending on the date the state takes such action;
(2) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to any rollover of a loan which loan was made, or committed to be made, during the period beginning on April 1, 1980, and ending on the date the state takes such action, if the mortgage document or loan note provided that the interest rate to the original borrower could be changed through the use of such a rollover; and
(3) At any time after the date of adoption of these regulations, any state may adopt a provision of law placing limitations on discount points or such other charges on any loan described in this part.
(c) Nothing in this section preempts limitations in state laws on prepayment charges, attorneys' fees, late charges or other provisions designed to protect borrowers.
§ 190.4
Federally-related residential manufactured housing loans—consumer protection provisions.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Prepayment.
A “prepayment” occurs upon—
(i) Refinancing or consolidation of the indebtedness;
(ii) Actual prepayment of the indebtedness by the debtor, whether voluntarily or following acceleration of the payment obligation by the creditor; or
(iii) The entry of a judgment for the indebtedness in favor of the creditor.
(2)
Actuarial method.
The term
actuarial method
means the method of allocating payments made on a debt between the outstanding balance of the obligation and the finance charge pursuant to which a payment is applied first to the accumulated finance charge and any remainder is subtracted from, or any deficiency is added to, the outstanding balance of the obligation.
(3)
Precomputed Finance Charge.
The term
precomputed finance charge
means interest or a time/price differential as computed by the add-on or discount method. Precomputed finance charges do not include loan fees, points, finder's fees, or similar charges.
(4)
Creditor.
The term
creditor
means any entity covered by this part, including those which regularly extend or arrange for the extension of credit and assignees that are creditors under section 501(a)(1)(C)(v) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980.
(b)
General.
(1) The provisions of the constitution or the laws of any state expressly limiting the rate or amount of interest, discount points, finance charges, or other charges which may be charged, taken, received, or reserved shall not apply to any loan, mortgage, credit sale, or advance which is secured by a first lien on a residential mobile home if a creditor covered by this part complies with the consumer protection regulations of this section.
(2)
Relation to state law.
(i) In making loans or credit sales subject to this section, creditors shall comply with state
and Federal law in accordance with the following:
(A)
State law regulating matters not covered by this section.
When state law regulating matters not covered by this section is otherwise applicable to a loan or credit sale subject to this section, creditors shall comply with such state law provisions.
(B)
State law regulating matters covered by this section.
Creditors need comply only with the provisions of this section, unless the OCC determines that an otherwise applicable state law regulating matters covered by this section provides greater protection to consumers. Such determinations shall be published in the
Federal Register
and shall operate prospectively.
(ii) Any interested party may petition the OCC for a determination that state law requirements are more protective of consumers than the provisions of this section. Petitions shall include:
(A) A copy of the state law to be considered;
(B) Copies of any relevant judicial, regulatory, or administrative interpretations of the state law; and
(C) An opinion or memorandum from the state Attorney General or other appropriate state official having primary enforcement responsibilities for the subject state law provision, indicating how the state law to be considered offers greater protection to consumers than the OCC's regulation.
(c)
Refund of precomputed finance charge.
In the event the entire indebtedness is prepaid, the unearned portion of the precomputed finance charge shall be refunded to the debtor. This refund shall be in an amount not less than the amount which would be refunded if the unearned precomputed finance charge were calculated in accordance with the actuarial method, except that the debtor shall not be entitled to a refund which, is less than one dollar. The unearned portion of the precomputed finance charge is, at the option of the creditor, either:
(1) That portion of the precomputed finance charge which is allocable to all unexpired payment periods as originally scheduled, or if deferred, as deferred. A payment period shall be deemed unexpired if prepayment is made within 15 days after the payment period's scheduled due date. The unearned precomputed finance charge is the total of that which would have been earned for each such period had the loan not been precomputed, by applying to unpaid balances of principal, according to the actuarial method, an annual percentage rate based on those charges which are considered precomputed finance charges in this section, assuming that all payments were made as originally scheduled, or as deferred, if deferred. The creditor, at its option, may round this annual percentage rate to the nearest one-quarter of one percent; or
(2) The total precomputed finance charge less the earned precomputed finance charge. The earned precomputed finance charge shall be determined by applying an annual percentage rate based on the total precomputed finance charge (as that term is defined in this section), under the actuarial method, to the unpaid balances for the actual time those balances were unpaid up to the date of prepayment. If a late charge or deferral fee has been collected, it shall be treated as a payment.
(d)
Prepayment penalties.
A debtor may prepay in full or in part the unpaid balance of the loan at any time without penalty. The right to prepay shall be disclosed in the loan contract in type larger than that used for the body of the document.
(e)
Balloon payments
—(1)
Federal savings associations.
Federal savings association creditors may enter into agreements with debtors which provide for non-amortized and partially-amortized loans on residential manufactured homes, and such loans shall be governed by the provisions of this section and 12 CFR 560.220 until superseding regulations are issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regarding the Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act.
(2)
Other creditors.
All other creditors may enter into agreements with debtors which provide for non-amortized and partially-amortized loans on residential manufactured homes to the extent authorized by applicable Federal or state law or regulation.
(f)
Late charges.
(1) No late charge may be assessed, imposed, or collected unless provided for by written contract between the creditor and debtor.
(2) To the extent that applicable state law does not provide for a longer period of time, no late charge may be collected on an installment which is paid in full on or before the 15th day after its scheduled or deferred due date even though an earlier maturing installment or a late charge on an earlier installment may not have been paid in full. For purposes of assessing late charges, payments received are deemed to be applied first to current installments.
(3) A late charge may be imposed only once on an installment; however, no such charge may be collected for a late installment which has been deferred.
(4) To the extent that applicable state law does not provide for a lower charge or a longer grace period, a late charge on any installment not paid in full on or before the 15th day after its scheduled or deferred due date may not exceed five percent of the unpaid amount of the installment.
(5) If, at any time after imposition of a late charge, the lender provides the borrower with written notice regarding amounts claimed to be due but unpaid, the notice shall separately state the total of all late charges claimed.
(6) Interest after the final scheduled maturity date may not exceed the maximum rate otherwise allowable under state law for such contracts, and if such interest is charged, no separate late charge may be made on the final scheduled installment.
(g)
Deferral fees.
(1) With respect to mobile home credit transactions containing precomputed finance charges, agreements providing for deferral of all or part of one or more installments shall be in writing, signed by the parties, and
(i) Provide, to the extent that applicable state law does not provide for a lower charge, for a charge not exceeding one percent of each installment or part thereof for each month from the date when such installment was due to the date when it is agreed to become payable and proportionately for a part of each month, counting each day as 1/30th of a month;
(ii) Incorporate by reference the transaction to which the deferral applied;
(iii) Disclose each installment or part thereof in the amount to be deferred, the date or dates originally payable, and the date or dates agreed to become payable: and
(iv) Set forth the fact of the deferral charge, the dollar amount of the charge for each installment to be deferred, and the total dollar amount to be paid by the debtor for the privilege of deferring payment.
(2) No term of a writing executed by the debtor shall constitute authority for a creditor unilaterally to grant a deferral with respect to which a charge is to be imposed or collected.
(3) The deferral period is that period of time in which no payment is required or made by reason of the deferral.
(4) Payments received with respect to deferred installments shall be deemed to be applied first to deferred installments.
(5) A charge may not be collected for the deferral of an installment or any part thereof if, with respect to that installment, a refinancing or consolidation agreement is concluded by the parties, or a late charge has been imposed or collected, unless such late charge is refunded to the borrower or credited to the deferral charge.
(h)
Notice before repossession, foreclosure, or acceleration.
(1) Except in the case of abandonment or other extreme circumstances, no action to repossess or foreclose, or to accelerate payment of the entire outstanding balance of the obligation, may be taken against the debtor until 30 days after the creditor sends the debtor a notice of default in the form set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. Such notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested. In the case of default on payments, the sum stated in the notice may only include payments in default and applicable late or deferral charges. If the debtor cures the default within 30 days of the postmark of the notice and subsequently defaults a second time, the creditor shall again give notice as described in
this paragraph (h)(1). The debtor is not entitled to notice of default more than twice in any one-year period.
(2) The notice in the following form shall state the nature of the default, the action the debtor must take to cure the default, the creditor's intended actions upon failure of the debtor to cure the default, and the debtor's right to redeem under state law.
To:
Date: , 20
Notice of Default and Right To Cure Default
Name, address, and telephone number of creditor
Account number, if any
Brief identification of credit transaction
You are now in default on this credit transaction. You have a right to correct this default within 30 days from the postmarked date of this notice.
If you correct the default, you may continue with the contract as though you did not default. Your default consists of:
Describe default alleged
Cure of default:
Within 30 days from the postmarked date of this notice, you may cure your default by (describe the acts necessary for cure, including, if applicable, the amount of payment required, including itemized delinquency or deferral charges).
Creditor's rights: If you do not correct your default in the time allowed, we may exercise our rights against you under the law by (describe action creditor intends to take).
If you have any questions, write (the creditor) at the above address or call (creditor's designated employee) at (telephone number) between the hours of and on (state days of week).
If this default was caused by your failure to make a payment or payments, and you want to pay by mail, please send a check or money order; do not send cash.
§ 190.100
Status of Interpretations issued under Public Law 96-161.
The OCC continues to adhere to the views expressed in the formal Interpretations issued under the authority of section 105(c) of Public Law 96-161, 93 Stat. 1233 (1979). These interpretations, which relate to the temporary preemption of state interest ceilings contained in Public Law 96-161, may be found at 45 FR 2840 (Jan. 15, 1980); 45 FR 6165 (Jan. 25, 1980); 45 FR 8000 (Feb. 6, 1980); 45 FR 15921 (Mar. 12, 1980).
§ 190.101
State criminal usury statutes.
(a) Section 501 provides that “the provisions of the constitution or laws of any state expressly limiting the rate or amount of interest, discount points, finance charges, or other charges shall not apply to any” Federally-related loan secured by a first lien on residential real property, a residential manufactured home, or all the stock allocated to a dwelling unit in a residential housing cooperative. 12 U.S.C. 1735f-7 note (Supp. IV 1980). The question has arisen as to whether the Federal statute preempts a state law which deems it a criminal offense to charge interest at a rate in excess of that specified in the state law.
(b) Section 501 preempts all state laws which expressly limit the rate or amount of interest chargeable on a Federally-related residential first mortgage. It does not matter whether the statute in question imposes criminal or civil sanctions; section 501, by its terms, preempts “any” state law which imposes a ceiling on interest rates. The wording of the Federal statute clearly expresses an intent to displace all direct state law restraints on interest. Any state law that conflicts with this Congressional purpose must yield.
Pt. 191

# PART 191—PREEMPTION OF STATE DUE-ON-SALE LAWS
Sec.
191.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
191.2
Definitions.
191.3
Loans originated by Federal savings associations.
191.4
Loans originated by lenders other than Federal savings associations.
191.5
Limitation on exercise of due-on-sale clauses.
191.6
Interpretations.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1464, 1701j-3, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
76 FR 49154, Aug. 9, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 191.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part contains regulations issued under section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended, and under section 341 of the Garn-St Germain Depository Institutions Act of 1982, Public Law 97-320, 96 Stat. 1469, 1505-1507.
(b)
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this permanent preemption of state prohibitions on the exercise of due-on-sale clauses by all lenders, whether Federally- or state-chartered, is to reaffirm the authority of Federal savings associations to enforce due-on-sale clauses, and to confer on other lenders generally comparable authority with respect to the exercise of such clauses. This part applies to all real property loans, and all lenders making such loans, as those terms are defined in § 191.2 of this part.
§ 191.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Assumed
includes transfers of real property subject to a real property loan by assumptions, installment land sales contracts, wraparound loans, contracts for deed, transfers subject to the mortgage or similar lien, and other like transfers. “Completed credit application” has the same meaning as completed application for credit as provided in § 202.2(f) of this title.
(b)
Due-on-sale clause
means a contract provision which authorizes the lender, at its option, to declare immediately due and payable sums secured by the lender's security instrument upon a sale of transfer of all or any part of the real property securing the loan without the lender's prior written consent. For purposes of this definition, a
sale or transfer
means the conveyance of real property of any right, title or interest therein, whether legal or equitable, whether voluntary or involuntary, by outright sale, deed, installment sale contract, land contract, contract for deed, leasehold interest with a term greater than three years, lease-option contract or any other method of conveyance of real property interests.
(c)
Federal savings association
has the same meaning as provided in § 141.11 of this chapter.
(d)
Federal credit union
means a credit union chartered under the Federal Credit Union Act.
(e)
Home
has the same meaning as provided in § 141.14 of this chapter.
(f)
Savings association
has the same meaning as provided in § 161.43 of this chapter.
(g)
Lender
means a person or government agency making a real property loan, including without limitation, individuals, Federal savings associations, state-chartered savings associations, national banks, state-chartered banks and state-chartered mutual savings banks, Federal credit unions, state-chartered credit unions, mortgage banks, insurance companies and finance companies which make real property loans, manufactured-home retailers who extend credit, agencies of the Federal government, any lender approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for participation in any mortgage insurance program under the National Housing Act, and any assignee or transferee, in whole or part, of any such persons or agencies.
(h)
Loan secured by a lien on real property
means a loan on the security of any instrument (whether a mortgage, deed or trust, or land contract) which makes the interest in real property (whether in fee, or in a leasehold or subleasehold) specific security for the payment of the obligation secured by the instrument.
(i)
Loan secured by a lien on stock in a residential cooperative housing corporation
means a loan on the security of:
(1) A security interest in stock or a membership certificate issued to a tenant stockholder or resident member by a cooperative housing organization; and
(2) An assignment of the borrower's interest in the proprietary lease or occupancy agreement issued by such organization.
(j)
Loan secured by a lien on a residential manufactured home, whether real or personal property,
means a loan made pursuant to an agreement by which the party extending the credit acquires a security interest in the residential manufactured home.
(k)
Loan originated by
a Federal savings association or other lender means any loan for which the lender makes
the first advance of credit thereunder,
Provided,
That such lender then held a beneficial interest in the loan, whether as to the whole loan or a portion thereof, and whether or not the loan is later held by or transferred to another lender.
(l)
Real property loan
means any loan, mortgage, advance or credit sale secured by a lien on real property, the stock or membership certificate allocated to a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing corporation, or a residential manufactured home, whether real or personal property.
(m)
Residential manufactured home
has the same meaning as provided in § 190.2(g) of this chapter.
(n)
Reverse mortgage
means an instrument that provides for one or more payments to a homeowner based on accumulated equity. The lender may make payment directly, through the purchase of an annuity through an insurance company, or in any other manner. The loan may be due either on a specific date or when a specified event occurs, such as the sale of the property or the death of the borrower.
(o)
State
means the several states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
(p)(1) A
window-period loan
means a real property loan, not originated by a Federal savings association, which was made or assumed during a window-period created by state law and subject to that law, which loan was recorded, at the time of origination or assumption, before October 15, 1982, or within 60 days thereafter (December 14, 1982).
(2) The window-period begins on:
(i) The date a state adopted a law (by means of a constitutional provision or statute) prohibiting the unrestricted exercise of due-on-sale clauses upon outright transfers of property securing loans subject to the state law creating the window-period, or the effective date of a constitutional or statutory provision so adopted, whichever is later; or
(ii) The date on which the highest court of the state rendered a decision prohibiting such unrestricted exercise (or if the highest court has not so decided, the date on which the next highest appellate court rendered a decision resulting in a final judgment which applies statewide), and ends on the earlier of the date such state law prohibition terminated under state law or October 15, 1982.
(3) Categories of state law which create window-periods by prohibiting the unrestricted exercise of due-on-sale clauses upon outright transfers of property securing loans subject to such state law restrictions include laws or judicial decisions which permit the lender to exercise its option under a due-on-sale clause only where:
(i) The lender's security interest or the likelihood of repayment is impaired; or
(ii) The lender is required to accept an assumption of the existing loan without an interest-rate change or with an interest-rate change below the market interest rate currently being offered by the lender on similar loans secured by similar property at the time of the transfer.
§ 191.3
Loans originated by Federal savings associations.
(a) With regard to any real property loan originated or to be originated by a Federal savings association, as a matter of contract between it and the borrower, a Federal savings association continues to have the power to include a due-on-sale clause in its loan instrument.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in § 191.5 of this part with respect to any such loan made on the security of a home occupied or to be occupied by the borrower, exercise by any lender of a due-on-sale clause in a loan originated by a Federal savings association shall be exclusively governed by the terms of the loan contract, and all rights and remedies of the lender and borrower shall at all times be fixed and governed by that contract.
§ 191.4
Loans originated by lenders other than Federal savings associations.
(a) With regard to any real property loan originated by a lender other than a Federal savings association, as a matter of contract between it and the borrower, the lender has the power to
include a due on sale clause in its loan instrument.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section and § 191.5 of this part, the exercise of due-on-sale clauses in loans originated by lenders other than Federal savings associations shall be governed exclusively by the terms of the loan contract, and all rights and remedies of the lender and the borrower shall be fixed and governed by that contract.
(c)(1) In the case of a window-period loan, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply only in the case of a sale or transfer of the property subject to the real property loan and only if such sale or transfer occurs on or after October 15, 1985:
Provided,
That:
(i) With respect to real property loans originated in a state by lenders other than national banks, Federal savings associations, and Federal credit unions, a state may otherwise regulate such contracts by state law enacted prior to October 16, 1985, in which case paragraph (b) of this section shall apply only if such state law so provides; and
(ii) With respect to real property loans originated by national banks and Federal credit unions, the OCC or the National Credit Union Administration Board, respectively, may otherwise regulate such contracts by regulations promulgated prior to October 16, 1985, in which case paragraph (b) of this section shall apply only if such regulation so provides.
(2) A lender may not exercise its options pursuant to a due-on-sale clause contained in a window-period loan in the case of a sale or transfer of property securing such loan where the sale or transfer occurred prior to October 15, 1982.
(d)(1) Prior to the sale or transfer of property securing a window-period loan subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(i) Any lender in the business of making real property loans may require any successor or transferee of the borrower to supply credit information customarily required by the lender in connection with credit applications, to complete its customary credit application, and to meet customary credit standards applied by such lender, at the date of sale or transfer, to the lender's similar loans secured by similar property.
(ii) Any lender not in the business of making loans may require any successor or transferee of the borrower to meet credit standards customarily applied by other similarly situated lenders or sellers in the geographic market within which the transaction occurs, for similar loans secured by similar property, prior to the lender's consent to the transfer.
(2) The lender may exercise a due-on-sale clause in a window-period loan if:
(i) The successor or transferee of the borrower fails to meet the lender's credit standards as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Upon transfer of the security property and not later than fifteen days after written request by the lender, the successor or transferee of the borrower fails to provide information requested by the lender pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section, to determine whether such successor or transferee of the borrower meets the lender's customary credit standards.
(3) The lender shall, within thirty days of receipt of a completed credit application and any other related information provided by the successor or transferee of the borrower, determine whether such successor or transferee meets the customary credit standards of the lender and provide written notice to the successor or transferee of its decision, and the reasons in the event of a disapproval. Failure of the lender to provide such notice shall preclude the lender from exercise of its due-on-sale clause upon the sale or transfer of the property securing the loan.
(4) The lender's right to exercise a due-on-sale clause pursuant to this paragraph (d)(4) is in addition to any other rights afforded the lender by state law regulating window-period loans with regard to the exercise of due-on-sale clauses and loan assumptions.
§ 191.5
Limitation on exercise of due-on-sale clauses.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in § 191.4(c) and (d)(4) of this part, due-on-sale practices of Federal savings associations and other lenders shall be governed exclusively by the OCC's regulations, in preemption of and without regard to any limitations imposed by state law on either their inclusion or exercise including, without limitation, state law prohibitions against restraints on alienation, prohibitions against penalties and forfeitures, equitable restrictions and state law dealing with equitable transfers.
(b)
Specific limitations.
With respect to any loan on the security of a home occupied or to be occupied by the borrower,
(1) A lender shall not (except with regard to a reverse mortgage) exercise its option pursuant to a due-on-sale clause upon:
(i) The creation of a lien or other encumbrance subordinate to the lender's security instrument which does not relate to a transfer of rights of occupancy in the property:
Provided,
That such lien or encumbrance is not created pursuant to a contract for deed;
(ii) The creation of a purchase-money security interest for household appliances;
(iii) A transfer by devise, descent, or operation of law on the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety;
(iv) The granting of a leasehold interest which has a term of three years or less and which does not contain an option to purchase (that is, either a lease of more than three years or a lease with an option to purchase will allow the exercise of a due-on-sale clause);
(v) A transfer, in which the transferee is a person who occupies or will occupy the property, which is:
(A) A transfer to a relative resulting from the death of the borrower;
(B) A transfer where the spouse or child(ren) becomes an owner of the property; or
(C) A transfer resulting from a decree of dissolution of marriage, legal separation agreement, or from an incidental property settlement agreement by which the spouse becomes an owner of the property; or
(vi) A transfer into an inter vivos trust in which the borrower is and remains the beneficiary and occupant of the property, unless, as a condition precedent to such transfer, the borrower refuses to provide the lender with reasonable means acceptable to the lender by which the lender will be assured of timely notice of any subsequent transfer of the beneficial interest or change in occupancy.
(2) A lender shall not impose a prepayment penalty or equivalent fee when the lender or party acting on behalf of the lender.
(i) Declares by written notice that the loan is due pursuant to a due-on-sale clause or
(ii) Commences a judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure proceeding to enforce a due-on-sale clause or to seek payment in full as a result of invoking such clause.
(3) A lender shall not impose a prepayment penalty or equivalent fee when the lender or party acting on behalf of the lender fails to approve within 30 days the completed credit application of a qualified transferee of the security property to assume the loan in accordance with the terms of the loan, and thereafter the borrower transfers the security property to such transferee and prepays the loan in full within 120 days after receipt by the lender of the completed credit application. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), a
qualified transferee
is a person who qualifies for the loan under the lender's applicable underwriting standards and who occupies or will occupy the security property.
(4) A lender waives its option to exercise a due-on-sale clause as to a specific transfer if, before the transfer, the lender and the existing borrower's prospective successor in interest agree in writing that the successor in interest will be obligated under the terms of the loan and that interest on sums secured by the lender's security interest will be payable at a rate the lender shall request. Upon such agreement and resultant waiver, a lender shall release the existing borrower from all obligations under the loan instruments, and the lender is deemed to have made a new
loan to the existing borrower's successor in interest. The waiver and release apply to all loans secured by homes occupied by borrowers made by a Federal savings association after July 31, 1976, and to all loans secured by homes occupied by borrowers made by other lenders after the effective date of this regulation.
(5) Nothing in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be construed to restrict a lender's right to enforce a due-on-sale clause upon the subsequent occurrence of any event which disqualifies a transfer for a previously-applicable exception under that paragraph (b)(1).
(c)
Policy considerations.
Paragraph (b) of this section does not prohibit a lender from requiring, as a condition to an assumption, continued maintenance of mortgage insurance by the existing borrower's successor in interest, whether by endorsement of the existing policy or by entrance into a new contract of insurance.
§ 191.6
Interpretations.
The OCC periodically will publish Interpretations under section 341 of the Garn-St Germain Depository Institutions Act of 1982, Public Law 97-320, 96 Stat. 1469, 1505-1507, in the
Federal Register
in response to written requests sent to the OCC.
Pt. 192

# PART 192—CONVERSIONS FROM MUTUAL TO STOCK FORM
Sec.
192.5
Purpose, prescribed forms, waiver.
192.7
Electronic filing.
192.8
Computation of time.
192.10
Forming a holding company upon conversion.
192.15
Forming a charitable organization upon conversion.
192.20
Acquiring another insured depository institution upon conversion.
192.25
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Standard Conversions

# Prior to Conversion
192.100
Preparing for a conversion.
192.105
Information required in business plan.
192.110
Review of business plan by chief executive officer and board of directors.
192.115
Review of business plan by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
192.120
Confidentiality of conversion information.

# Plan of Conversion
192.125
Adoption of plan of conversion by board of directors.
192.130
Information required in plan of conversion.
192.135
Notifying members of adopted plan of conversion.
192.140
Amendments to plan of conversion.

# Filing Requirements
192.150
Information required in an application for conversion.
192.155
Filing an application for conversion.
192.160
Request for confidential treatment.
192.165
Amendments to an application for conversion.

# Notice of Filing of Application and Comment Process
192.180
Public notice of an application for conversion.
192.185
Public comment on application for conversion.

# Agency Review of the Application for Conversion
192.200
Review, approval, or denial of application for conversion.
192.205
Court review of final action on application for conversion.

# Vote by Members
195.225
Approval of plan of conversion by members.
192.230
Members' voting eligibility.
192.235
Notice of members' meeting.
192.240
Submission of documents to the appropriate Federal banking agency after the members' meeting.

# Proxy Solicitation
192.250
Compliance with proxy solicitation provisions.
192.255
Form of proxy requirements.
192.260
Previously executed proxies.
192.265
Proxies executed under this part.
192.270
Proxy statement requirements.
192.275
Filing revised proxy materials.
192.280
Mailing member's proxy solicitation materials.
192.285
Prohibited solicitations.
192.290
Remedial measures for prohibited solicitations.
192.295
Re-solicitation of proxies.

# Offering Circular
192.300
Offering circular requirements.
192.305
Distribution of offering circular.
192.310
Filing a post-effective amendment to an offering circular.

# Offers and Sales of Stock
192.320
Order of priority to purchase conversion shares.
192.325
Timing of offer to sell conversion shares.
192.330
Pricing of conversion shares.
192.335
Procedures for the sale of conversion shares.
192.340
Prohibited sales practices.
192.345
Permissible forms of subscriber payment.
192.350
Interest on payments for conversion shares.
192.355
Subscription rights for eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders.
192.360
Officers, directors, and associates as eligible account holders.
192.365
Purchase of conversion shares by other voting members.
192.370
Limits on aggregate purchases by officers, directors, and associates.
192.375
Allocation of oversubscribed conversion shares.
192.380
Purchase of conversion shares by employee stock ownership plan.
192.385
Purchase limitations.
192.390
Community offering of conversion shares.
192.395
Other conditions for community and public offerings.

# Completion of the Offering
192.400
Time period for completion of sale of stock.
192.405
Extension of the offering period.

# Completion of the Conversion
192.420
Time period for completion of the conversion.
192.425
Termination of conversion.
192.430
Charter amendments.
192.435
Corporate existence after conversion.
192.440
Stockholder voting rights after conversion.
192.445
Savings account holder's account after conversion.

# Liquidation Account
192.450
Liquidation accounts.
192.455
Initial balance of liquidation account.
192.460
Initial balance of liquidation sub-account.
192.465
Retention of voting rights based on liquidation sub-accounts.
192.470
Required adjustments to liquidation sub-accounts.
192.475
Definition of liquidation.
192.480
Effect of liquidation account on net worth.
192.485
Required liquidation account provision in new Federal charter.

# Post-Conversion
192.500
Permissible management stock benefit plans after conversion.
192.505
Restrictions on the trading of shares by directors, officers, and associates.
192.510
Repurchase of shares after conversion.
192.515
Information to be filed with Federal banking agency prior to repurchase of shares.
192.520
Declaring and paying dividends after the conversion.
192.525
Restrictions on acquisition of shares after conversion.
192.530
Other post-conversion requirements.

# Contributions to Charitable Organizations
192.550
Donating conversion shares or conversion proceeds to a charitable organization.
192.555
Member approval of charitable contributions.
192.560
Limitations on charitable contributions.
192.565
Contents of organizational documents of charitable organization.
192.570
Conflicts of interest among directors.
192.575
Other requirements for charitable organizations.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Supervisory Conversions
192.600
Voluntary supervisory conversions.
192.605
Conducting a voluntary supervisory conversion.
192.610
Member rights in a voluntary supervisory conversion.

# Eligibility
192.625
Eligibility for a voluntary supervisory conversion.
192.630
Eligibility of State-chartered savings bank for voluntary supervisory conversion.

# Plan of Supervisory Conversion
192.650
Contents of plan of voluntary supervisory conversion.

# Voluntary Supervisory Conversion Application
192.660
Contents of voluntary supervisory conversion application.

# Appropriate Federal Banking Agency Review of the Voluntary Supervisory Conversion Application
192.670
Approval of voluntary supervisory conversion application.
192.675
Conditions imposed upon approval of voluntary supervisory conversion application.

# Offers and Sales of Stock
192.680
Offer and sale of shares in a voluntary supervisory conversion.

# Post-Conversion
192.690
Restrictions on acquisition of additional shares after voluntary supervisory conversion.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 2901
et seq.,
5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 78c, 78
l
, 78m, 78n, 78w.

# Source:
85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 192.5
Purpose, prescribed forms, waiver.
(a)
General.
This part governs how a savings association may convert from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. Subpart A of this part governs standard mutual-to-stock conversions. Subpart B of this part governs voluntary supervisory mutual-to-stock conversions. This part supersedes all inconsistent charter and bylaw provisions of Federal savings associations converting to stock form.
(b)
Prescribed forms.
A savings association must use the forms prescribed under this part and part 16 and provide such information as the appropriate Federal banking agency may require under the forms and by regulation. The forms required under this part include: Form AC (Application for Conversion); Form PS (Proxy Statement); Form OC (Offering Circular); Form OF (Order Form); and the applicable form for a registration statement under 12 CFR 16.15. Forms AC, PS, OC, and OF are available on the website of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) at
http://www.occ.gov
.
(c)
Waivers.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may waive any requirement of this part or a provision in any prescribed form. To obtain a waiver, a savings association must file a written request with the appropriate Federal banking agency that:
(1) Specifies the requirement(s) or provision(s) the savings association wants the appropriate Federal banking agency to waive;
(2) Demonstrates that the waiver is equitable; is not detrimental to the savings association, its account holders, or other savings associations; and is not contrary to the public interest; and
(3) Includes an opinion of counsel demonstrating that applicable law does not conflict with the waiver of the requirement or provision.
(d)
Financial statements.
The form and content of financial statements and related financial data in a filing under this part must be prepared and presented in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles and other applicable accounting guidance and requirements as specified by the OCC in the forms required under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 192.7
Electronic filing.
For Federal savings associations, the OCC encourages the electronic filing of all applications, notices, or other documents required by this part through
http://www.banknet.gov/
. The Comptroller's Licensing Manual describes the OCC's electronic filing procedures.
§ 192.8
Computation of time.
In computing the period of days, the OCC excludes the day of the act or event (
e.g.,
the date an application is received by the OCC) from when the period begins to run. When the last day of a time period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the time period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
§ 192.10
Forming a holding company upon conversion.
A savings association may convert to the stock form of ownership as part of a transaction where the savings association organizes a holding company to acquire all of the savings association's shares upon their issuance. In this transaction, the savings association's holding company will offer rights to purchase its shares instead of the savings association's shares. Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System address holding company application requirements.
§ 192.15
Forming a charitable organization upon conversion.
When a savings association converts to the stock form, it may form a charitable organization. A savings association's contributions to the charitable organization are governed by the requirements of §§ 192.550 through 192.575.
§ 192.20
Acquiring another insured depository institution upon conversion.
When a savings association converts to stock form, it may acquire for cash or stock another insured depository institution that is already in the stock form of ownership.
§ 192.25
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part and the forms prescribed under this part:
Acting in concert
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 5.50(d)(2). The rebuttable presumptions of 12 CFR 5.50(f)(2), other than 12 CFR 5.50(f)(2)(ii)(A) and (B), apply to the share purchase limitations at §§ 192.355 through 192.395.
Affiliate of,
or a person
affiliated with,
a specified person is a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the specified person.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
means appropriate Federal banking agency as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).
Associate
of a person is:
(1) A corporation or organization (other than a savings association or its majority-owned subsidiaries), if the person is a senior officer or partner, or beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities of the corporation or organization.
(2) A trust or other estate, if the person has a substantial beneficial interest in the trust or estate or is a trustee or fiduciary of the trust or estate. For purposes of §§ 192.370 through 192.395 and 192.505, a person who has a substantial beneficial interest in a savings association's tax-qualified or non-tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan, or who is a trustee or a fiduciary of the plan, is not an associate of the plan. For the purposes of § 192.370, a savings association's tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan is not an associate of a person.
(3) Any person who is related by blood or marriage to such person and:
(i) Who lives in the same home as the person; or
(ii) Who is the savings association's director or senior officer, or a director or senior officer of the savings association's holding company or its subsidiary.
Association members
or
members
are persons who, under applicable law, are eligible to vote at the meeting on conversion.
Community offering
means the offer to sell to the members of the general public in the savings association's community the securities not subscribed for in the subscription offering. The community offering may occur concurrently with the subscription offering and any syndicated community offering, or upon conclusion of the subscription offering.
Control
(including
controlling, controlled by,
and
under common control with
) means the direct or indirect power to direct or exercise a controlling influence over the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise as described in 12 CFR 5.50.
Demand accounts
means non-interest-bearing demand deposits that are subject to check or to withdrawal or transfer on negotiable or transferable order to the savings association and that are permitted to be issued by statute, regulation, or otherwise and are payable on demand.
Eligibility record date
is the date for determining eligible account holders. The eligibility record date must be at least one year before the date a savings association's board of directors adopts the plan of conversion.
Eligible account holders
are any persons holding qualifying deposits on the eligibility record date.
Federal savings association
means a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank chartered under section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) (12 U.S.C. 1464).
IRS
is the Internal Revenue Service.
Local community
includes:
(1) Every county, parish, or similar governmental subdivision in which a savings association has a home or branch office;
(2) Each county's, parish's, or subdivision's metropolitan statistical area;
(3) All zip code areas in a savings association's Community Reinvestment Act assessment area; and
(4) Any other area or category that a savings association sets out in its plan of conversion, as approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
Offer, offer to sell,
or
offer for sale
is an attempt or offer to dispose of, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, a security or interest in a security for value. Preliminary negotiations or agreements with an underwriter, or among underwriters who are or will be in privity of contract with a savings association, are not offers, offers to sell, or offers for sale.
Offering circular
means the securities offering materials for the conversion.
Person
is an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a limited liability company, a trust, an unincorporated organization, or a government or political subdivision of a government.
Proxy soliciting material
includes a proxy statement, form of proxy, or other written or oral communication regarding the conversion.
Purchase
or
buy
includes every contract to acquire a security or interest in a security for value.
Qualifying deposit
is the total balance in an account holder's savings accounts at the close of business on the eligibility or supplemental eligibility record date. A savings association's plan of conversion may provide that only savings accounts with total deposit balances of $50 or more will qualify.
Sale
or
sell
includes every contract to dispose of a security or interest in a security for value. An exchange of securities in a merger or acquisition approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency is not a sale.
Savings account
means any withdrawable account, including a demand account, except this term does not mean a tax and loan account, a note account, a United States Treasury general account, or a United States Treasury time deposit-open account.
Savings association
means a savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)).
Solicitation
and
solicit
is a request for a proxy, whether or not accompanied by or included in a form of proxy; a request to execute, not execute, or revoke a proxy; or the furnishing of a form of proxy or other communication reasonably calculated to cause a savings association's members to procure, withhold, or revoke a proxy. Solicitation or solicit does not include providing a form of proxy at the unsolicited request of a member, the acts required to mail communications for members, or ministerial acts performed on behalf of a person soliciting a proxy.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
State savings association
means a State savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3)).
Subscription offering
is the offering of shares through nontransferable subscription rights to:
(1) Eligible account holders under § 192.355;
(2) Tax-qualified employee stock ownership plans under § 192.380;
(3) Supplemental eligible account holders under § 192.355; and
(4) Other voting members under § 192.365.
Supplemental eligibility record date
is the date for determining supplemental eligible account holders. The supplemental eligibility record date is the last day of the calendar quarter before the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a savings association's conversion and will only occur if such agency has not approved such conversion within 15 months after the eligibility record date.
Supplemental eligible account holders
are any persons, except a savings association's officers, directors, and their associates, holding qualifying deposits on the supplemental eligibility record date.
Tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan
is any defined benefit plan or defined contribution plan, such as an employee stock ownership plan, stock bonus plan, profit-sharing plan, or other plan, and a related trust, that is qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401).
Underwriter
is any person who purchases any securities from a savings association with a view to distributing the securities, offers or sells securities for a savings association in connection with the securities' distribution, or participates or has a direct or indirect participation in the direct or indirect underwriting of any such undertaking. Underwriter does not include a person whose interest is limited to a usual and customary distributor's or seller's commission from an underwriter or dealer.
Voluntary supervisory conversion
is a mutual to stock conversion for a savings association that is unable to complete a standard mutual to stock conversion under part 192, subpart A, and that meets the eligibility requirements of § 192.625.

# Subpart A—Standard Conversions

# Prior to Conversion
§ 192.100
Preparing for a conversion.
(a)
Meeting with appropriate Federal banking agency prior to passing plan.
A savings association's board, or a subcommittee of its board, must meet, in person or electronically, with the appropriate Federal banking agency before the savings association passes its plan of conversion. At this meeting the savings association must provide the appropriate Federal banking agency with a written strategic plan that outlines the objectives of the proposed conversion and the intended use of the conversion proceeds.
(b)
Consultation with appropriate Federal banking agency before filing application.
A savings association also should consult with the appropriate Federal banking agency before filing its application for conversion. The appropriate Federal banking agency will discuss the information that the savings association must include in the application for conversion, general issues that it may confront in the conversion process, and any other pertinent issues.
§ 192.105
Information required in business plan.
(a)
Minimum requirements.
Prior to filing an application for conversion, a savings association must adopt a business plan reflecting its intended plans for deployment of the proposed conversion proceeds. The savings association's business plan is required, under § 192.150, to be included in its application for conversion. At a minimum, the business plan must address:
(1) The savings association's projected operations and activities for three years following the conversion. These projections must include how the savings association will accomplish the following by the final year of the business plan:
(i) Deploy the conversion proceeds at the converted savings association (and holding company, if applicable);
(ii) What opportunities are available to reasonably achieve its planned deployment of conversion proceeds in the proposed market areas; and
(iii) How the deployment will provide a reasonable return on investment commensurate with investment risk, investor expectations, and industry norms. The savings association must include three years of projected financial statements. The business plan must provide that the converted savings association must retain at least 50 percent of the net conversion proceeds. The appropriate Federal banking agency may require that a larger percentage of proceeds remain in the institution.
(2) The savings association's plan for deploying conversion proceeds to meet credit and lending needs in the proposed market areas. The appropriate Federal banking agencies strongly discourage business plans that provide for a substantial investment in mortgage securities or other securities, except as an interim measure to facilitate orderly, prudent deployment of proceeds
during the three years following the conversion or as part of a properly managed leverage strategy.
(3) The risks associated with the savings association's plan for deployment of conversion proceeds, and the effect of this plan on management resources, staffing, and facilities.
(4) The expertise of the savings association's management and board of directors, or plans for adequate staffing and controls to prudently manage the growth, expansion, new investment, and other operations and activities proposed in the business plan.
(b)
Prohibited information.
The savings association may not project returns of capital or special dividends in any part of the business plan. A newly converted company may not plan on stock repurchases in the first year of the business plan.
§ 192.110
Review of business plan by chief executive officer and board of directors.
(a)
Review and approval.
A savings association's chief executive officer and members of the board of directors must review, and at least two-thirds of the board of directors must approve, the business plan.
(b)
Certification.
A savings association's chief executive officer and at least two-thirds of the board of directors must certify that the business plan accurately reflects the intended plans for deployment of conversion proceeds, and that any new initiatives reflected in the business plan are reasonably achievable. The savings association must submit these certifications with its business plan, as part of its application for conversion under § 192.150.
§ 192.115
Review of business plan by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(a)
Agency review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the savings association's business plan to determine that it demonstrates a safe and sound deployment of conversion proceeds, as part of its review of the application for conversion. In making its determination, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider how the savings association has addressed the applicable factors of § 192.105. No single factor will be determinative.
(b)
Filing of business plan.
A savings association must file its business plan as a separate confidential exhibit to the Form AC with the appropriate OCC licensing office if it is a Federal savings association, or with the appropriate Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) region if it is a State savings association. The appropriate Federal banking agency may request additional information, if necessary, to support its determination under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Operation within business plan.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a savings association's application for conversion and the conversion is completed, the savings association must operate within the parameters of its business plan. The savings association must obtain the prior written approval of the appropriate Federal banking agency for any material deviations from its business plan.
§ 192.120
Confidentiality of conversion information.
(a)
Permitted disclosure.
A savings association may discuss information about its conversion with individuals that the savings association authorizes to prepare documents for its conversion.
(b)
Confidential information.
Except as permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, a savings association must keep all information about its conversion confidential until its board of directors adopts the plan of conversion.
(c)
Violations of confidentiality.
If a savings association violates this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency may require the savings association to take remedial action. For example, the appropriate Federal banking agency may require the savings association to take any or all of the following actions:
(1) Publicly announce that the savings association is considering a conversion;
(2) Set an eligibility record date acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency;
(3) Limit the subscription rights of any person who violates or aids a violation of this section; or
(4) Any other action to assure that the conversion is fair and equitable.

# Plan of Conversion
§ 192.125
Adoption of plan of conversion by board of directors.
Prior to filing an application for conversion, a savings association's board of directors must adopt a plan of conversion that conforms to §§ 192.320 through 192.485 and 192.505. The savings association's board of directors must adopt the plan by at least a two-thirds vote. Pursuant to § 192.150, the savings association must include the plan of conversion in the application for conversion.
§ 192.130
Information required in plan of conversion.
A savings association must include the information included in §§ 192.320 through 192.485 and 192.505 in its plan of conversion. The appropriate Federal banking agency may require the savings association to delete or revise any provision in its plan of conversion if it determines the provision is inequitable; is detrimental to the savings association, its account holders, or other savings associations; or is contrary to public interest.
§ 192.135
Notifying members of adopted plan of conversion.
(a)
Notice.
A savings association must promptly notify its members that the board of directors adopted a plan of conversion and that a copy of the plan is available for the members' inspection in the savings association's home office and in its branch offices. The savings association must provide this notice by sending to each member a letter, through the mail or electronically if the member receives electronic communication, or by publishing a notice in the local newspaper in every local community where the savings association has an office. The savings association also may issue a press release and may make this notice available on its website. The appropriate Federal banking agency may require broader publication, if necessary, to ensure adequate notice to the savings association's members.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The savings association may include only the following statements and descriptions in the letter, notice, or press release.
(1) The savings association's board of directors adopted a proposed plan to convert from a mutual to a stock savings institution.
(2) The savings association will send its members a proxy statement with detailed information on the proposed conversion before the savings association convenes a members' meeting to vote on the conversion.
(3) The savings association's members will have an opportunity to approve or disapprove the proposed conversion at a meeting. A majority of the eligible votes must approve the conversion.
(4) The savings association will not vote existing proxies to approve or disapprove the conversion. The savings association will solicit new proxies for voting on the proposed conversion.
(5) The appropriate Federal banking agency, and in the case of a State-chartered savings association, the appropriate State regulator, must approve the conversion before the conversion will be effective. The savings association's members will have an opportunity to file written comments, including objections and materials supporting the objections, with the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(6) The IRS must issue a favorable tax ruling, or a tax expert must issue an appropriate tax opinion, on the tax consequences of the savings association's conversion before the appropriate Federal banking agency will approve the conversion. The ruling or opinion must indicate the conversion will be a tax-free reorganization.
(7) The appropriate Federal banking agency, and in the case of a State-chartered savings association, the appropriate State regulator, might not approve the conversion, and the IRS or a tax expert might not issue a favorable tax ruling or tax opinion.
(8) Savings account holders will continue to hold accounts in the converted savings association with the same dollar amounts, rates of return, and general terms as existing deposits. The FDIC will continue to insure the accounts.
(9) The savings association's conversion will not affect borrowers' loans, including the amount, rate, maturity, security, and other contractual terms.
(10) The savings association's business of accepting deposits and making loans will continue without interruption.
(11) The savings association's current management and staff will continue to conduct current services for depositors and borrowers under current policies and in existing offices.
(12) The savings association may substantively amend its proposed plan of conversion before the members' meeting.
(13) The savings association may terminate the proposed conversion.
(14) After the appropriate Federal banking agency, and in the case of a State-chartered savings association, the appropriate State regulator, approves the proposed conversion, the savings association will send proxy materials providing additional information. After the savings association sends proxy materials, members may telephone or write to the savings association with additional questions.
(15) The proposed record date for determining the eligible account holders who are entitled to receive subscription rights to purchase the savings association's shares.
(16) A brief description of the circumstances under which supplemental eligible account holders will receive subscription rights to purchase the savings association's shares.
(17) A brief description of how voting members may participate in the conversion.
(18) A brief description of how directors, officers, and employees will participate in the conversion.
(19) A brief description of the proposed plan of conversion.
(20) The par value (if any) and approximate number of shares the savings association will issue and sell in the conversion.
(c)
Other requirements.
(1) The savings association may not solicit proxies, provide financial statements, describe the benefits of conversion, or estimate the value of its shares upon conversion in the letter, notice, or press release.
(2) If the savings association responds to inquiries about the conversion, it may address only the matters listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 192.140
Amendments to plan of conversion.
A savings association may amend its plan of conversion before it solicits proxies. After the savings association solicits proxies, it may amend the plan of conversion only if the appropriate Federal banking agency concurs.

# Filing Requirements
§ 192.150
Information required in an application for conversion.
(a)
Required information.
A savings association's application for conversion must include all of the following information.
(1) The savings association's plan of conversion.
(2) Pricing materials meeting the requirements of § 192.200(b).
(3) Proxy soliciting materials under § 192.270, including:
(i) A preliminary proxy statement with signed financial statements;
(ii) A form of proxy meeting the requirements of § 192.255; and
(iii) Any additional proxy soliciting materials, including press releases, personal solicitation instructions, radio or television scripts that the savings association plans to use or furnish to its members, and a legal opinion indicating that any marketing materials comply with all applicable securities laws.
(4) An offering circular described in § 192.300.
(5) The documents and information required by Form AC. The savings association may obtain Form AC from the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(6) Where indicated, written consents, signed and dated, of any accountant, attorney, investment banker, appraiser, or other professional who prepared, reviewed, passed upon, or certified any statement, report, or valuation for use.
See
Form AC, instructions.
(7) The savings association's business plan, submitted as a separately bound, confidential exhibit.
See
§ 192.160.
(8) Any additional information that the appropriate Federal banking agency requests.
(b)
Rejection of filing.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will not accept for filing, and may return, any application for conversion that is executed improperly, materially deficient, substantially incomplete, or that provides for unreasonable conversion expenses.
§ 192.155
Filing an application for conversion.
A Federal savings association must file Form AC with the appropriate OCC licensing office. A State savings association must file its application with the appropriate FDIC region.
§ 192.160
Request for confidential treatment.
(a)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency makes all filings under this part available to the public, but may keep portions of the application for conversion confidential under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Requests for confidential treatment.
A savings association may request that the appropriate Federal banking agency keep portions of the savings association's application confidential. To make this request, the savings association must clearly designate as “confidential” any portion of its application for conversion that it deems confidential. The savings association must provide a written statement specifying the grounds supporting its request for confidentiality. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not treat as confidential the portion of a savings association's application describing how it plans to meet Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) objectives. The CRA portion of a savings association's application may not incorporate by reference information contained in the confidential portion of the application.
(c)
Determination of confidential treatment.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will determine whether confidential information must be made available to the public under 5 U.S.C. 552 and 12 CFR part 4 or 12 CFR part 309, as appropriate. The appropriate Federal banking agency will advise the savings association before it makes information designated as “confidential” available to the public.
§ 192.165
Amendments to an application for conversion.
To amend its application for conversion, a savings association must:
(a) File an amendment with an appropriate facing sheet;
(b) Number each amendment consecutively;
(c) Respond to all issues raised by the appropriate Federal banking agency; and
(d) Demonstrate that the amendment conforms to all applicable regulations.

# Notice of Filing of Application and Comment Process
§ 192.180
Public notice of an application for conversion.
(a)
In general.
A Federal savings association must publish a public notice of the application in accordance with the procedures in 12 CFR 5.8. The Federal savings association must simultaneously prominently post the notice in its home office and all branch offices and may also make this notice available on its website.
(b)
Additional notice.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency does not accept a savings association's application for conversion under § 192.200 and requires the savings association to file a new application, the savings association must publish and post a new notice and allow an additional 30 calendar days for comment.
§ 192.185
Public comment on application for conversion.
Commenters may submit comments on a Federal savings association's application in accordance with the procedures in 12 CFR 5.10.

# Agency Review of the Application for Conversion
§ 192.200
Review, approval, or denial of application for conversion.
(a)
Standards for review of application.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may approve an application for conversion only if:
(1) The conversion complies with this part;
(2) The savings association will meet its regulatory capital requirements under 12 CFR part 3 or part 324, as applicable, after the conversion; and
(3) The conversion will not result in a taxable reorganization under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(b)
Standards for review of appraisal.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the appraisal required by § 192.150(a)(2) in determining whether to approve the application. The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the appraisal under the following requirements.
(1) Independent persons experienced and expert in corporate appraisal, and acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency, must prepare the appraisal report.
(2) An affiliate of the appraiser may serve as an underwriter or selling agent, if the savings association ensures that the appraiser is separate from the underwriter or selling agent affiliate and the underwriter or selling agent affiliate does not make recommendations or affect the appraisal.
(3) The appraiser may not receive any fee in connection with the conversion other than for appraisal services.
(4) The appraisal report must include a complete and detailed description of the elements of the appraisal, a justification for the appraisal methodology, and sufficient support for the conclusions.
(5) If the appraisal is based on a capitalization of the savings association's pro forma income, it must indicate the basis for determining the income to be derived from the sale of shares, and demonstrate that the earnings multiple used is appropriate, including future earnings growth assumptions.
(6) If the appraisal is based on a comparison of the savings association's shares with outstanding shares of existing stock associations, the existing stock associations must be reasonably comparable in size, market area, competitive conditions, risk profile, profit history, and expected future earnings.
(7) The appropriate Federal banking agency may decline to process the application for conversion and deem it materially deficient or substantially incomplete if the initial appraisal report is materially deficient or substantially incomplete.
(8) A savings association may not represent or imply that the appropriate Federal banking agency approved the appraisal.
(c)
Compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the savings association's compliance record under 12 CFR part 25 and its business plan to determine how the savings association will serve the convenience and needs of its communities after the conversion.
(1) Based on this review, the appropriate Federal banking agency may approve the application, deny the application, or approve the application on the condition that the savings association will improve its CRA performance or that the savings association will address the particular credit or lending needs of the communities that it will serve.
(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency may deny the application if the savings association's business plan does not demonstrate that its proposed use of conversion proceeds will help the savings association to meet the credit and lending needs of the communities that it will serve.
(d)
Additional information.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may request that a savings association amend its application if further explanation is necessary, material is missing, or material needs correction.
(e)
Denial of application.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will deny an application if the application does not meet the requirements of this subpart, unless the appropriate Federal banking agency waives the requirement under § 192.5(c).
[85 FR 42643, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 22068, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 192.205
Court review of final action on application for conversion.
(a)
In general.
Any person aggrieved by the appropriate Federal banking agency's final action on a savings association's application for conversion may ask the court of appeals of the United States for the circuit in which the principal office or residence of such person is located, or the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, to review the action under 12 U.S.C. 1464(i)(2)(B).
(b)
Filing procedures.
To obtain court review of the action, this statute requires the aggrieved person to file a written petition requesting that the court modify, terminate, or set aside the final appropriate Federal banking agency action. The aggrieved person must file the petition with the court within the later of 30 calendar days after the appropriate Federal agency publishes notice of its final action in the
Federal Register
or 30 calendar days after the savings association mails the proxy statement to its members under § 192.235.

# Vote by Members
§ 192.225
Approval of plan of conversion by members.
(a)
In general.
After the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a plan of conversion, the savings association must submit the plan of conversion to its members for approval. The savings association must obtain this approval at a meeting of its members, which may be a special or annual meeting, unless the savings association is State-chartered and State law requires approval via an annual meeting.
(b)
Approval.
The savings association's members must approve the plan of conversion by a majority of the total outstanding votes, unless the savings association is State-chartered and State law prescribes a higher percentage.
(c)
Voting method.
Savings association members may vote in person or by proxy.
(d)
Notification to non-voting members.
The savings association may notify eligible account holders or supplemental eligible account holders who are not voting members of its proposed conversion. The savings association may include only the information in § 192.135 in its notice.
§ 192.230
Members' voting eligibility.
A savings association determines members' eligibility to vote by setting a voting record date. The savings association must set a voting record date that is not more than 60 calendar days nor less than 20 calendar days before its meeting, unless the savings association is State-chartered and State law requires a different voting record date.
§ 192.235
Notice of members' meeting.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must notify its members of the meeting to consider its conversion by sending the members a proxy statement cleared by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(b)
Timing of notice.
The savings association must notify its members 20 to 45 calendar days before the meeting, unless the savings association is State-chartered and State law requires a different notice period.
(c)
Notice to beneficial account holders.
The savings association must also notify each beneficial holder of an account held in a fiduciary capacity:
(1) If the savings association is a Federal savings association, and the name of the beneficial holder is disclosed on the savings association's records; or
(2) If the savings association is a State-chartered savings association and the beneficial holder possesses voting rights under State law.
§ 192.240
Submission of documents to the appropriate Federal banking agency after the members' meeting.
(a)
Filings after members' meeting.
Promptly after the members' meeting, a savings association must file all of the following information with the appropriate OCC licensing office, if the savings association is Federally-chartered, and with the appropriate FDIC region if the savings association is State-chartered.
(1) A certified copy of each adopted resolution on the conversion.
(2) The total votes eligible to be cast.
(3) The total votes represented in person or by proxy.
(4) The total votes cast in favor of and against each matter.
(5) The percentage of votes necessary to approve each matter.
(6) An opinion of counsel that the savings association conducted the members' meeting in compliance with all applicable State or Federal laws and regulations.
(b)
Filing after conversion.
Promptly after completion of the conversion, the savings association must submit an
opinion of counsel that it complied with all laws applicable to the conversion.

# Proxy Solicitation
§ 192.250
Compliance with proxy solicitation provisions.
(a)
Savings association compliance.
A savings association must comply with these proxy solicitation provisions when it provides proxy solicitation material to members for the meeting to vote on the plan of conversion.
(b)
Member compliance.
Members of the savings association must comply with these proxy solicitation provisions when they provide proxy solicitation materials to members for the meeting to vote on the conversion, pursuant to § 192.280, except where:
(1) The member solicits 50 people or fewer and does not solicit proxies on the savings association's behalf; or
(2) The member solicits proxies through newspaper advertisements after the savings association's board of directors adopts the plan of conversion. Any newspaper advertisements may include only the following information:
(i) The name of the savings association;
(ii) The reason for the advertisement;
(iii) The proposal or proposals to be voted upon;
(iv) Where a member may obtain a copy of the proxy solicitation material; and
(v) A request for the savings association's members to vote at the meeting.
§ 192.255
Form of proxy requirements.
The form of proxy must include all of the following:
(a) A statement in bold face type stating that management is soliciting the proxy.
(b) Blank spaces where the member must date and sign the proxy.
(c) Clear and impartial identification of each matter or group of related matters that members will vote upon. The savings association must include any proposed charitable contribution as an item to be voted on separately.
(d) The phrase “Revocable Proxy” in bold face type (at least 18 point).
(e) A description of any charter or State law requirement that restricts or conditions votes by proxy.
(f) An acknowledgment that the member received a proxy statement before he or she signed the form of proxy.
(g) The date, time, and the place of the meeting, when available.
(h) A way for the member to specify by ballot whether he or she approves or disapproves of each matter that members will vote upon.
(i) A statement that management will vote the proxy in accordance with the member's specifications.
(j) A statement in bold face type indicating how management will vote the proxy if the member does not specify a choice for a matter.
§ 192.260
Previously executed proxies.
A savings association may not use previously executed proxies for the plan of conversion vote. If members consider the plan of conversion at an annual meeting, the savings association may vote proxies obtained through other proxy solicitations only on matters not related to the plan of conversion.
§ 192.265
Proxies executed under this part.
A savings association may vote a proxy obtained under this part on matters that are incidental to the conduct of the meeting. The savings association may not vote a proxy obtained under this subpart at any meeting other than the meeting (or any adjournment of the meeting) to vote on the plan of conversion.
§ 192.270
Proxy statement requirements.
(a)
Content requirements.
A savings association must prepare its proxy statement in compliance with this part and Form PS.
(b)
Other requirements.
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the proxy solicitation material when it reviews the application for conversion and will clear the proxy solicitation material.
(2) The savings association must provide a cleared written proxy statement to its members before or at the same time it provides any other soliciting
material. The savings association must mail cleared proxy solicitation material to its members within 10 calendar days after the appropriate Federal banking agency clears the solicitation.
§ 192.275
Filing revised proxy materials.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must file revised proxy solicitation materials as an amendment to its application for conversion. The proxy solicitation materials must be in the form in which it furnished the materials to its members.
(b)
Content of filing.
To revise its proxy solicitation materials, the savings association must file:
(1) Its revised proxy materials as required by Form PS;
(2) Its revised form of proxy, if applicable;
(3) Any additional proxy solicitation material subject to § 192.270; and
(4) A copy of the revised proxy solicitation materials marked to clearly indicate changes from the prior filing.
(c)
When to file.
The savings association must file no later than the date that it sends or gives the proxy solicitation material to its members. The savings association must indicate the date that it will release the materials.
(d)
Material not required to be filed.
Unless requested by the appropriate Federal banking agency, the savings association does not have to file copies of replies to inquiries from its members or copies of communications that merely request members to sign and return proxy forms.
§ 192.280
Mailing member's proxy solicitation materials.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must mail the member's cleared proxy solicitation material if:
(1) The savings association's board of directors adopted a plan of conversion;
(2) A member requests in writing that the savings association mail the proxy solicitation material;
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agency has cleared the member's proxy solicitation; and
(4) The member agrees to defray the savings association's reasonable expenses.
(b)
Required information.
As soon as practicable after the savings association receives a request under paragraph (a) of this section, it must mail or otherwise furnish the following information to the member:
(1) The approximate number of members that the savings association solicited or will solicit, or the approximate number of members of any group of account holders that the member designates; and
(2) The estimated cost of mailing the proxy solicitation material for the member.
(c)
Timing.
The savings association must mail cleared proxy solicitation material to the designated members promptly after the member furnishes the materials, envelopes (or other containers), and postage (or payment for postage) to the savings association.
(d)
Content.
The savings association is not responsible for the content of a member's proxy solicitation material.
(e)
Sharing of proxy material.
A member may furnish other members its own proxy solicitation material, cleared by the appropriate Federal banking agency, subject to the rules in this section.
§ 192.285
Prohibited solicitations.
(a)
False or misleading statements.
(1) No one may use proxy solicitation material for the members' meeting if the material contains any statement which, considering the time and the circumstances of the statement:
(i) Is false or misleading with respect to any material fact;
(ii) Omits any material fact that is necessary to make the statements not false or misleading; or
(iii) Omits any material fact that is necessary to correct a statement in an earlier communication that has become false or misleading.
(2) No one may represent or imply that the appropriate Federal banking agency determined that the proxy solicitation material is accurate, complete, not false or not misleading, or passed upon the merits of or approved any proposal.
(b)
Other prohibited solicitations.
No person may solicit:
(1) An undated or post-dated proxy;
(2) A proxy that states it will be dated after the date it is signed by a member;
(3) A proxy that is not revocable at will by the member; or
(4) A proxy that is part of another document or instrument.
§ 192.290
Remedial measures for prohibited solicitations.
(a)
In general.
If a solicitation violates § 192.285, the appropriate Federal banking agency may require remedial measures, including:
(1) Correction of the violation by a retraction and a new solicitation;
(2) Rescheduling the members' meeting; or
(3) Any other actions necessary to ensure a fair vote.
(b)
Other action.
The appropriate Federal banking agency also may bring an enforcement action against the violator.
§ 192.295
Re-solicitation of proxies.
If a savings association amends its application for conversion, the appropriate Federal banking agency may require the savings association to re-solicit proxies for its members' meeting as a condition of approval of the amendment.

# Offering Circular
§ 192.300
Offering circular requirements.
(a)
Content and filing requirements.
A savings association must prepare and file its offering circular in compliance with this part, Form OC, and the applicable SEC registration statement form required under 12 CFR 16.15. A Federal savings association must file its offering circular with the appropriate OCC licensing office and a State savings association must file its offering circular with the appropriate FDIC region. If filing an amendment, the savings association also must comply with §§ 192.155 and 192.165.
(b)
Member approval.
A savings association must condition its stock offering upon member approval of its plan of conversion.
(c)
Agency review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will review the offering circular and may comment on the included disclosures and financial statements. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not approve the adequacy or accuracy of the offering circular or the disclosures.
(d)
Revised filings.
A savings association must file any revised offering circular, final offering circular, and any post-effective amendment to the final offering circular in accordance with the procedures in §§ 192.155 and 192.165.
(e)
Request for effectiveness.
After a savings association satisfactorily addresses the appropriate Federal banking agency's comments, the savings association must request that the appropriate Federal banking agency declare the offering circular effective for a time period. The time period may not exceed the maximum time period for the completion of the sale of all of the savings association's shares under § 192.400.
§ 192.305
Distribution of offering circular.
(a)
Preliminary offering circular.
A savings association may distribute a preliminary offering circular at the same time as or after it mails the proxy statement to its members.
(b)
Early distribution prohibited.
A savings association may not distribute a final offering circular for stock issued in the transaction until after the appropriate Federal banking agency declares the offering circular effective or the Securities and Exchange Commission declares the registration statement for the offering circular effective. The savings association must have the offering circular delivered in accordance with this part.
(c)
Effective offering circular.
A savings association must distribute a final offering circular for stock issued in the transaction to persons listed in its plan of conversion within 10 calendar days after the appropriate Federal banking agency declares the offering circular effective or the Securities and Exchange Commission declares the registration statement for the offering circular effective.
§ 192.310
Filing a post-effective amendment to an offering circular.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must file a post-effective amendment
to the offering circular with the appropriate Federal banking agency or have its proposed stock holding company file a post-effective amendment to its registration statement for the offering circular with the Securities and Exchange Commission, when a material event or change of circumstances occurs.
(b)
Timing of delivery.
After the appropriate Federal banking agency or the Securities and Exchange Commission declares the post-effective amendment effective, the savings association must immediately have the amendment to the offering circular delivered to each person who subscribed for or ordered shares in the offering.
(c)
Content.
The post-effective amendment must indicate that each person may increase, decrease, or rescind their subscription or order.
(d)
Post-effective offering period.
The post-effective offering period must remain open no less than 10 calendar days nor more than 20 calendar days, unless the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a longer rescission period.

# Offers and Sales of Stock
§ 192.320
Order of priority to purchase conversion shares.
A savings association must offer to sell its shares in the following order:
(a) Eligible account holders.
(b) Tax-qualified employee stock ownership plans.
(c) Supplemental eligible account holders.
(d) Other voting members who have subscription rights.
(e) The savings association's community, its community and the general public, or the general public.
§ 192.325
Timing of offer to sell conversion shares.
(a)
In general.
A savings association may offer to sell its conversion shares after the appropriate Federal banking agency approves the conversion, clears the proxy statement, and declares the offering circular effective.
(b)
Timing.
The offer may commence at the same time the savings association starts the proxy solicitation of its members.
§ 192.330
Pricing of conversion shares.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must sell its conversion shares at a uniform price per share and at a total price that is equal to the estimated pro forma market value of its shares after the conversion.
(b)
Maximum price.
The maximum price must be no more than 15 percent above the midpoint of the estimated price range in the savings association's offering circular.
(c)
Minimum price.
The minimum price must be no more than 15 percent below the midpoint of the estimated price range in the savings association's offering circular.
(d)
Increase in price.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency permits, the savings association may increase the maximum price of conversion shares sold. The maximum price, as adjusted, must be no more than 15 percent above the maximum price computed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Price range.
The maximum price must be between $5 and $50 per share.
(f)
Inclusion in preliminary offering circular.
The savings association must include the estimated price in any preliminary offering circular.
§ 192.335
Procedures for the sale of conversion shares.
(a)
Distribution of order forms.
A savings association must distribute order forms to all eligible account holders, supplemental eligible account holders, and other voting members to enable them to subscribe for the conversion shares they are permitted under the plan of conversion. The savings association may either send the order forms with its offering circular or after the savings association distributes its offering circular.
(b)
Sale of shares.
A savings association may sell its conversion shares in a community offering, a public offering, or both. The savings association may begin the community offering, the public offering, or both at any time during the subscription offering or upon conclusion of the subscription offering.
(c)
Underwriting commissions and fees.
A savings association may pay underwriting commissions (including underwriting discounts). The appropriate Federal banking agency may object to
the payment of unreasonable commissions. The savings association may reimburse an underwriter for accountable expenses in a subscription offering if the public offering is limited. If no public offering occurs, the savings association may pay an underwriter a consulting fee. The appropriate Federal banking agency may object to the payment of unreasonable consulting fees.
(d)
Sequence of order fulfillment.
If a savings association conducts the community offering, the public offering, or both at the same time as the subscription offering, the savings association must fill all subscription orders first.
(e)
Preparation of order form.
A savings association must prepare its order form in compliance with this part and Form OF.
§ 192.340
Prohibited sales practices.
(a)
Offers, sales, or purchases of conversion shares.
In connection with offers, sales, or purchases of conversion shares under this part, a savings association and its directors, officers, agents, or employees may not:
(1) Employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
(2) Obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission of a material fact necessary to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or
(3) Engage in any act, transaction, practice, or course of business that operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon a purchaser or seller.
(b)
Conversion.
During the conversion, no person may:
(1) Transfer, or enter into any agreement or understanding to transfer, the legal or beneficial ownership of subscription rights for the savings association's conversion shares or the underlying securities to the account of another;
(2) Make any offer, or any announcement of an offer, to purchase any of the savings association's conversion shares from anyone but the savings association; or
(3) Knowingly acquire more than the maximum purchase allowable under the savings association's plan of conversion.
(c)
Exceptions.
The restrictions in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to offers for more than 10 percent of any class of conversion shares by:
(1) An underwriter or a selling group, acting on the savings association's behalf, that makes the offer with a view toward public resale; or
(2) One or more of the savings association's tax-qualified employee stock ownership plans so long as the plan or plans do not beneficially own more than 25 percent of any class of the savings association's equity securities in the aggregate.
(d)
Violations.
Any person found to have violated the restrictions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may become subject to an enforcement action, civil money penalties, criminal prosecution, or other legal action.
§ 192.345
Permissible forms of subscriber payment.
(a)
In general.
A subscriber may purchase conversion shares with cash, by a withdrawal from a savings account, or a withdrawal from a certificate of deposit. If a subscriber purchases shares by a withdrawal from a certificate of deposit, the savings association may not assess a penalty for the withdrawal.
(b)
Prohibition.
A savings association may not extend credit to any person to purchase the savings association's conversion shares.
§ 192.350
Interest on payments for conversion shares.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must pay interest from the date the savings association receives a payment for conversion shares until the date the savings association completes or terminates the conversion. The savings association must pay interest at no less than its passbook rate for amounts paid in cash, check, or money order.
(b)
Interest on withdrawals from savings accounts.
If a subscriber withdraws money from a savings account to purchase conversion shares, the savings association must pay interest on the payment until the savings association completes or terminates the conversion as if the withdrawn amount remained in the account.
(c)
Interest on withdrawals from certificates of deposit.
If a depositor fails to maintain the applicable minimum balance requirement because he or she withdraws money from a certificate of deposit to purchase conversion shares, the savings association may cancel the certificate and pay interest at no less than its passbook rate on any remaining balance.
§ 192.355
Subscription rights for eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders.
(a)
Eligible account holders.
A savings association must give each eligible account holder subscription rights to purchase conversion shares in an amount equal to the greater of:
(1) The maximum purchase limitation established for the community offering or the public offering under § 192.395;
(2) One-tenth of one percent of the total stock offering; or
(3) Fifteen times the following number: The total number of conversion shares that the savings association will issue, multiplied by the following fraction. The numerator is the total qualifying deposit of the eligible account holder. The denominator is the total qualifying deposits of all eligible account holders. The savings association must round down the product of this multiplied fraction to the next whole number.
(b)
Supplemental eligible account holders.
The savings association must give subscription rights to purchase shares to each supplemental eligible account holder in the same amount as described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the savings association must compute the fraction described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section as follows: The numerator is the total qualifying deposit of the supplemental eligible account holder. The denominator is the total qualifying deposits of all supplemental eligible account holders.
§ 192.360
Officers, directors, and associates as eligible account holders.
A savings association's officers, directors, and their associates may be eligible account holders. However, if an officer, director, or his or her associate receives subscription rights based on increased deposits in the year before the eligibility record date, the savings association must subordinate subscription rights for these deposits to subscription rights exercised by other eligible account holders.
§ 192.365
Purchase of conversion shares by other voting members.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must give rights to purchase its conversion shares in the conversion to voting members who are neither eligible account holders nor supplemental eligible account holders. The savings association must allocate rights to each voting member that are equal to the greater of:
(1) The maximum purchase limitation established for the community offering and the public offering under § 192.395; or
(2) One-tenth of one percent of the total stock offering.
(b)
Subordination of voting rights.
The savings association must subordinate the voting members' rights to the rights of eligible account holders, tax-qualified employee stock ownership plans, and supplemental eligible account holders.
§ 192.370
Limits on aggregate purchases by officers, directors, and associates.
(a)
In general.
When a savings association converts, its officers, directors, and their associates may not purchase, in the aggregate, more than the following percentage of the savings association's total stock offering:
Table 1 to § 192.370(
a
)
Institution size
Officer and
director
purchases
(percent)
$50,000,000 or less
35
$50,000,001-100,000,000
34
$100,000,001-150,000,000
33
$150,000,001-200,000,000
32
$200,000,001-250,000,000
31
$250,000,001-300,000,000
30
$300,000,001-350,000,000
29
$350,000,001-400,000,000
28
$400,000,001-450,000,000
27
$450,000,001-500,000,000
26
Over $500,000,000
25
(b)
Exception.
The purchase limitations in this section do not apply to shares held in tax-qualified employee
stock benefit plans that are attributable to the savings association's officers, directors, and their associates.
§ 192.375
Allocation of oversubscribed conversion shares.
(a)
Eligible account holders.
If a savings association's conversion shares are oversubscribed by its eligible account holders, the savings association must allocate shares among the eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.
(b)
Supplemental eligible account holders.
If a savings association's conversion shares are oversubscribed by its supplemental eligible account holders, the savings association must allocate shares among the supplemental eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.
(c)
Eligible and supplemental eligible account holders.
If a person is an eligible account holder and a supplemental eligible account holder, the savings association must include the eligible account holder's allocation in determining the number of conversion shares that the savings association may allocate to the person as a supplemental eligible account holder.
(d)
Additional allocations.
For conversion shares that the savings association does not allocate under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the savings association must allocate the shares among the eligible or supplemental eligible account holders equitably, based on the amounts of qualifying deposits. The savings association must describe this method of allocation in its plan of conversion.
(e)
Oversubscription.
If shares remain after the savings association has allocated shares as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and if the savings association's voting members oversubscribe, the savings association must allocate its conversion shares among those members equitably. The savings association must describe the method of allocation in its plan of conversion.
§ 192.380
Purchase of conversion shares by employee stock ownership plan.
(a)
In general.
A savings association's tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan may purchase up to 10 percent of the total offering of the savings association's conversion shares.
(b)
Revised stock valuation range.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency approves a revised stock valuation range as described in § 192.330(e), and the final conversion stock valuation range exceeds the former maximum stock offering range, a savings association may allocate conversion shares to its tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan, up to the 10 percent limit in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Open market purchase.
If a savings association's tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan is not able to or chooses not to purchase stock in the offering, it may, with prior appropriate Federal banking agency approval and appropriate disclosure in the savings association's offering circular, purchase stock in the open market, or purchase authorized but unissued conversion shares.
(d)
Charitable organizations.
A savings association may include stock contributed to a charitable organization in the conversion in the calculation of the total offering of conversion shares under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agency objects on supervisory grounds.
§ 192.385
Purchase limitations.
(a)
In general.
A savings association may limit the number of shares that any person, group of associated persons, or persons otherwise acting in concert, may subscribe to up to five percent of the total stock sold.
(b)
Modification of purchase limit.
If a savings association sets a limit of five percent under paragraph (a) of this section, the savings association may modify that limit with appropriate Federal banking agency approval to provide that any person, group of associated persons, or persons otherwise acting in concert subscribing for five percent, may purchase between five and 10 percent as long as the aggregate amount that the subscribers purchase does not
exceed 10 percent of the total stock offering.
(c)
Minimum purchase.
A savings association may require persons exercising subscription rights to purchase a minimum number of conversion shares. The minimum number of shares must equal the lesser of the number of shares obtained by a $500 subscription or 25 shares.
(d)
Aggregation.
In setting purchase limitations under this section, a savings association may not aggregate conversion shares attributed to a person in the savings association's tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan with shares purchased directly by, or otherwise attributable to, that person.
§ 192.390
Community offering of conversion shares.
(a)
Purchase preference in subscription offering.
In a subscription offering, a savings association may give a purchase preference to eligible account holders, supplemental eligible account holders, and voting members residing in its local community.
(b)
Purchase preference in community offering.
In a community offering, a savings association must give a purchase preference to natural persons residing in its local community.
§ 192.395
Other conditions for community and public offerings.
A savings association must offer and sell its stock to achieve a widespread distribution of the stock. If a savings association offers shares in a community offering, a public offering, or both, it must first fill orders for its stock up to a maximum of two percent of the conversion stock on a basis that will promote a widespread distribution of stock. The savings association must allocate any remaining shares on an equal number of shares per order basis until it fills all orders.

# Completion of the Offering
§ 192.400
Time period for completion of sale of stock.
A savings association must complete all sales of its stock within 45 calendar days after the last day of the subscription period, unless the offering is extended under § 192.405.
§ 192.405
Extension of the offering period.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must submit a request in writing to the appropriate Federal banking agency for an extension of any offering period. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not grant any single extension of more than 90 calendar days.
(b)
Post-effective amendment to offering circular.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency grants a savings association's request for an extension of time, the savings association must provide a post-effective amendment to the offering circular under § 192.310 to each person who subscribed for or ordered stock. The amendment must indicate that the appropriate Federal banking agency extended the offering period and that each person who subscribed for or ordered stock may increase, decrease, or rescind their subscription or order within the time remaining in the extension period.

# Completion of the Conversion
§ 192.420
Time period for completion of conversion.
In its plan of conversion, a savings association must set a date by which the conversion must be completed. This date must not be more than 24 months from the date that the savings association's members approve the plan of conversion. The date, once set, may not be extended by the savings association or by the appropriate Federal banking agency. The savings association must terminate the conversion if it is not completed by that date. The conversion is complete on the date that the savings association accepts the offers for its stock.
§ 192.425
Termination of conversion.
A conversion may be terminated by:
(a) A savings association's members failing to approve the conversion at its members' meeting;
(b) A savings association before its members' meeting; or
(c) A savings association after the members' meeting, but only if the appropriate Federal banking agency concurs.
§ 192.430
Charter amendments.
(a)
Conversion from Federally-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank to Federally-chartered stock savings association or savings bank.
If the savings association is a Federally-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank and it converts to a Federally-chartered stock savings association or savings bank, it must apply to the OCC to amend its charter and bylaws consistent with 12 CFR 5.22, as part of the savings association's application for conversion. The savings association may only include OCC pre-approved anti-takeover provisions in its amended charter and bylaws.
See
12 CFR 5.22(g)(7).
(b)
Conversion from Federally-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank to State-chartered stock savings association or savings bank.
If the savings association is a Federally-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank and is converting to a State-chartered stock savings association under this part, the savings association must surrender its charter to the OCC for cancellation promptly after the State issues its new State stock charter. The savings association must promptly file a copy of its new State stock charter with the FDIC.
(c)
Conversion from State-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank to Federally State-chartered stock savings association or savings bank.
If the savings association is a State-chartered mutual savings association or savings bank, and is converting to a Federally chartered stock savings association or savings bank, it must apply to the OCC for a new charter and bylaws consistent with 12 CFR 5.22. The savings association may only include OCC pre-approved anti-takeover provisions in its charter and bylaws.
See
12 CFR 5.22(g)(7).
(d)
Priority of accounts.
In any conversion described in this section that involves a mutual holding company, the charter of each resulting subsidiary savings association of the holding company must contain the following provision:
In any situation in which the priority of the accounts of the association is in controversy, all such accounts must, to the extent of their withdrawable value, be debts of the association having the same priority as the claims of general creditors of the association not having priority (other than any priority arising or resulting from consensual subordination) over other general creditors of the association.
(e)
Liquidation account.
The savings association's new or amended charter must require the savings association to establish and maintain a liquidation account for eligible and supplemental eligible account holders under § 192.450.
§ 192.435
Corporate existence after conversion.
A savings association's corporate existence will continue following its conversion, unless it converts to a State-chartered stock savings association and State law prescribes otherwise.
§ 192.440
Stockholder voting rights after conversion.
A savings association must provide its stockholders with exclusive voting rights, except as provided in § 192.445(c).
§ 192.445
Savings account holder's account after conversion.
(a)
In general.
The savings association must provide each savings account holder, without payment, a withdrawable savings account or accounts in the same amount and under the same terms and conditions as their accounts before the conversion.
(b)
Liquidation account.
The savings association must provide a liquidation account for each eligible and supplemental eligible account holder under § 192.450.
(c)
Voting rights.
If the savings association is State-chartered and State law requires the savings association to provide voting rights to savings account holders or borrowers, the charter must:
(1) Limit these voting rights to the minimum required by State law; and
(2) Require the savings association to solicit proxies from the savings account holders and borrowers in the
same manner that the savings association solicits proxies from its stockholders.

# Liquidation Account
§ 192.450
Liquidation accounts.
(a)
In general.
A liquidation account represents the potential interest of eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders in the savings association's net worth at the time of conversion. A savings association must maintain a sub-account to reflect the interest of each account holder.
(b)
Distribution of liquidation.
Before a savings association may provide a liquidation distribution to common stockholders, it must give a liquidation distribution to those eligible account holders and supplemental eligible account holders who hold savings accounts from the time of conversion until liquidation.
(c)
Recording of liquidation account in financial statements.
A savings association may not record the liquidation account in its financial statements. The savings association must disclose the liquidation account in the footnotes to the savings association's financial statements.
§ 192.455
Initial balance of liquidation account.
The initial balance of the liquidation account is the savings association's net worth in the statement of financial condition included in the final offering circular.
§ 192.460
Initial balance of liquidation sub-account.
(a)
General rule.
(1) A savings association must calculate the initial liquidation sub-account balance of each eligible and supplemental eligible account holder at the time of the conversion.
(2) The initial liquidation sub-account balance for a savings account held by an eligible account holder, for a savings account not held by the eligible account holder on the supplemental eligibility record date, is calculated by multiplying the initial liquidation account balance by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the eligibility record date and the denominator is the calculation in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(3) The initial liquidation sub-account balance for a savings account held by a supplemental eligible account holder, for a savings account not held by the supplemental eligible account holder on the eligibility record date, is calculated by multiplying the initial liquidation account balance by the following fraction: The numerator is the qualifying deposit in the savings account on the supplemental eligibility record date and the denominator is the calculation in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(4) For a savings account held on both the eligibility record date and the supplemental eligibility record date, the amount of the qualifying deposit for calculating the initial liquidation sub-account is the higher account balance of the savings account on either the eligibility record date or the supplemental eligibility record date. The initial liquidation sub-account balance is calculated by multiplying the liquidation account balance by the following fraction: The numerator is the higher amount of the qualifying deposit in the savings account on either the eligibility record date or the supplemental eligibility record date and the denominator is the calculation in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) The denominator for calculating the initial liquidation sub-account balance of each eligible and supplemental eligible account holder is the sum of the numerator calculations in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.
(b)
Balance increases and decreases.
A savings association must not increase the initial liquidation and sub-account balances. It must decrease the initial liquidation account and the sub-account balances under § 192.470 as depositors reduce or close their savings accounts.
§ 192.465
Retention of voting rights based on liquidation sub-accounts.
Eligible account holders or supplemental eligible account holders do not retain any voting rights based on their liquidation sub-accounts.
§ 192.470
Required adjustments to liquidation sub-accounts.
(a)
Reductions.
(1) A savings association must reduce the balance of an eligible account holder's or supplemental eligible account holder's liquidation sub-account if the deposit balance in the account holder's savings account at the close of business on any annual closing date, which for purposes of this section is the savings association's fiscal year end, falls below the lesser of:
(i) The deposit balance in the account holder's savings account as of the relevant eligibility record date; or
(ii) The deposit balance in the account holder's savings account as of its lowest balance as of any subsequent annual closing date.
(2) The reduction in the account holder's liquidation sub-account from its balance at the time of conversion must be proportionate to the reduction in the account holder's savings account from its balance at the time of conversion.
(b)
Prohibition on increases.
If a savings association reduces the balance of a liquidation sub-account, it may not subsequently increase it if the deposit balance increases.
(c)
Liquidation account adjustments.
A savings association is not required to adjust the liquidation account and sub-account balances at each annual closing date if the savings association maintains sufficient records to make the computations if a liquidation subsequently occurs.
(d)
Maintenance of liquidation sub-account.
A savings association must maintain the liquidation sub-account for each account holder as long as the account holder maintains an account with the same social security number.
(e)
Complete liquidation.
If there is a complete liquidation, the savings association must provide the account holder of a liquidation sub-account with a liquidation distribution in the amount of the account holder's remaining liquidation sub-account balance.
§ 192.475
Definition of liquidation.
(a)
In general.
A liquidation is a sale of a savings association's assets and settlement of its liabilities with the intent to cease operations and close. Upon liquidation, a savings association must return its charter to the governmental agency that issued it. The government agency must cancel the savings association's charter.
(b)
Other transactions.
A merger, consolidation, or similar combination or transaction with another depository institution, is not a liquidation. If a savings association is involved in such a transaction, the surviving institution must assume the liquidation account.
§ 192.480
Effect of liquidation account on net worth.
The liquidation account does not affect a savings association's net worth.
§ 192.485
Required liquidation account provision in new Federal charter.
If a savings association converts to Federal stock form, it must include the following provision in its new charter: “Liquidation Account. Under appropriate Federal banking agency regulations, the association must establish and maintain a liquidation account for the benefit of its savings account holders as of ______. If the association undergoes a complete liquidation, it must comply with appropriate Federal banking agency regulations with respect to the amount and priorities on liquidation of each of the savings account holder's interests in the liquidation account. A savings account holder's interest in the liquidation account does not entitle the savings account holder to any voting rights.”

# Post-Conversion
§ 192.500
Permissible management stock benefit plans after conversion.
(a)
In general.
During the 12 months after its conversion, a savings association may implement a stock option plan (Option Plan), an employee stock ownership plan or other tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan (collectively, ESOP), and a management recognition plan (MRP), provided that the savings association meets all of the following requirements:
(1) The savings association discloses the plans in its proxy statement and offering circular and indicates in its offering circular that there will be a separate shareholder vote on the Option Plan and the MRP at least six months
after the conversion. No shareholder vote is required to implement the ESOP. The savings association's ESOP must be tax-qualified.
(2) The savings association's Option Plan does not encompass more than 10 percent of the number of shares that the savings association issued in the conversion.
(3)(i) The savings association's ESOP and MRP do not encompass, in the aggregate, more than 10 percent of the number of shares that the savings association issued in the conversion. If the savings association has tangible capital of 10 percent or more following the conversion, the appropriate Federal banking agency may permit the ESOP and MRP to encompass, in the aggregate, up to 12 percent of the number of shares issued in the conversion; and
(ii) The savings association's MRP does not encompass more than three percent of the number of shares that the savings association issued in the conversion. If the savings association has tangible capital of 10 percent or more after the conversion, the appropriate Federal banking agency may permit the MRP to encompass up to four percent of the number of shares that the savings association issued in the conversion.
(4) No individual receives more than 25 percent of the shares under any plan.
(5) The savings association's directors who are not officers of the savings association do not receive more than five percent of the shares of the MRP or Option Plan individually, or 30 percent of any such plan in the aggregate.
(6) The savings association's shareholders approve each of the Option Plan and the MRP by a majority of the total votes eligible to be cast at a duly called meeting before the savings association establishes or implements the plan. The savings association may not hold this meeting until six months after its conversion.
(7) When the savings association distributes proxies or related material to shareholders in connection with the vote on a plan, the savings association states that the plan complies with the appropriate Federal banking agency's regulations and that the appropriate Federal banking agency does not endorse or approve the plan in any way. The savings association may not make any written or oral representations to the contrary.
(8) The savings association does not grant stock options at less than the market price at the time of grant.
(9) The savings association does not fund the Option Plan or the MRP at the time of the conversion.
(10) The savings association's plan does not begin to vest earlier than one year after shareholders approve the plan, and does not vest at a rate exceeding 20 percent per year.
(11) The savings association's plan permits accelerated vesting only for disability or death, or if the savings association undergoes a change of control.
(12) The savings association's plan provides that its executive officers or directors must exercise or forfeit their options in the event the institution becomes critically undercapitalized (as defined in 12 CFR 6.4 or 324.403, as applicable), is subject to appropriate Federal banking agency enforcement action, or receives a capital directive under 12 CFR part 6, subpart B or 12 CFR 308.201, as applicable.
(13) The savings association files a copy of the proposed Option Plan or MRP with the appropriate Federal banking agency and certify to such agency that the plan approved by the shareholders is the same plan that the savings association filed with, and disclosed in, the proxy materials distributed to shareholders in connection with the vote on the plan.
(14) The savings association files the plan and the certification with the appropriate Federal banking agency within five calendar days after its shareholders approve the plan.
(b)
Stock splits or other adjustments.
The savings association may provide dividend equivalent rights or dividend adjustment rights to allow for stock splits or other adjustments to its stock in the ESOP, MRP, and Option Plan.
(c)
Plans implemented more than 12 months after conversion.
The restrictions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to plans implemented more than 12 months after the conversion, provided that materials pertaining to any shareholder vote regarding such plans are not distributed within the 12
months after the conversion. If a plan adopted in conformity with paragraph (a) of this section is amended more than 12 months following the conversion, shareholders must ratify any material deviations to the requirements in paragraph (a).
§ 192.505
Restrictions on the trading of shares by directors, officers, and associates.
(a)
Sales restriction.
Directors and officers who purchase conversion shares may not sell the shares for one year after the date of purchase, except that in the event of the death of the officer or director, the successor in interest may sell the shares.
(b)
Notice of sales restriction on stock certificate.
The savings association must include notice of the restriction described in paragraph (a) of this section on each certificate of stock that a director or officer purchases during the conversion or receives in connection with a stock dividend, stock split, or otherwise with respect to such restricted shares.
(c)
Stock purchase restrictions.
For three years after the conversion, the savings association's officers, directors, and their associates may purchase the savings association's stock only from a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, the savings association's officers, directors, and their associates may engage in a negotiated transaction involving more than one percent of the savings association's outstanding stock, and may purchase stock through any of the savings association's management or employee stock benefit plans.
(d)
Communication of restrictions with transfer agent.
The savings association must instruct its stock transfer agent about the transfer restrictions in this section.
§ 192.510
Repurchase of shares after conversion.
(a)
Repurchases during first year after conversion.
A savings association may not repurchase its shares in the first year after the conversion except:
(1) In extraordinary circumstances, a savings association may make open market repurchases of up to five percent of its outstanding stock in the first year after the conversion if the savings association files a notice under § 192.515(a) and the appropriate Federal banking agency does not disapprove the repurchase. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not approve such repurchases unless the repurchase meets the standards in § 192.515(c), and the repurchase is consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) A savings association may repurchase qualifying shares of a director or conduct an appropriate Federal banking agency-approved repurchase pursuant to an offer made to all shareholders of the savings association.
(3) Repurchases to fund management recognition plans that have been ratified by shareholders do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section. Repurchases in the first year to fund such plans require prior written notification to the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(4) Purchases to fund tax qualified employee stock benefit plans do not count toward the repurchase limitations in this section.
(b)
Repurchases following first year after conversion.
After the first year, a savings association may repurchase its shares, subject to all other applicable regulatory and supervisory restrictions and paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Restrictions on all repurchases.
All stock repurchases are subject to the following restrictions.
(1) A savings association may not repurchase its shares if the repurchase will reduce the savings association's regulatory capital below the amount required for its liquidation account under § 192.450. The savings association must comply with the capital distribution requirements at 12 CFR 5.55.
(2) The restrictions on share repurchases apply to a charitable organization under § 192.550. A savings association must aggregate purchases of shares by the charitable organization with the savings association's repurchases.
§ 192.515
Information to be filed with Federal banking agency prior to repurchase of shares.
(a)
Notice requirement.
To repurchase stock in the first year following conversion, other than repurchases under § 192.510(a)(3) or (4), a savings association must file a written notice with the appropriate OCC licensing office if Federally chartered, and with the appropriate FDIC region if State-chartered. The savings association must provide the following information:
(1) The proposed repurchase program;
(2) The effect of the repurchases on the savings association's regulatory capital; and
(3) The purpose of the repurchases and, if applicable, an explanation of the extraordinary circumstances necessitating the repurchases.
(b)
Filing of notice.
A Federal savings association must file its notice with the appropriate OCC licensing office, and a State savings association must file its notice with the appropriate regional director of the FDIC, at least 10 calendar days before the savings association begins its repurchase program.
(c)
Agency review.
A savings association may not repurchase its shares if the appropriate Federal banking agency objects to the repurchase program. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not object to a repurchase program if:
(1) The repurchase program will not adversely affect the savings association's financial condition;
(2) The savings association submits sufficient information to evaluate the proposed repurchases;
(3) The savings association demonstrates extraordinary circumstances and a compelling and valid business purpose for the share repurchases; and
(4) The repurchase program would not be contrary to other applicable regulations.
§ 192.520
Declaring and paying dividends after the conversion.
A savings association may declare or pay a dividend on its shares after the conversion if:
(a) The dividend will not reduce the savings association's regulatory capital below the amount required for the liquidation account under § 192.450;
(b) The savings association complies with all capital requirements under 12 CFR part 3 after it declares or pays dividends;
(c) The savings association complies with the capital distribution requirements under 12 CFR 5.55; and
(d) The savings association does not return any capital, other than ordinary dividends, to purchasers during the term of the business plan submitted with the conversion.
§ 192.525
Restrictions on acquisition of shares after conversion.
(a)
Prior agency approval.
For three years after conversion, no person may, directly or indirectly, acquire or offer to acquire the beneficial ownership of more than 10 percent of any class of the savings association's equity securities without the appropriate Federal banking agency's prior written approval. If a person violates this prohibition, the savings association may not permit the person to vote shares in excess of 10 percent, and may not count the shares in excess of 10 percent in any shareholder vote.
(b)
Beneficial ownership.
A person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10 percent of a class of shares when he or she holds any combination of the savings association's stock or revocable or irrevocable proxies under circumstances that give rise to a conclusive control determination or rebuttable control determination under 12 CFR 5.50. The appropriate Federal banking agency will presume that a person has acquired shares if the acquiror entered into a binding written agreement for the transfer of shares. For purposes of this section, an offer is made when it is communicated. An offer does not include non-binding expressions of understanding or letters of intent regarding the terms of a potential acquisition.
(c)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding the restrictions in this section:
(1) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to any offer with a view toward public resale made exclusively to the savings association, to the underwriters, or to a selling group acting on the savings association's behalf.
(2) Unless the appropriate Federal banking agency objects in writing, any person may offer or announce an offer to acquire up to one percent of any class of shares. In computing the one percent limit, the person must include all of his or her acquisitions of the same class of shares during the prior 12 months.
(3) A corporation whose ownership is, or will be, substantially the same as the savings association's ownership may acquire or offer to acquire more than 10 percent of the savings association's common stock, if it makes the offer or acquisition more than one year after the savings association's conversion.
(4) One or more of the savings association's tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans may acquire the savings association's shares, if the plan or plans do not beneficially own more than 25 percent of any class of the savings association's shares in the aggregate.
(5) An acquiror does not have to file a separate application to obtain the appropriate Federal banking agency's approval under paragraph (a) of this section if the acquiror files an application under 12 CFR 5.50 that specifically addresses the criteria listed under paragraph (d) of this section and the savings association does not oppose the proposed acquisition.
(d)
Factors for agency denial.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may deny an application under paragraph (a) of this section if the proposed acquisition:
(1) Is contrary to the purposes of this part;
(2) Is manipulative or deceptive;
(3) Subverts the fairness of the conversion;
(4) Is likely to injure the savings association;
(5) Is inconsistent with the savings association's plan to meet the credit and lending needs of its proposed market area;
(6) Otherwise violates laws or regulations; or
(7) Does not prudently deploy the savings association's conversion proceeds.
§ 192.530
Other post-conversion requirements.
After a savings association converts, it must:
(a) Promptly register its shares under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-78jj, as amended). The savings association may not deregister the shares for three years.
(b) Encourage and assist a market maker to establish and to maintain a market for its shares. A market maker for a security is a dealer who:
(1) Regularly publishes bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations for the security in a recognized inter-dealer quotation system;
(2) Furnishes bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations for the security on request; or
(3) May effect transactions for the security in reasonable quantities at quoted prices with other brokers or dealers.
(c) Use its best efforts to list its shares on a national or regional securities exchange or on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system.
(d) File all post-conversion reports that the appropriate Federal banking agency requires.

# Contributions to Charitable Organizations
§ 192.550
Donating conversion shares or conversion proceeds to a charitable organization.
A savings association may contribute some of its conversion shares or proceeds to a charitable organization if:
(a) The savings association's plan of conversion provides for the proposed contribution;
(b) The savings association's members approve the proposed contribution; and
(c) The IRS either has approved, or approves within two years after formation, the charitable organization as a tax-exempt charitable organization under the Internal Revenue Code.
§ 192.555
Member approval of charitable contributions.
At the meeting to consider the conversion, a savings association's members must separately approve, by a majority of the total eligible votes, a charitable contribution of conversion shares or proceeds. If the savings association is in mutual holding company form and adding a charitable contribution as part of a second step stock conversion, the savings association must also have its minority shareholders separately approve the charitable contribution by a majority of their total eligible votes.
§ 192.560
Limitations on charitable contributions.
A savings association may contribute a reasonable amount of conversion shares or proceeds to a charitable organization if such contribution will not exceed limits for charitable deductions under the Internal Revenue Code and the appropriate Federal banking agency does not object on supervisory grounds. If the savings association is well-capitalized, the appropriate Federal banking agency generally will not object if the savings association contributes an aggregate amount of eight percent or less of the conversion shares or proceeds.
§ 192.565
Contents of organizational documents of charitable organization.
The charitable organization's charter (or trust agreement) and gift instrument must provide that:
(a) The charitable organization's primary purpose is to serve and make grants in the savings association's local community;
(b) As long as the charitable organization controls shares, it must vote those shares in the same ratio as all other shares voted on each proposal considered by the savings association's shareholders;
(c) For at least five years after its organization, one seat on the charitable organization's board of directors (or board of trustees) is reserved for an independent director (or trustee) from the savings association's local community. This director may not be an officer, director, or employee of the savings association or of an affiliate of the savings association, and should have experience with local community charitable organizations and grant making; and
(d) For at least five years after its organization, one seat on the charitable organization's board of directors (or board of trustees) is reserved for a director from the savings association's board of directors or the board of directors of an acquiror or resulting institution in the event of a merger or acquisition of the savings association.
§ 192.570
Conflicts of interest among directors.
(a)
In general.
A person is subject to 12 CFR 163.200 if that person:
(1) Is a director, officer, or employee of the savings association; has the power to direct the savings association's management or policies; or otherwise owes a fiduciary duty to the savings association (for example, holding company directors); and
(2) Will serve as an officer, director, or employee of the charitable organization.
See
Form AC for further information on operating plans and conflict of interest plans.
(b)
Identification and recusal of directors.
Before the savings association's board of directors may adopt a plan of conversion that includes a charitable organization, the savings association must identify its directors that will serve on the charitable organization's board. These directors may not participate in the board's discussions concerning contributions to the charitable organization, and may not vote on the matter.
§ 192.575
Other requirements for charitable organizations.
(a)
Charter and gift instrument requirements.
The charitable organization's charter (or trust agreement) and the gift instrument for the contribution must provide that:
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency may examine the charitable organization at the charitable organization's expense;
(2) The charitable organization must comply with all supervisory directives that the appropriate Federal banking agency imposes;
(3) The charitable organization must operate according to written policies adopted by its board of directors (or board of trustees), including a conflict of interest policy;
(4) The charitable organization must not engage in self-dealing; and
(5) The charitable organization must comply with all laws necessary to maintain its tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code.
(b)
Stock certificate requirement.
The savings association must include the following legend in the stock certificates of shares that the savings association contributes to the charitable organization or that the charitable organization otherwise acquires: “The board of directors must consider the shares that this stock certificate represents as voted in the same ratio as all other shares voted on each proposal considered by the shareholders, as long as the shares are controlled by the charitable organization.”
(c)
Voting ratio.
As long as the charitable organization controls shares, the savings association must consider those shares as voted in the same ratio as all of the shares voted on each proposal considered by the savings association's shareholders.
(d)
Filing requirement.
After the savings association completes its stock offering, it must submit copies of the following documents to the appropriate OCC licensing office if it is a Federal savings association or with the appropriate FDIC region if it is a State savings association:
(1) The charitable organization's charter and bylaws (or trust agreement);
(2) The charitable organization's operating plan (within six months after the savings association's stock offering);
(3) The charitable organization's conflict of interest policy; and
(4) The gift instrument for the contributions of either stock or cash to the charitable organization.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Supervisory Conversions
§ 192.600
Voluntary supervisory conversions.
(a)
In general.
A savings association must comply with this subpart and part 16 to engage in a voluntary supervisory conversion. This subpart applies to all voluntary supervisory conversions under sections 5(i)(1), (i)(2), and (p) of HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1464(i)(1), (i)(2), and (p).
(b)
Application of subpart A.
Subpart A of this part also applies to a voluntary supervisory conversion, unless a requirement is clearly inapplicable.
§ 192.605
Conducting a voluntary supervisory conversion.
A savings association may conduct a voluntary supervisory conversion through one of the following methods:
(a) A savings association may sell its shares or the shares of a holding company to the public under the requirements of subpart A of this part.
(b) A savings association may convert to stock form by merging into an interim Federal- or State-chartered stock association.
(c) A savings association may sell its shares directly to an acquiror, who may be a person, company, depository institution, or depository institution holding company.
(d) A savings association may merge or consolidate with an existing or newly created depository institution. The merger or consolidation must be authorized by, and is subject to, other applicable laws and regulations.
§ 192.610
Member rights in a voluntary supervisory conversion.
Savings association members do not have the right to approve or participate in a voluntary supervisory conversion, and will not have any legal or beneficial ownership interests in the converted association, unless the appropriate Federal banking agency provides otherwise. Savings association members may have interests in a liquidation account, if one is established.

# Eligibility
§ 192.625
Eligibility for a voluntary supervisory conversion.
(a)
Eligibility.
An insured savings association may be eligible to convert under this subpart B if:
(1) The savings association is significantly undercapitalized (or undercapitalized and a standard conversion that would make the savings association adequately capitalized is not feasible) and the savings association will be a viable entity following the conversion;
(2) Severe financial conditions threaten the savings association's stability and a conversion is likely to improve its financial condition;
(3) The FDIC will assist the savings association under section 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1823; or
(4) The savings association is in receivership and a conversion will assist the savings association.
(b)
Requirements for viability after conversion.
The savings association will be a viable entity following the conversion if it satisfies all of the following:
(1) The savings association will be adequately capitalized as a result of the conversion;
(2) The savings association, its proposed conversion, and its acquiror(s) comply with applicable supervisory policies;
(3) The transaction is in the savings association's best interest, and the best interest of the Deposit Insurance Fund and the public; and
(4) The transaction will not injure or be detrimental to the savings association, the Deposit Insurance Fund, or the public interest.
§ 192.630
Eligibility of State-chartered savings bank for voluntary supervisory conversion.
A State-chartered savings bank may be eligible to convert to a Federal stock savings bank under this subpart if:
(a) The FDIC certifies under section 5(o)(2)(C) of the HOLA that severe financial conditions threaten the savings bank's stability and that the voluntary supervisory conversion is likely to improve its financial condition; or
(b) The savings bank meets the following conditions:
(1) The savings bank's liabilities exceed its assets, as calculated under generally accepted accounting principles, assuming the savings bank is a going concern; and
(2) The savings bank will issue a sufficient amount of permanent capital stock to meet its applicable FDIC capital requirement immediately upon completion of the conversion, or the FDIC determines that the savings bank will achieve an acceptable capital level within an acceptable time period.

# Plan of Supervisory Conversion
§ 192.650
Contents of plan of voluntary supervisory conversion.
A majority of the board of directors of the savings association must adopt a plan of voluntary supervisory conversion. The savings association must include all of the following information in its plan of voluntary supervisory conversion.
(a) The savings association's name and address.
(b) A complete description of the proposed voluntary supervisory conversion transaction that also describes plans for any liquidation account.
(c) Certified copies of all resolutions relating to the conversion adopted by the board of directors of the savings association.

# Voluntary Supervisory Conversion Application
§ 192.660
Contents of voluntary supervisory conversion application.
A savings association must include all of the following information and documents in a voluntary supervisory conversion application to the appropriate OCC licensing office if it is a Federal savings association and to the appropriate FDIC region if it is a State savings association under this subpart:
(a)
Eligibility.
(1) Evidence establishing that the savings association meets the eligibility requirements under § 192.625 or § 192.630.
(2) An opinion of qualified, independent counsel or an independent, certified public accountant regarding the tax consequences of the conversion, or an IRS ruling indicating that the
transaction qualifies as a tax-free reorganization.
(3) An opinion of independent counsel indicating that applicable State law authorizes the voluntary supervisory conversion, if the conversion involves a State-chartered savings association converting to State stock form.
(b)
Plan of conversion.
A plan of voluntary supervisory conversion that complies with § 192.650.
(c)
Business plan.
A business plan that complies with § 192.105, when required by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(d)
Financial data.
(1) The savings association's most recent audited financial statements and Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income or Call Report, as appropriate. The savings association must explain how its current capital levels make the savings association eligible to engage in a voluntary supervisory conversion under § 192.625 or § 192.630.
(2) A description of the savings association's estimated conversion expenses.
(3) Evidence supporting the value of any non-cash asset contributions. Appraisals must be acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency and the non-cash assets must meet all other appropriate Federal banking agency policy guidelines.
(4) Pro forma financial statements that reflect the effects of the transaction. The savings association must identify its tangible, core, and risk-based capital levels and show the adjustments necessary to compute the capital levels. The savings association must prepare its pro forma statements in conformance with the appropriate Federal banking agency's regulations and the applicable accounting requirements.
(5) A statement describing the aggregate number and percentage of shares that each director, officer, and any affiliates or associates of the director or officer will purchase.
(e)
Proposed documents.
(1) The savings association's proposed charter and bylaws.
(2) The savings association's proposed stock certificate form.
(3) Any securities offering circular and other securities disclosure materials to be used in connection with the proposed voluntary supervisory conversion.
(f)
Agreements.
(1) A copy of any agreements between the savings association and proposed purchasers.
(2) A copy and description of all existing and proposed employment contracts. The savings association must describe the term, salary, and severance provisions of the contract, the identity and background of the officer or employee to be employed, and the amount of any conversion shares to be purchased by the officer or employee or his or her affiliates or associates.
(g)
Related filings and applications.
(1) All filings required under the securities offering rules of 12 CFR parts 16 and 192.
(2) Any required Change in Bank Control Act notice and rebuttal of control submissions under 12 U.S.C. 1817(j) and 12 CFR 5.50, or copies of any Holding Company Act applications, including prior-conduct certifications listed under the appropriate Federal banking agency's regulatory guidance.
(3) A subordinated debt application, if applicable.
(4) Applications for permission to organize a stock association and for approval of a merger, if applicable, and a copy of any application for FDIC insurance of accounts, if applicable.
(5) A statement describing any other applications required under Federal or State banking laws for all transactions related to the conversion, copies of all dispositive documents issued by regulatory authorities relating to the applications, and, if requested by the appropriate Federal banking agency, copies of the applications and related documents.
(h)
Other information.
(1) A statement indicating the role each director, officer, and affiliate of the savings association or associate of the director or officer will have after the conversion.
(2) Any additional information requested by the OCC, as authorized by law.
(i)
Waiver request.
A description of any of the features of the savings association's application that do not conform to the requirements of this subpart, including any request for waiver of these requirements.

# Appropriate Federal Banking Agency Review of the Voluntary Supervisory Conversion Application
§ 192.670
Approval of voluntary supervisory conversion application.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will generally approve a savings association's application to engage in a voluntary supervisory conversion unless it determines:
(a) The savings association does not meet the eligibility requirements for a voluntary supervisory conversion under § 192.625 or § 192.630 or because the proceeds from the sale of conversion stock, less the expenses of the conversion, would be insufficient to satisfy any applicable viability requirement;
(b) The transaction is detrimental to or would cause potential injury to the savings association or the Deposit Insurance Fund or is contrary to the public interest;
(c) The savings association or its acquiror, or the controlling parties or directors and officers of the savings association or its acquiror, have engaged in unsafe or unsound practices in connection with the voluntary supervisory conversion; or
(d) The savings association fails to justify an employment contract incidental to the conversion, or the employment contract will be an unsafe or unsound practice or represent a sale of control. In a voluntary supervisory conversion, the appropriate Federal banking agency generally will not approve employment contracts of more than one year for existing management.
§ 192.675
Conditions imposed upon approval of voluntary supervisory conversion application.
(a)
Required condition.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on all of the following.
(1) The savings association must complete the conversion stock sale within three months after the appropriate Federal banking agency approves the application. The appropriate Federal banking agency may grant an extension for good cause.
(2) The savings association must comply with all filing requirements of this part, and 12 CFR part 16.
(3) The savings association must submit an opinion of independent legal counsel indicating that the sale of its shares complies with all applicable State securities law requirements.
(4) The savings association must comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(5) The savings association must satisfy any other requirements or conditions the appropriate Federal banking agency may impose.
(b)
Discretionary conditions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may condition approval of a voluntary supervisory application for conversion on either of the following:
(1) The savings association must satisfy any conditions and restrictions the appropriate Federal banking agency imposes to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the public interest, and to prevent potential injury or detriment to the savings association before and after the conversion. The appropriate Federal banking agency may impose these conditions and restrictions on the savings association (before and after the conversion) or, as appropriate, the savings association's acquiror, controlling parties, or its directors and officers; or
(2) The savings association must infuse a larger amount of capital, if necessary, for safety and soundness reasons.

# Offers and Sales of Stock
§ 192.680
Offer and sale of shares in a voluntary supervisory conversion.
If a savings association converts under this subpart, it must offer and sell its shares in accordance with the applicable requirements of 12 CFR parts 16 and 192.

# Post-Conversion
§ 192.690
Restrictions on acquisition of additional shares after voluntary supervisory conversion.
For three years after the completion of a voluntary supervisory conversion, neither the savings association nor its controlling shareholder(s) may acquire
shares from minority shareholders without the appropriate Federal banking agency's prior approval.
PARTS 193-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
12 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
12 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
3 Authority citation revised
20393, 22928
3 Notification
17721
3 Policy statement
64003
3.2 Amended
4362, 4577, 42640
3.2 Amended; interim
20393
3.2 Regulation at 85 FR 20393 eff. date confirmed
68243
3.10 (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) revised
4401
3.10 (c)(4)(ii) introductory text revised; (c)(4)(ii)(J) added
4577
3.10 Correction: (c)(4)(ii)(A), (B)(
1
) introductory text, (
i
), (C)(
2
)(
i
), and (H) amended; (c)(4)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) and (
ii
) revised
57959
3.11 (a)(2)(i) revised; interim
15915
3.11 Regulation at 85 FR 15915 confirmed
63428
3.12 (a)(4) added; interim
77359
3.32 (f) revised
4402
3.32 (a)(1)(iii) added; interim
20393
3.32 Correction: (f)(1) revised
57959
3.32 Regulation at 85 FR 20393 eff. date confirmed
68243
3.34 Revised
4402
3.35 (a)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) added; (b)(4)(i) revised
4404
3.37 (c)(3)(iii), (iv)(A), (C), (4)(i)(B) introductory text, and (
1
) revised
4404
3.37 Correction: (c)(2)(i)(B) amended
57959
3.131 (e)(3)(viii) added; interim
20393
3.131 Regulation at 85 FR 20393 eff. date confirmed
68243
3.132 (b)(2)(ii)(
3
) through (
5
), (c) heading, (1), (2), (5) through (8), (d)(10)(i), and (e)(6)(viii) revised; (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
6
), (
7
), (c)(9) through (11) added; (e)(5)(i)(A), (C), (H), and (6)(i)(B) amended; (e)(5)(ii) Table 3 redesignated as (e)(5)(ii) Table 4
4405
3.132 Correction: (c)(8)(iii) and (iv) amended; (c)(9)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (iv)(A)(
3
) revised
57959
3.133 (a), (b)(1) through (3), (4)(i), (c)(1) through (3), (4)(i), and (d) revised
4411
3.133 Correction: (d)(4), (5), (6) introductory text, and (i) through (iii) revised
57960
3.134 (d)(3) amended
4405
3.173 Table 13 amended
4413
3.202 (1) introductory text and (i) amended
4405
3.210 (e)(1) amended
4405
3.300 (g) and (h) added
4414
3.301 (a)(1), (2), (b)(1), and (c)(1) introductory text revised; (c)(3) and (4) redesignated as (e) and (f); (d), (e) heading, and (f) heading added; (f) introductory text amended; new (f)(i) and new (ii) redesignated as (f)(1) and (2); interim
17732
3.301 Correction: (b)(1), (c)(2) introductory text, (d) introductory text, and (2)(ii) introductory text amended
29841
3.301 Revised
61586
3.302 Added; interim
16236
3.302 Regulation at 85 FR 16236 eff. date confirmed
68243
3.303 Added
22928
3.303 (d) added
22937
3.304 Added; interim
32988
3.305 Added; interim
20393
3.305 Regulation at 85 FR 20393 eff. date confirmed
68243
3.601 (b) revised
42640
3.701 (f)(1)(vi) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80434
4.5 (a) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83726
4.6 (d) added; interim
77359
4.7 (d) added; interim
77359
4.14 (a)(9) amended
42640
4.34 (c)(2) amended
42640
4.37 (a)(2)(ii) amended
42640
5 Authority citation revised
80434
5.2 (b) and (c) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80434
5.3 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
80434
5.4 (a) through (e) amended; (f) revised; (g) added; eff. 1-11-21
80435
5.5 (a) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.7 (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.8 (a) through (e), (g) introductory text, and (1) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.9 (b) and (c) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.10 (b)(2)(i), (ii), (3) heading, and (3) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.11 (a), (c), (d)(1), (e), (f), (g)(1), (2), (h), (i)(1), and (2) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.12 Amended; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.13 (a) introductory text, (b)(1), (3), (c), (d), (f), and (g) amended; (a)(2) and (h) revised; (i) added; eff. 1-11-21
80436
5.20 (d)(7), (8), (i)(3), and (5) as (d)(8), (9), (i)(4), and (6); (b), (d)(2), (8), (9), (e)(1)(ii)(A), (iii) introductory text, (3), (g)(4)(ii), (h)(1)(i), (2), (3)(i), (5)(i), (ii), (iii), (7), (i)(1), (2), new (4), new (5), new (6)(i), new (ii)(A), new (B), new (iii), new (iv), new (iii), (j)(2), (k)(1), (2), (l)(1), and (2) amended; (j)(1) revised; new (i)(3) added; eff. 1-11-21
80437
5.20 (e)(2) revised
80437
5.21 (j)(2)(i)(A) and (ii) amended; (j)(2)(i)(C) added; interim
31948
5.21 (d), (e) introductory text, form, (g)(1), and (2) amended; (f)(2), (g) introductory text, (1), (i), and (j) revised; (f)(3) added; eff. 1-11-21
80437
5.21 (j)(2)(i)(C) and (3)(ii) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83726
5.22 (k)(1) revised; (l)(3) and (8) amended; interim
31948
5.22 (d), (e) introductory text, form, (g)(1), (6), (h), (i), (j)(4), (m)(1), and (2) amended; (f)(2), (g) introductory text, (4), (7), (j)(2), (3), (k)(1) through (7), (l)(1) through (10), and (n) revised; (f)(3) added; eff. 1-11-21
80440
5.22 (j)(2)(ii) revised; (k)(1)(ii)(B) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83726
5.23 (d)(2)(ii)(A) removed; (d)(2)(ii)(B) through (K), (iv), and (v) redesignated as (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (J), (v), and (vi); (b)(2), (ii) introductory text, (c), (d)(1), (2)(i), new (ii)(D), new (F), new (I), new (J), (iii), new (vi), (e), (f)(1), and (g) amended; new (d)(2)(ii)(K), new (L), and new (iv) added; (d)(4) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80445
5.24 (e)(2)(i) removed; (e)(2)(ii) through (x), (4), and (5) as (e)(2)(i) through (ix)(b), (5), and (6); (c)(1), (2), (d), (e)(1), (2) introductory text, (e)(2)(iv), (ix), new (viii), new (ix), new (6), (3), (f), and (i) amended; new (e)(2)(x), new (xi), new (4) added; (h) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80446
5.25 Heading, (b), (c), (d)(1), (2), (3)(i), (ii) introductory text, and (4) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80446
5.26 (a), (b)(2) through (4), (e)(1)(ii), (iii), (2)(i) introductory text, (B), (E), (ii), and (iii)(B) amended; (e)(2)(i)(C), (3), and (6) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80446
5.30 (b), (c)(2), (3), (d)(2), (3), (5), (f)(1), (4), (6), (g), (h)(1), (4), and (j) amended; (d)(1)(i) and (iii) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80447
5.30 (d)(1)(i) and (iii) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83726
5.31 (a), (b), (c)(2), (3), (d)(1), (2), (f)(1)(i), (iii), (2)(ii), (iii) introductory text, (i), (g)(2), (j) heading, (2), and (k)(2)(ii) amended; (j)(3) added; eff. 1-11-21
80447
5.32 (c), (d)(1), (2)(i), (e), (f), (h)(1), and (2) amended eff. 1-11-21
80447
5.33 Revised eff. 1-11-21
80447
5.34 (a), (c), (e)(1)(i)(B), (2)(i)(C), (ii) introductory text, (A), (B), (iii)(B), (3), (4)(i), and (ii) amended; (e)(2)(ii)(C) added; (e)(7) removed; (e)(5) and (6) redesignated as (f) and (g); (d), (e)(2)(i)(A), and new (f) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80455
5.35 Heading, (f)(2)(ii)(A), and (i) revised; (a), (b), (d)(2) through (4), (d)(6), (f)(2)(ii)(B), (g)(2), and (4) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80458
5.36 (g) through (i) redesignated as (h) through (j); (a), (b), (e)(1), new (g) added; (e)(1) and new (h)(1) amended; (c), (e) introductory text, (2) through (4), (f), new (i), and new (j) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80458
5.37 (a), (d)(1)(i), (3)(i), (4), and (5) amended; (c) removed; eff. 1-11-21
80459
5.38 (d) removed; (e)(5) through (7) redesignated as (f) through (h); (e)(2)(iii)(C) added; (a), (b), (e)(2)(i)(C), (iii) introductory text, (A), (B), (iv)(B), (3), (4)(i), and new (h) amended; (e)(2)(i)(A) and new (f) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80459
5.39 (d)(2), (11), (12), and (h)(5)(ii) removed; (d)(3) through (10) redesignated as (d)(2) through (9); (a), (h)(5)(i), and (i) revised; (b), (d)(1), (e)(1) introductory text, (ii), (f)(1), (3), (h)(2), (5) introductory text, (vi), (6), (j)(1)(i), (ii), (2), and (k) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80461
5.40 (a), (b), (c)(1), (2)(i), (ii), (3), and (4) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80462
5.42 (d)(1), (2), and (4) amended; (d)(3) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80462
5.43 Added; eff. 1-11-21
80462
5.45 (b), (e)(1), (f)(3), (g)(1) introductory text, (2)(iii), (4)(i) introductory text, (C), (h), (5), and (i) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80463
5.46 (b), (g)(2), (i)(1) introductory text, (3)(i) introductory text, (4), (5), (6)(i), (ii), (j), and (k) amended; (g)(1)(ii), (h), and (i)(2) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80463
5.47 (d)(3)(ii)(D) added; (b), (d)(1)(ii), (iv)(B), (vi), (vii), (2) introductory text, (3)(ii)(C), and (e) amended; (c), (f), (g), and (h) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80464
5.48 (b), (e)(1), (2)(i), (3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (iii), (4) through (6), and (f)(2)(ii) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80465
5.50 (d)(6) and (7) as redesignated as (d)(7) and (8); new (d)(6) added; (d)(8) and (f)(3)(iv) removed; (b), (c)(2)(iii), (3)(v)(B), (d)(1)(ii), (5), new (7), (f)(2)(i), (ii) introductory text, (D), (E), (iii)(A), (vii), (viii), (3)(i)(A), (ii)(A) through (C), (iii) introductory text, (5) heading, (g)(1) introductory text, (h), (i)(1)(i), (1)(ii), (iii), (3)(i), (4)(ii), and (5) amended; (f)(6) and (g)(2)(i) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80465
5.51 (c)(4), (7)(ii), (d) introductory text, (e)(1), (6)(i)(C), (1)(D)(
2
), (i)(E), (8), (f)(1), (3), and (4) amended; (a) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80466
5.52 (c)(1) and (2) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80466
5.53 (c)(2)(ii) and (d)(3)(i)(A) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80466
5.55 (d)(2) removed; (d)(3) and (h)(1) through (3) redesignated as new (d)(2) as (h)(1)(i) through (iii); new (d)(3), (h)(1) introductory text, and (2) added; (b), (d)(4), and (h)(1)(iii) amended; (e), (f), (g), and (h) introductory text revised; eff. 1-11-21
80466
5.56 (d)(1)(i)(F), (G), (2)(i), (ii), (e)(1) introductory text, (2), and (i) amended; (b) and (h) revised; (d)(1)(i)(H) added; eff. 1-11-21
80467
5.58 (f)(2) and (g) through (i) redesignated as (f)(3) and (h) through (j); new (f)(2) and new (g) added; (d)(3) removed; (a), (e)(1), new (h) heading, new introductory text, new (1), and new (i)(3) amended; (d)(2), (e) introductory text, (2) through (4), (f)(1), new (3), and new (j) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80468
5.59 (a), (b) introductory text, (d)(2), (e)(1), (2), (4), (9), (f)(6)(i), (g)(1) through (3), (h)(1)(i) introductory text, (ii), (2)(i), (3), and (ii)(B) amended; (h)(2)(ii)(A) revised; eff. 1-11-21
80469
5.62 Amended; eff. 1-11-21
80469
5.64 (c)(2)(i), (iii), and (3) amended; (d) removed; eff. 1-11-21
80469
5.66 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
80469
5.67 Revised; eff. 1-11-21
80470
5.70 (c)(1)(iv), (v), (d)(1), and (2) introductory text amended; (d)(3) added; eff. 1-11-21
80470
6.4 Correction: (b) removed; (c) through (e) redesignated as new (b) through (d); heading, (a), new (b) introductory text, and new (1) revised
10968
6.4 (b)(2)(iv)(B) and (3)(iv)(B) revised; interim
32989
7 Authority citation revised
83726
7.1000 Redesignated as 7.1024; new section added; eff. 4-1-21
83726
7.1001 Removed; interim
31949
7.1001 Correction: added
35374
7.1002 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83727
7.1003 (a) heading revised; (a) and (b) amended; (c) added; eff. 4-1-21
83727
7.1004 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83727
7.1005 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1006 Heading and section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1009 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1010 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1012 (c)(1) and (2)(vi) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1015 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1016 Heading, (a), (b)(1) introductory text, (iv), and (2)(i) revised; (b)(1)(iii)(B), (C), (2)(ii), (iii), (3), and (4) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83728
7.1021 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83729
7.1022 (d) and (e) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83729
7.1023 (c) and (d) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83729
7.1024 Redesignated from 7.1000; eff. 4-1-21
83727
7.1024 (c)(2)(i), (ii), (d), and (e) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83729
7.1025 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83729
7.1026 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83730
7.1027 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83731
7.1028 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83732
7.1029 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83732
7.1030 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83732
7.1031 Added
68747
7.2000—7.2025 (Subpart B) Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83733
7.2000 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added; heading, (a), and new (d) revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83733
7.2001 Correction: removed
35374
7.2001 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83733
7.2002 Heading revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83734
7.2003 Revised; interim
31949
7.2003 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83734
7.2004 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83734
7.2005 Heading and (a) heading revised; (c)(3)(ii) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83734
7.2006 Heading revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83734
7.2007 Heading revised; (a) and (b) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2008 (c) amended; eff. 1-11-21
80470
7.2008 Heading and (a) revised; (b) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2009 Heading revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2010 Heading revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2011 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2012 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2013 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2014 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2015 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2016 Heading revised; (a) and (b) redesignated as (a)(1) and (2); (a) heading and new (b) added; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2017 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2018 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83735
7.2019 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2020 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2021 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2022 Heading revised; section amended; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2023 Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2024 (a) and (c) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.2025 Added; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.3000—7.3001 (Subpart C) Heading revised; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.3000 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83736
7.3001 (a)(1), (c) introductory text, and (3) amended; eff. 4-1-21
83737
7.4001 (e) added
33536
7.4003 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
7.4004 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
7.4005 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
7.5001 Revised; eff. 4-1-21
83737
8.2 (a)(5) and (b)(3) redesignated as (a)(5)(i) and (b)(3)(i); (a)(5)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii) added; interim; eff. until 10-15-20
37734
9 Order
16887
9.18 (b)(4)(iv); interim
16892
9.18 (b)(5)(iii) revised; interim
49232
11.3 (a)(1)(i) and (ii) amended
42640
16.15 (e) amended
42641
16.17 (a), (b), and (f) amended
42641
16.30 (a) amended
42641
19 Notification
86795
19.241 Amended
42641
19.242 Introductory text and (b) amended
42641
19.243 (a)(1) introductory text, (vi), (vii), (3), (b)(2), (c)(1) introductory text, and (3) through (6) amended
42641
19.244 Heading revised; (a) introductory text, (1), and (b) amended
42641
19.245 Heading, (a), (b) introductory text, (1), (2), and (c) amended
42641
19.246 (a) and (b) amended
42642
23.6 Amended
42642
25 Authority citation revised
34792
25.01—25.03 (Subpart A) Revised
34792
25.04—25.08 (Subpart B) Revised
34792
25.09 (Subpart C) Revised
34792
25.10—25.20 (Subpart D) Added
34792
25.21—25.30 (Subpart E) Added
34804
25.31—25.35 (Subpart F) Redesignated from 25.61—25.65 (Subpart E)
34804
25.32 (a) revised
34808
25.33 (b)(2) amended
34808
25.61—25.65 (Subpart E) Redesignated as 25.31—25.35 (Subpart F)
34804
25 Appendix A revised
34808
25 Appendix B revised
34809
25 Appendix C added; eff. through 1-1-24
34809
26.6 (b)(4) amended
42642
32.2 (cc) and (dd) revised
42642
32.7 Heading, (a), and (d) revised
42642
32.7 (a)(4) and (5) added
61810
32.9 (b)(1)(iii) revised; (b)(1)(iv) added
4414
34.43 (f) added; interim (temporary)
21317
34.43 (f) revised (temporary)
65671
34.83 Correction: (a)(3)(i) introductory text amended
43422
34.201—34.203 (Subpart G) Appendix C amended
79387
44.6 (f) added
46496
44.10 (c)(1), (3)(i), (8), (10) heading, (i), (11), and (d)(6) revised; (c)(15) through (18) and (d)(11) added
46496
44.12 (b)(1)(ii), (4), (c)(1), (d), and (e) revised; (b)(5) added
46500
44.13 (d) added
46502
44.14 (a)(2)(i), (ii)(C), and (c) revised; (a)(2)(iii), (iv), (v), and (3) added
46502
44.20 (a), (d) heading, (1), and (e) introductory text revised
46502
44.20 Correction: instruction amended to (d)(1) introductory text revised
60355
45.1 (e)(6) and (7) revised; interim
39468
45.1 (e)(6), (7), and (h) introductory text revised; (h)(1) and (3) through (5) added
39771
45.9 (h) added
39772
45.10 (a) revised
39772
45.11 Revised
39772
50.3 Amended; interim
26841
50.3 Regulation at 85 FR 26841 eff. date confirmed
68243
50.34 Added; interim
26841
50.34 Regulation at 85 FR 26841 eff. date confirmed
68243
52.5 Added; interim
77359
108.6 (d) amended
42642
108.7 (c) and (d) amended
42642
108.13 (c) amended
42643
109 Notification
86795
112.4 Amended
42643
141.2 Removed
42643
141.8 Removed
42643
141.15 Removed
42643
141.16 Removed
42643
141.18 Removed
42643
141.19 Removed
42643
141.27 Removed
42643
141.28 Removed
42643
145.121 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
160.1 (a) amended
42643
160.50 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
160.60 (b)(3) amended
42643
160.110 (d) added
33536
160.120 Removed; eff. 4-1-21
83737
161.3 Removed
42643
161.6 Removed
42643
161.26 Removed
42643
161.27 Removed
42643
161.28 Removed
42643
161.29 Removed
42643
161.30 Removed
42643
161.31 Removed
42643
161.37 Amended
42643
161.39 Removed
42643
161.45 Removed
42643
161.50 Revised
42643
161.51 Removed
42643
163.39 Removed
42643
163.47 (d) amended
42643
163.76 (b) and (c) amended
42643
163.80 (c) amended
42643
163.180 (d)(12)(i)(A) amended; (d)(12)(i)(A) redesignated as (d)(12)(i) introductory text
42643
192 Revised
42643
195 Removed
34834
195.11 (a) revised
42661
2021
12 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
3.2 Amended
724
3.10 (c) revised; (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
725
3.20 (c)(3), (d)(4), footnotes 11 through 15, 16, and 17 through 20 redesignated as (c)(3)(i), (d)(4)(i), footnotes 1 through 5, 7, and 8 through 11; (c)(3)(ii) and (d)(4)(ii) added; interim
15080
3.22 (c), (f), and (h) revised
728
3.121 (c) amended
731
3.132 (c)(7)(iii) and (iv) amended
731
3.304 (a) introductory text and (e) amended
731
4.81—4.83 (Subpart F) Added
9260
5.33 Correction: Amended
1255
5.47 (j) added; interim
15080
5.58 Correction: (g)(i) through (v) redesignated as (g)(1) through (5); new (g)(1) amended
1255
7.1031 Removed
42686
9.18 (b)(5)(iii)(C)(
4
) revised
28241
25 Revised; eff. 1-1-22
71339
34.201—34.203 (Subpart G) Appendix C amended
67845
43 Determination
71810
50.1 (a) and (b)(1) introductory text revised
9207
50.2 (b) redesignated as (c) and revised; new (b) added
9207
50.3 Amended
9207
50.22 (b)(1) revised
9209
50.30 (b)(3) revised
9209
50.31 (a)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, and (4) revised
9209
50.32 Amended
9209
50.100—50.109 (Subpart K) Added; nomenclature change
9209
50.105 (b) revised
9209
50.110 (Subpart L) Added; nomenclature change
9209
50.120 (Subpart M) Added
9210
53 Added; eff. 4-1-22
66442
2022
12 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
14 Appendix A revised
27483
19 Notification
1657
21 Authority citation revised
15332
21.11 (m) added
15332
22 Guidance
32826
22 Technical correction
36213
34.201—34.203 (Subpart G) Appendix C amended
63665
109 Notification
1657
163 Authority citation revised
15332
163.180 (f) added
15332
2023
12 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
3.405 Amended; eff. 4-1-24
89842
4.8 Added; eff. 4-1-24
89842
6.3 (b)(3) amended; eff. 4-1-24
89842
6.4 (d)(1) and (2) amended; eff. 4-1-24
89842
6.5 (a)(1), (2), and (b) amended; eff. 4-1-24
89842
6.6 (b) amended; eff. 4-1-24
89842
19 Notification
289
19 Revised; eff. 4-1-24
89843
24 Appendix 1 amended
64360
30 Policy statement
25479
34.201—34.203 (Subpart G) Appendix C amended
83313
108 Removed; eff. 4-1-24
89908
109 Notification
289
109 Removed; eff. 4-1-24
89908
112 Removed; eff. 4-1-24
89908
150.570 Amended; eff. 4-1-24
89908
165 Removed; eff. 4-1-24
89908
2024
12 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
5.33 (d)(3), (i), and (j) removed
78218
5.30—5.39 (Subpart C) Appendix A added
78218
19 Notification
872
24 Authority citation revised
22067
24.2 (c) introductory text and (f) amended; interim
22067
24.3 Amended; interim
22067
24.7 (b) amended; interim
22067
25 Nomenclature change
7165
25.11—25.12 (Subpart A) Revised
7165
25.11 (a) and (c) added
7166
25.12 Amended
7166
25.12 Amended; eff. date delayed indefinitely
7167
25.13 (k) amended
7167
25.14 (b)(2)(ii) and (3) amended
7167
25.21—25.31 (Subpart B) Revised
7165
25.21 (b)(1) and (f) amended
7167
25.22 (e)(2)(ii)(C) through (F) amended; eff. date delayed indefinitely
7167
25.24 (b)(1), (c)(2)(i), (d)(2)(i), (e)(2)(i), and (iii) amended
7167
25.26 Heading, (f)(2)(ii)(A), and (B) amended
7167
25.27 (c)(4) heading and (i) heading amended; interim
22067
25.29 Heading amended
7167
25.30 Heading amended
7167
25.31 Added
7167
25.41—25.45 (Subpart C) Revised
7165
25.42 (h) and (j)(2) amended
7168
25.42 (a)(1) revised; (b)(1) removed; (g)(1)(i) and (2)(i) amended; eff. date delayed indefinitely
7168
25.43 (b)(2)(i) amended
7168
25.43 (b)(2) heading revised; (b)(2)(iii) added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
7168
25.44 Heading amended
7168
25.46 (b) amended
7168
25.51—25.52 (Subpart D) Revised
7165
25.51 (a)(2)(iii) and (e) amended; (d)(2) revised
7168
25.51 (a)(2)(i) amended; interim
22067
25.61—25.65 (Subpart E) Redesignated as Subpart F
7165
25.61—25.65 (Subpart E) Added
7165
25 Appendix A and Appendix B revised; Appendix C through Appendix E added
7165
25 Appendix A revised
7168
25 Appendix A amended; eff. date delayed indefinitely
7168
25 Appendix B and Appendix E amended; Appendix F added
7171
25 Appendix G added; eff. 4-1-24 through 1-1-31
7172
30 Appendix E amended
84260
34 Policy statement
17710, 60549
34 Authority citation revised
64571
34.201—34.203 (Subpart G) Appendix C amended
82932
34.220—34.222 (Subpart I) Added; eff. 10-1-25
64571
35.1 (c) revised; interim
22067
35.4 (a)(2) revised; interim
22067
35.6 (b)(7) amended; interim
22068
35.11 (d) amended; interim
22068
109 Notification
872
192.200 (c) introductory text amended; interim
22068
○
