have not been developed or when necessary by the nature of work involved (for example, while establishing controls or occasional entry into hazardous atmospheres to perform maintenance or investigation), employees may work for reasonable periods of time in concentrations of airborne contaminants exceeding permissible levels if they are protected by appropriate respiratory protective equipment. Whenever respiratory protective equipment is used, its selection, fitting, maintenance, cleaning, training, supervision, and use shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a) Respirators approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 which are applicable and suitable for the purpose intended shall be furnished and miners shall use the protective equipment in accordance with training and instruction.
(b) A written respiratory protection program consistent with the requirements of ASTM F3387-19,
Standard Practice for Respiratory Protection,
approved August 1, 2019, which is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959;
www.astm.org.
(c) When respiratory protection is used in atmospheres immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH), the presence of at least one other person with backup equipment and rescue capability shall be required in the event of failure of the respiratory equipment.
[89 FR 28469, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 28469, Apr. 18, 2024, § 56.5005T was redesignated as § 56.5005, effective Apr. 8, 2026.
§ 56.5006
Restricted use of chemicals.
The following chemical substances shall not be used or stored except by competent persons under laboratory conditions approved by a nationally recognized agency acceptable to the Secretary.
(a) Carbon tetrachloride.
(b) Phenol,
(c) 4-Nitrobiphenyl,
(d) Alpha-naphthylamine,
(e) 4,4-Methylene Bis (2-chloroaniline),
(f) Methyl-chloromethyl ether,
(g) 3,3 Dichlorobenzidine,
(h) Bis (chloromethyl) ether,
(i) Beta-napthylamine,
(j) Benzidine,
(k) 4-Aminodiphenyl,
(l) Ethyleneimine,
(m) Beta-propiolactone,
(n) 2-Acetylaminofluorene,
(o) 4-Dimethylaminobenzene, and
(p) N-Nitrosodimethylamine.

# Subpart E—Explosives

# Source:
61 FR 36795, July 12, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 56.6000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Blasting agent.
Any substance classified as a blasting agent by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.114a(a). This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
Detonating cord.
A flexible cord containing a center core of high explosives which may be used to initiate other explosives.
Detonator.
Any device containing a detonating charge used to initiate an explosive. These devices include electronic detonators, electric or nonelectric instantaneous or delay blasting caps, and delay connectors. The term “detonator” does not include detonating cord. Detonators may be either “Class A” detonators or “Class C” detonators, as classified by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.53 and 173.100, which is available at
any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
Flash point.
The minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture near the surface of the liquid.
Igniter cord.
A fuse that burns progressively along its length with an external flame at the zone of burning, used for lighting a series of safety fuses in a desired sequence.
Magazine.
A bullet-resistant, theft-resistant, fire-resistant, weather-resistant, ventilated facility for the storage of explosives and detonators (BATF Type 1 or Type 2 facility).
Misfire.
The complete or partial failure of explosive material to detonate as planned. The term also is used to describe the explosive material itself that has failed to detonate.
Primer.
A unit, package, or cartridge of explosives which contains a detonator and is used to initiate other explosives or blasting agents.
Safety switch.
A switch that provides shunt protection in blasting circuits between the blast site and the switch used to connect a power source to the blasting circuit.
Slurry.
An explosive material containing substantial portions of a liquid, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a thickener.
Water gel.
An explosive material containing substantial portions of water, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a cross-linking agent.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 32361, May 30, 2003; 69 FR 38840, June 29, 2004; 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]

# Storage
§ 56.6100
Separation of stored explosive material.
(a) Detonators shall not be stored in the same magazine with other explosive material.
(b) When stored in the same magazine, blasting agents shall be separated from explosives, safety fuse, and detonating cord to prevent contamination.
§ 56.6101
Areas around explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Areas surrounding storage facilities for explosive material shall be clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass, and trees for 25 feet in all directions, except that live trees 10 feet or taller need not be removed.
(b) Other combustibles shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate within 50 feet of explosive material. Combustible liquids shall be stored in a manner that ensures drainage will occur away from the explosive material storage facility in case of tank rupture.
§ 56.6102
Explosive material storage practices.
(a) Explosive material shall be—
(1) Stored in a manner to facilitate use of oldest stocks first;
(2) Stored according to brand and grade in such a manner as to facilitate identification; and
(3) Stacked in a stable manner but not more than 8 feet high.
(b) Explosives and detonators shall be stored in closed nonconductive containers except that nonelectric detonating devices may be stored on nonconductive racks provided the case-insert instructions and the date-plant-shift code are maintained with the product.
§ 56.6130
Explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Detonators and explosives shall be stored in magazines.
(b) Packaged blasting agents shall be stored in a magazine or other facility which is ventilated to prevent dampness and excessive heating, weather-resistant, and locked or attended. Drop trailers do not have to be ventilated if they are currently licensed by the Federal, State, or local authorities for over-the-road use. Facilities other than magazines used to store blasting agents shall contain only blasting agents.
(c) Bulk blasting agents shall be stored in weather-resistant bins or tanks which are locked, attended, or otherwise inaccessible to unauthorized entry.
(d) Facilities, bins or tanks shall be posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach.
§ 56.6131
Location of explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Storage facilities for any explosive material shall be—
(1) Located so that the forces generated by a storage facility explosion will not create a hazard to occupants in mine buildings and will not damage dams or electric substations; and
(2) Detached structures located outside the blast area and a sufficient distance from powerlines so that the powerlines, if damaged, would not contact the magazines.
(b) Operators should also be aware of regulations affecting storage facilities in 27 CFR part 55, in particular, 27 CFR 55.218 and 55.220. This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
§ 56.6132
Magazine requirements.
(a) Magazines shall be—
(1) Structurally sound;
(2) Noncombustible or the exterior covered with fire-resistant material;
(3) Bullet resistant;
(4) Made of nonsparking material on the inside;
(5) Ventilated to control dampness and excessive heating within the magazine;
(6) Posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach, so located that a bullet passing through any of the signs will not strike the magazine;
(7) Kept clean and dry inside;
(8) Unlighted or lighted by devices that are specifically designed for use in magazines and which do not create a fire or explosion hazard;
(9) Unheated or heated only with devices that do not create a fire or explosion hazard;
(10) Locked when unattended; and
(11) Used exclusively for the storage of explosive material except for essential nonsparking equipment used for the operation of the magazine.
(b) Metal magazines shall be equipped with electrical bonding connections between all conductive portions so the entire structure is at the same electrical potential. Suitable electrical bonding methods include welding, riveting, or the use of securely tightened bolts where individual metal portions are joined. Conductive portions of nonmetal magazines shall be grounded.
(c) Electrical switches and outlets shall be located on the outside of the magazine.
§ 56.6133
Powder chests.
(a) Powder chests (day boxes) shall be—
(1) Structurally sound, weather-resistant, equipped with a lid or cover, and with only nonsparking material on the inside;
(2) Posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach;
(3) Located out of the blast area once loading has been completed;
(4) Locked or attended when containing explosive material; and
(5) Emptied at the end of each shift with the contents returned to a magazine or other storage facility, or attended.
(b) Detonators shall be kept in chests separate from explosives or blasting agents, unless separated by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]

# Transportation
§ 56.6200
Delivery to storage or blast site areas.
Explosive material shall be transported without undue delay to the storage area or blast site.
§ 56.6201
Separation of transported explosive material.
Detonators shall not be transported on the same vehicle or conveyance with other explosives except as follows:
(a) Detonators in quantities of more than 1000 may be transported in a vehicle or conveyance with explosives or blasting agents provided the detonators are—
(1) Maintained in the original packaging as shipped from the manufacturer; and
(2) Separated from explosives or blasting agents by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. The hardwood or equivalent shall be fastened to the vehicle or conveyance. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No.22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Detonators in quantities of 1000 or fewer may be transported with explosives or blasting agents provided the detonators are—
(1) Kept in closed containers; and
(2) Separated from explosives or blasting agents by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. The hardwood or equivalent shall be fastened to the vehicle or conveyance. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of IME Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 56.6202
Vehicles.
(a) Vehicles containing explosive material shall be—
(1) Maintained in good condition and shall comply with the requirements of subpart M of this part;
(2) Equipped with sides and enclosures higher than the explosive material being transported or have the explosive material secured to a nonconductive pallet;
(3) Equipped with a cargo space that shall contain the explosive material (passenger areas shall not be considered cargo space);
(4) Equipped with at least two multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguishers or one such extinguisher and an automatic fire suppression system;
(5) Posted with warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach;
(6) Occupied only by persons necessary for handling the explosive material;
(7) Attended or the cargo compartment locked, except when parked at the blast site and loading is in progress; and
(8) Secured while parked by having—
(i) The brakes set;
(ii) The wheels chocked if movement could occur; and
(iii) The engine shut off unless powering a device being used in the loading operation.
(b) Vehicles containing explosives shall have—
(1) No sparking material exposed in the cargo space; and
(2) Only properly secured nonsparking equipment in the cargo space with the explosives.
(c) Vehicles used for dispensing bulk explosive material shall—
(1) Have no zinc or copper exposed in the cargo space; and
(2) Provide any enclosed screw-type conveyors with protection against internal pressure and frictional heat.
§ 56.6203
Locomotives.
Explosive material shall not be transported on a locomotive. When explosive material is hauled by trolley locomotive, covered, electrically insulated cars shall be used.
§ 56.6204
Hoists.
(a) Before explosive material is transported in hoist conveyances, the hoist operator shall be notified.
(b) Explosive material transported in hoist conveyances shall be placed within a container which prevents shifting of the cargo that could cause detonation of the container by impact or by sparks. The manufacturer's container may be used if secured to a nonconductive pallet. When explosives are transported, they shall be secured so as not to contact any sparking material.
(c) No explosive material shall be transported during a mantrip.
§ 56.6205
Conveying explosives by hand.
Closed, nonconductive containers shall be used to carry explosives and detonators to and from blast sites. Separate containers shall be used for explosives and detonators.

# Use
§ 56.6300
Control of blasting operations.
(a) Only persons trained and experienced in the handling and use of explosive material shall direct blasting operations and related activities.
(b) Trainees and inexperienced persons shall work only in the immediate presence of persons trained and experienced in the handling and use of explosive material.
§ 56.6301
Blasthole obstruction check.
Before loading, blastholes shall be checked and, wherever possible, cleared of obstructions.
§ 56.6302
Separation of explosive material.
Explosives and blasting agents shall be kept separated from detonators until loading begins.
§ 56.6303
Initiation preparation.
(a) Primers shall be made up only at the time of use and as close to the blast site as conditions allow.
(b) Primers shall be prepared with the detonator contained securely and completely within the explosive or contained securely and appropriately for its design in the tunnel or cap well.
(c) When using detonating cord to initiate another explosive, a connection shall be prepared with the detonating cord threaded through, attached securely to, or otherwise in contact with the explosive.
§ 56.6304
Primer protection.
(a) Tamping shall not be done directly on a primer.
(b) Rigid cartridges of explosives or blasting agents that are 4 inches (100 millimeters) in diameter or larger shall not be dropped on the primer except where the blasthole contains sufficient depth of water to protect the primer from impact. Slit packages of prill, water gel, or emulsions are not considered rigid cartridges and may be drop loaded.
§ 56.6305
Unused explosive material.
Unused explosive material shall be moved to a protected location as soon as practical after loading operations are completed.
§ 56.6306
Loading, blasting, and security.
(a) When explosive materials or initiating systems are brought to the blast site, the blast site shall be attended; barricaded and posted with warning signs, such as “Danger,” “Explosives,” or “Keep Out;” or flagged against unauthorized entry.
(b) Vehicles and equipment shall not be driven over explosive material or initiating systems in a manner which could contact the material or systems, or create other hazards.
(c) Once loading begins, the only activities permitted within the blast site shall be those activities directly related to the blasting operation and the activities of surveying, stemming, sampling of geology, and reopening of holes, provided that reasonable care is exercised. Haulage activity is permitted near the base of a highwall being loaded or awaiting firing, provided no other haulage access exists.
(d) Loading and blasting shall be conducted in a manner designed to facilitate a continuous process, with the blast fired as soon as possible following the completion of loading. If blasting a loaded round may be delayed for more than 72 hours, the operator shall notify the appropriate MSHA district office.
(e) In electric blasting prior to connecting to the power source, and in nonelectric blasting prior to attaching an initiating device, all persons shall leave the blast area except persons in a blasting shelter or other location that protects them from concussion (shock wave), flying material, and gases.
(f) Before firing a blast—
(1) Ample warning shall be given to allow all persons to be evacuated;
(2) Clear exit routes shall be provided for persons firing the round; and
(3) All access routes to the blast area shall be guarded or barricaded to prevent the passage of persons or vehicles.
(g) Work shall not resume in the blast area until a post-blast examination addressing potential blast-related hazards has been conducted by a person with the ability and experience to perform the examination.
§ 56.6307
Drill stem loading.
Explosive material shall not be loaded into blastholes with drill stem equipment or other devices that could be extracted while containing explosive material. The use of loading hose, collar sleeves, or collar pipes is permitted.
§ 56.6308
Initiation systems.
Initiation systems shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
§ 56.6309
Fuel oil requirements for ANFO.
(a) Liquid hydrocarbon fuels with flash points lower than that of No. 2 diesel oil (125 °F) shall not be used to prepare ammonium nitrate-fuel oil, except that diesel fuels with flash points no lower than 100 °F may be used at ambient air temperatures below 45 °F.
(b) Waste oil, including crankcase oil, shall not be used to prepare ammonium nitrate-fuel oil.
§ 56.6310
Misfire waiting period.
When a misfire is suspected, persons shall not enter the blast area—
(a) For 30 minutes if safety fuse and blasting caps are used;
(b) For 15 minutes if any other type detonators are used; or
(c) For 30 minutes if electronic detonators are used, or for the manufacturer-recommended time, whichever is longer.
[61 FR 36795, July 12, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]
§ 56.6311
Handling of misfires.
(a) Faces and muck piles shall be examined for misfires after each blasting operation.
(b) Only work necessary to remove a misfire and protect the safety of miners engaged in the removal shall be permitted in the affected area until the misfire is disposed of in a safe manner.
(c) When a misfire cannot be disposed of safely, each approach to the area affected by the misfire shall be posted with a warning sign at a conspicuous location to prohibit entry, and the condition shall be reported immediately to mine management.
(d) Misfires occurring during the shift shall be reported to mine management not later than the end of the shift.
§ 56.6312
Secondary blasting.
Secondary blasts fired at the same time in the same work area shall be initiated from one source.

# Electric Blasting
§ 56.6400
Compatibility of electric detonators.
All electric detonators to be fired in a round shall be from the same manufacturer and shall have similar electrical firing characteristics.
§ 56.6401
Shunting.
Except during testing—
(a) Electric detonators shall be kept shunted until connected to the blasting line or wired into a blasting round;
(b) Wired rounds shall be kept shunted until connected to the blasting line; and
(c) Blasting lines shall be kept shunted until immediately before blasting.
§ 56.6402
Deenergized circuits near detonators.
Electrical distribution circuits within 50 feet of electric detonators at the blast site shall be deenergized. Such circuits need not be deenergized between 25 to 50 feet of the electric detonators if stray current tests, conducted as frequently as necessary, indicate a maximum stray current of less than 0.05 amperes through a 1-ohm resistor as measured at the blast site.
§ 56.6403
Branch circuits.
(a) If electric blasting includes the use of branch circuits, each branch shall be equipped with a safety switch or equivalent method to isolate the circuits to be used.
(b) At least one safety switch or equivalent method of protection shall be located outside the blast area and shall be in the open position until persons are withdrawn.
§ 56.6404
Separation of blasting circuits from power source.
(a) Switches used to connect the power source to a blasting circuit shall be locked in the open position except when closed to fire the blast.
(b) Lead wires shall not be connected to the blasting switch until the shot is ready to be fired.
§ 56.6405
Firing devices.
(a) Power sources shall be capable of delivering sufficient current to energize all electric detonators to be fired with the type of circuits used. Storage or dry cell batteries are not permitted as power sources.
(b) Blasting machines shall be tested, repaired, and maintained in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(c) Only the blaster shall have the key or other control to an electrical firing device.
§ 56.6406
Duration of current flow.
If any part of a blast is connected in parallel and is to be initiated from powerlines or lighting circuits, the time of current flow shall be limited to a maximum of 25 milliseconds. This can be accomplished by incorporating an arcing control device in the blasting circuit or by interrupting the circuit with an explosive device attached to one or both lead lines and initiated by a 25-millisecond delay electric detonator.
§ 56.6407
Circuit testing.
A blasting galvanometer or other instrument designed for testing blasting circuits shall be used to test each of the following:
(a) Continuity of each electric or electronic detonator in the blasthole
prior to stemming and connection to the blasting line.
(b) Resistance of individual series or the resistance of multiple balanced series to be connected in parallel prior to their connection to the blasting line.
(c) Continuity of blasting lines prior to the connection of electric or electronic detonator series.
(d) Total blasting circuit resistance prior to connection to the power source.
[61 FR 36795, July 12, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]

# Nonelectric Blasting
§ 56.6500
Damaged initiating material.
A visual check of the completed circuit shall be made to ensure that the components are properly aligned and connected. Safety fuse, igniter cord, detonating cord, shock or gas tubing, and similar material which is kinked, bent sharply, or damaged shall not be used.
§ 56.6501
Nonelectric initiation systems.
(a) When the nonelectric initiation system uses shock tube—
(1) Connections with other initiation devices shall be secured in a manner which provides for uninterrupted propagation;
(2) Factory-made units shall be used as assembled and shall not be cut except that a single splice is permitted on the lead-in trunkline during dry conditions; and
(3) Connections between blastholes shall not be made until immediately prior to clearing the blast site when surface delay detonators are used.
(b) When the nonelectric initiation system uses detonating cord—
(1) The line of detonating cord extending out of a blasthole shall be cut from the supply spool immediately after the attached explosive is correctly positioned in the hole;
(2) In multiple row blasts, the trunkline layout shall be designed so that the detonation can reach each blasthole from at least two directions;
(3) Connections shall be tight and kept at right angles to the trunkline;
(4) Detonators shall be attached securely to the side of the detonating cord and pointed in the direction in which detonation is to proceed;
(5) Connections between blastholes shall not be made until immediately prior to clearing the blast site when surface delay detonators are used; and
(6) Lead-in lines shall be manually unreeled if connected to the trunklines at the blast site.
(c) When the nonelectric initiation system uses gas tube, continuity of the circuit shall be tested prior to blasting.
§ 56.6502
Safety fuse.
(a) The burning rate of each spool of safety fuse to be used shall be measured, posted in locations which will be conspicuous to safety fuse users, and brought to the attention of all persons involved with the blasting operation.
(b) When firing with safety fuse ignited individually using handheld lighters, the safety fuse shall be of lengths which provide at least the minimum burning time for a particular size round, as specified in the following table:
Table E-1—Safety Fuse—Minimum Burning Time
Number of holes in a round
Minimum
burning time
1
2 min.
1
2-5
2 min. 40 sec.
6-10
3 min. 20 sec.
11 to 15
5 min.
1
For example, at least a 36-inch length of 40-second-per-foot safety fuse or at least a 48-inch length of 30-second-per-foot safety fuse would have to be used to allow sufficient time to evacuate the area.
(c) Where flyrock might damage exposed safety fuse, the blast shall be timed so that all safety fuses are burning within the blastholes before any blasthole detonates.
(d) Fuse shall be cut and capped in dry locations.
(e) Blasting caps shall be crimped to fuse only with implements designed for that purpose.
(f) Safety fuse shall be ignited only after the primer and the explosive material are securely in place.
(g) Safety fuse shall be ignited only with devices designed for that purpose. Carbide lights, liquefied petroleum gas torches, and cigarette lighters shall not be used to light safety fuse.
(h) At least two persons shall be present when lighting safety fuse, and
no one shall light more than 15 individual fuses. If more than 15 holes per person are to be fired, electric initiation systems, igniter cord and connectors, or other nonelectric initiation systems shall be used.

# Extraneous Electricity
§ 56.6600
Loading practices.
If extraneous electricity is suspected in an area where electric detonators are used, loading shall be suspended until tests determine that stray current does not exceed 0.05 amperes through a 1-ohm resister when measured at the location of the electric detonators. If greater levels of extraneous electricity are found, the source shall be determined and no loading shall take place until the condition is corrected.
§ 56.6601
Grounding.
Electric blasting circuits, including powerline sources when used, shall not be grounded.
§ 56.6602
Static electricity dissipation during loading.
When explosive material is loaded pneumatically into a blasthole in a manner that generates a static electricity hazard—
(a) An evaluation of the potential static electricity hazard shall be made and any hazard shall be eliminated before loading begins;
(b) The loading hose shall be of a semiconductive type, have a total of not more than 2 megohms of resistance over its entire length and not less than 1000 ohms of resistance per foot;
(c) Wire-countered hoses shall not be used;
(d) Conductive parts of the loading equipment shall be bonded and grounded and grounds shall not be made to other potential sources of extraneous electricity; and
(e) Plastic tubes shall not be used as hole liners if the hole contains an electric detonator.
§ 56.6603
Air gap.
At least a 15-foot air gap shall be provided between the blasting circuit and the electric power source.
§ 56.6604
Precautions during storms.
During the approach and progress of an electrical storm, blasting operations shall be suspended and persons withdrawn from the blast area or to a safe location.
§ 56.6605
Isolation of blasting circuits.
Lead wires and blasting lines shall be isolated and insulated from power conductors, pipelines, and railroad tracks, and shall be protected from sources of stray or static electricity. Blasting circuits shall be protected from any contact between firing lines and overhead powerlines which could result from the force of a blast.

# Equipment/Tools
§ 56.6700
Nonsparking tools.
Only nonsparking tools shall be used to open containers of explosive material or to punch holes in explosive cartridges.
§ 56.6701
Tamping and loading pole requirements.
Tamping and loading poles shall be of wood or other nonconductive, nonsparking material. Couplings for poles shall be nonsparking.

# Maintenance
§ 56.6800
Storage facilities.
When repair work which could produce a spark or flame is to be performed on a storage facility—
(a) The explosive material shall be moved to another facility, or moved at least 50 feet from the repair activity and monitored; and
(b) The facility shall be cleaned to prevent accidental detonation.
§ 56.6801
Vehicle repair.
Vehicles containing explosive material and oxidizers shall not be taken into a repair garage or shop.
§ 56.6802
Bulk delivery vehicles.
No welding or cutting shall be performed on a bulk delivery vehicle until the vehicle has been washed down and all explosive material has been removed. Before welding or cutting on a hollow shaft, the shaft shall be thoroughly cleaned inside and out and
vented with a minimum
1/2
-inch diameter opening to allow for sufficient ventilation.
§ 56.6803
Blasting lines.
Permanent blasting lines shall be properly supported. All blasting lines shall be insulated and kept in good repair.

# General Requirements
§ 56.6900
Damaged or deteriorated explosive material.
Damaged or deteriorated explosive material shall be disposed of in a safe manner in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer.
§ 56.6901
Black powder.
(a) Black powder shall be used for blasting only when a desired result cannot be obtained with another type of explosive, such as in quarrying certain types of dimension stone.
(b) Containers of black powder shall be—
(1) Nonsparking;
(2) Kept in a totally enclosed cargo space while being transported by a vehicle;
(3) Securely closed at all times when—
(i) Within 50 feet of any magazine or open flame;
(ii) Within any building in which a fuel-fired or exposed-element electric heater is operating; or
(iii) In an area where electrical or incandescent-particle sparks could result in powder ignition; and
(4) Opened only when the powder is being transferred to a blasthole or another container and only in locations not listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c) Black powder shall be transferred from containers only by pouring.
(d) Spills shall be cleaned up promptly with nonsparking equipment. Contaminated powder shall be put into a container of water and shall be disposed of promptly after the granules have disintegrated, or the spill area shall be flushed promptly with water until the granules have disintegrated completely.
(e) Misfires shall be disposed of by washing the stemming and powder charge from the blasthole, and removing and disposing of the initiator in accordance with the requirement for damaged explosives.
(f) Holes shall not be reloaded for at least 12 hours when the blastholes have failed to break as planned.
§ 56.6902
Excessive temperatures.
(a) Where heat could cause premature detonation, explosive material shall not be loaded into hot areas, such as kilns or sprung holes.
(b) When blasting sulfide ores where hot holes occur that may react with explosive material in blastholes, operators shall—
(1) Measure an appropriate number of blasthole temperatures in order to assess the specific mine conditions prior to the introduction of explosive material;
(2) Limit the time between the completion of loading and the initiation of the blast to no more than 12 hours; and
(3) Take other special precautions to address the specific conditions at the mine to prevent premature detonation.
§ 56.6903
Burning explosive material.
If explosive material is suspected of burning at the blast site, persons shall be evacuated from the endangered area and shall not return for at least one hour after the burning or suspected burning has stopped.
§ 56.6904
Smoking and open flames.
Smoking and use of open flames shall not be permitted within 50 feet of explosive material except when separated by permanent noncombustible barriers. This standard does not apply to devices designed to ignite safety fuse or to heating devices which do not create a fire or explosion hazard.
§ 56.6905
Protection of explosive material.
(a) Explosive material shall be protected from temperatures in excess of 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
(b) Explosive material shall be protected from impact, except for tamping and dropping during loading.

# Subpart F—Drilling and Rotary Jet Piercing

# Drilling
§ 56.7002
Equipment defects.
Equipment defects affecting safety shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 56.7003
Drill area inspection.
The drilling area shall be inspected for hazards before starting the drilling operations.
§ 56.7004
Drill mast.
Persons shall not be on a mast while the drill-bit is in operation unless they are provided with a safe platform from which to work and they are required to use safety belts to avoid falling.
§ 56.7005
Augers and drill stems.
Drill crews and others shall stay clear of augers or drill stems that are in motion. Persons shall not pass under or step over a moving stem or auger.
§ 56.7008
Moving the drill.
When a drill is being moved from one drilling area to another, drill steel, tools, and other equipment shall be secured and the mast placed in a safe position.
§ 56.7009
Drill helpers.
If a drill helper assists the drill operator during movement of a drill to a new location, the helper shall be in sight of, or in communication with, the operator at all times.
§ 56.7010
Power failures.
In the event of power failure, drill controls shall be placed in the neutral position until power is restored.
§ 56.7011
Straightening crossed cables.
The drill stem shall be resting on the bottom of the hole or on the platform with the stem secured to the mast before attempts are made to straighten a crossed cable on a reel.
§ 56.7012
Tending drills in operation.
While in operation, drills shall be attended at all times.
§ 56.7013
Covering or guarding drill holes.
Drill holes large enough to constitute a hazard shall be covered or guarded.
§ 56.7018
Hand clearance.
Persons shall not hold the drill steel while collaring holes, or rest their hands on the chuck or centralizer while drilling.
§ 56.7050
Tool and drill steel racks.
Receptacles or racks shall be provided for drill steel and tools stored or carried on drills.
§ 56.7051
Loose objects on the mast or drill platform.
To prevent injury to personnel, tools and other objects shall not be left loose on the mast or drill platform.
§ 56.7052
Drilling positions.
Persons shall not drill from—
(a) Positions which hinder their access to the control levers;
(b) Insecure footing or insecure staging; or
(c) Atop equipment not suitable for drilling.
§ 56.7053
Moving hand-held drills.
Before hand-held drills are moved from one working area to another, air shall be turned off and bled from the hose.
§ 56.7055
Intersecting holes.
Holes shall not be drilled where there is a danger of intersecting a misfired hole or a hole containing explosives blasting agents, or detonators.
[56 FR 46508, Sept. 12, 1991]
§ 56.7056
Collaring in bootlegs.
Holes shall not be collared in bootlegs.
[56 FR 46508, Sept. 12, 1991]

# Rotary Jet Piercing
§ 56.7801
Jet drills.
Jet piercing drills shall be provided with—
(a) A system to pressurize the equipment operator's cab, when a cab is provided; and
(b) A protective cover over the oxygen flow indicator.
§ 56.7802
Oxygen hose lines.
Safety chains or other suitable locking devices shall be provided across connections to and between high pressure oxygen hose lines of 1-inch inside diameter or larger.
§ 56.7803
Lighting the burner.
A suitable means of protection shall be provided for the employee when lighting the burner.
§ 56.7804
Refueling.
When rotary jet piercing equipment requires refueling at locations other than fueling stations, a system for fueling without spillage shall be provided.
§ 56.7805
Smoking and open flames.
Persons shall not smoke and open flames shall not be used in the vicinity of the oxygen storage and supply lines. Signs warning against smoking and open flames shall be posted in these areas.
§ 56.7806
Oxygen intake coupling.
The oxygen intake coupling on jet-piercing drills shall be constructed so that only the oxygen hose can be coupled to it.
§ 56.7807
Flushing the combustion chamber.
The combustion chamber of a jet drill stem which has been sitting unoperated in a drill hole shall be flushed with a suitable solvent after the stem is pulled up.
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Loading, Hauling, and Dumping

# Source:
53 FR 32520, Aug. 25, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Traffic Safety
§ 56.9100
Traffic control.
To provide for the safe movement of self-propelled mobile equipment—
(a) Rules governing speed, right-of-way, direction of movement, and the use of headlights to assure appropriate visibility, shall be established and followed at each mine; and
(b) Signs or signals that warn of hazardous conditions shall be placed at appropriate locations at each mine.
§ 56.9101
Operating speeds and control of equipment.
Operators of self-propelled mobile equipment shall maintain control of the equipment while it is in motion. Operating speeds shall be consistent with conditions of roadways, tracks, grades, clearance, visibility, and traffic, and the type of equipment used.
§ 56.9102
Movement of independently operating rail equipment.
Movement of two or more pieces of rail equipment operating independently on the same track shall be controlled for safe operation.
§ 56.9103
Clearance on adjacent tracks.
Railcars shall not be left on side tracks unless clearance is provided for traffic on adjacent tracks.
§ 56.9104
Railroad crossings.
Designated railroad crossings shall be posted with warning signs or signals, or shall be guarded when trains are passing. These crossings shall also be planked or filled between the rails.

# Transportation of Persons and Materials
§ 56.9200
Transporting persons.
Persons shall not be transported—
(a) In or on dippers, forks, clamshells, or buckets except shaft buckets during shaft-sinking operations or during inspection, maintenance and repair of shafts.
(b) In beds of mobile equipment or railcars, unless—
(1) Provisions are made for secure travel, and
(2) Means are taken to prevent accidental unloading if the equipment is provided with unloading devices;
(c) On top of loads in mobile equipment;
(d) Outside cabs, equipment operators' stations, and beds of mobile
equipment, except when necessary for maintenance, testing, or training purposes, and provisions are made for secure travel. This provision does not apply to rail equipment.
(e) Between cars of trains, on the leading end of trains, on the leading end of a single railcar, or in other locations on trains that expose persons to hazards from train movement.
(1) This paragraph does not apply to car droppers if they are secured with safety belts and lines which prevent them from falling off the work platform.
(2) Brakemen and trainmen are prohibited from riding between cars of moving trains, but may ride on the leading end of trains or other locations when necessary to perform their duties;
(f) To and from work areas in overcrowded mobile equipment;
(g) In mobile equipment with materials or equipment unless the items are secured or are small and can be carried safely by hand without creating a hazard to persons; or
(h) On conveyors unless the conveyors are designed to provide for their safe transportation.
§ 56.9201
Loading, hauling, and unloading of equipment or supplies.
Equipment and supplies shall be loaded, transported, and unloaded in a manner which does not create a hazard to persons from falling or shifting equipment or supplies.
§ 56.9202
Loading and hauling large rocks.
Large rocks shall be broken before loading if they could endanger persons or affect the stability of mobile equipment. Mobile equipment used for haulage of mined material shall be loaded to minimize spillage where a hazard to persons could be created.

# Safety Devices, Provisions, and Procedures for Roadways, Railroads, and Loading and Dumping Sites
§ 56.9300
Berms or guardrails.
(a) Berms or guardrails shall be provided and maintained on the banks of roadways where a drop-off exists of sufficient grade or depth to cause a vehicle to overturn or endanger persons in equipment.
(b) Berms or guardrails shall be at least mid-axle height of the largest self-propelled mobile equipment which usually travels the roadway.
(c) Berms may have openings to the extent necessary for roadway drainage.
(d) Where elevated roadways are infrequently traveled and used only by service or maintenance vehicles, berms or guardrails are not required when all of the following are met:
(1) Locked gates are installed at the entrance points to the roadway.
(2) Signs are posted warning that the roadway is not bermed.
(3) Delineators are installed along the perimeter of the elevated roadway so that, for both directions of travel, the reflective surfaces of at least three delineators along each elevated shoulder are always visible to the driver and spaced at intervals sufficient to indicate the edges and attitude of the roadway.
(4) A maximum speed limit is posted and observed for the elevated unbermed portions of the roadway. Factors to consider when establishing the maximum speed limit shall include the width, slope and alignment of the road, the type of equipment using the road, the road material, and any hazardous conditions which may exist.
(5) Road surface traction is not impaired by weather conditions, such as sleet and snow, unless corrective measures are taken to improve traction.
(e) This standard is not applicable to rail beds.
[53 FR 32520, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 37218, Sept. 7, 1990]
§ 56.9301
Dump site restraints.
Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or similar impeding devices shall be provided at dumping locations where there is a hazard of overtravel or overturning.
§ 56.9302
Protection against moving or runaway railroad equipment.
Stopblocks, derail devices, or other devices that protect against moving or runaway rail equipment shall be installed wherever necessary to protect persons.
§ 56.9303
Construction of ramps and dumping facilities.
Ramps and dumping facilities shall be designed and constructed of materials capable of supporting the loads to which they will be subjected. The ramps and dumping facilities shall provide width, clearance, and headroom to safely accommodate the mobile equipment using the facilities.
§ 56.9304
Unstable ground.
(a) Dumping locations shall be visually inspected prior to work commencing and as ground conditions warrant.
(b) Where there is evidence that the ground at a dumping location may fail to support the mobile equipment, loads shall be dumped a safe distance back from the edge of the unstable area of the bank.
§ 56.9305
Truck spotters.
(a) If truck spotters are used, they shall be in the clear while trucks are backing into dumping position or dumping.
(b) Spotters shall use signal lights to direct trucks where visibility is limited.
(c) When a truck operator cannot clearly recognize the spotter's signals, the truck shall be stopped.
§ 56.9306
Warning devices for restricted clearances.
Where restricted clearance creates a hazard to persons on mobile equipment, warning devices shall be installed in advance of the restricted area and the restricted area shall be conspicuously marked.
§ 56.9307
Design, installation, and maintenance of railroads.
Roadbeds and all elements of the railroad tracks shall be designed, installed, and maintained to provide safe operation consistent with the speed and type of haulage used.
§ 56.9308
Switch throws.
Switch throws shall be installed to provide clearance to protect switchmen from contact with moving trains.
§ 56.9309
Chute design.
Chute-loading installations shall be designed to provide a safe location for persons pulling chutes.
§ 56.9310
Chute hazards.
(a) Prior to chute-pulling, persons who could be affected by the draw or otherwise exposed to danger shall be warned and given time to clear the hazardous area.
(b) Persons attempting to free chute hangups shall be experienced and familiar with the task, know the hazards involved, and use the proper tools to free material.
(c) When broken rock or material is dumped into an empty chute, the chute shall be equipped with a guard or all persons shall be isolated from the hazard of flying rock or material.
§ 56.9311
Anchoring stationary sizing devices.
Grizzlies and other stationary sizing devices shall be securely anchored.
§ 56.9312
Working around drawholes.
Unless platforms or safety lines are used, persons shall not position themselves over drawholes if there is danger that broken rock or material may be withdrawn or bridged.
§ 56.9313
Roadway maintenance.
Water, debris, or spilled material on roadways which creates hazards to the operation of mobile equipment shall be removed.
§ 56.9314
Trimming stockpile and muckpile faces.
Stockpile and muckpile faces shall be trimmed to prevent hazards to persons.
§ 56.9315
Dust control.
Dust shall be controlled at muck piles, material transfer points, crushers, and on haulage roads where hazards to persons would be created as a result of impaired visibility.
§ 56.9316
Notifying the equipment operator.
When an operator of self-propelled mobile equipment is present, persons shall notify the equipment operator before getting on or off that equipment.
§ 56.9317
Suspended loads.
Persons shall not work or pass under the buckets or booms of loaders in operation.
§ 56.9318
Getting on or off moving equipment.
Persons shall not get on or off moving mobile equipment. This provision does not apply to trainmen, brakemen, and car droppers who are required to get on or off slowly moving trains in the performance of their work duties.
§ 56.9319
Going over, under, or between railcars.
Persons shall not go over, under, or between railcars unless:
(a) The train is stopped; and
(b) The train operator, when present, is notified and the notice acknowledged.
§ 56.9330
Clearance for surface equipment.
Continuous clearance of at least 30 inches from the farthest projection of moving railroad equipment shall be provided on at least one side of the tracks at all locations where possible or the area shall be marked conspicuously.

# Subpart I—Aerial Tramways
§ 56.10001
Filling buckets.
Buckets shall not be overloaded, and feed shall be regulated to prevent spillage.
§ 56.10002
Inspection and maintenance.
Inspection and maintenance of carriers (including loading and unloading mechanisms), ropes and supports, and brakes shall be performed by competent persons according to the recommendations of the manufacturer.
§ 56.10003
Correction of defects.
Any hazardous defects shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 56.10004
Brakes.
Positive-action-type brakes and devices which apply the brakes automatically in the event of a power failure shall be provided on aerial tramways.
§ 56.10005
Track cable connections.
Track cable connections shall not obstruct the passage of carriage wheels.
§ 56.10006
Tower guards.
Towers shall be suitably protected from swaying buckets.
§ 56.10007
Falling object protection.
Guard nets or other suitable protection shall be provided where tramways pass over roadways, walkways, or buildings.
§ 56.10008
Riding tramways.
Persons other than maintenance persons shall not ride aerial tramways unless the following features are provided:
(a) Two independent brakes, each capable of holding the maximum load;
(b) Direct communication between terminals;
(c) Power drives with emergency power available in case of primary power failure; and
(d) Buckets equipped with positive locks to prevent accidental tripping or dumping.
§ 56.10009
Riding loaded buckets.
Persons shall not ride loaded buckets.
§ 56.10010
Starting precautions.
Where possible, aerial tramways shall not be started until the operator has ascertained that everyone is in the clear.

# Subpart J—Travelways
§ 56.11001
Safe access.
Safe means of access shall be provided and maintained to all working places.
§ 56.11002
Handrails and toeboards.
Crossovers, elevated walkways, elevated ramps, and stairways shall be of substantial construction provided with handrails, and maintained in good condition. Where necessary, toeboards shall be provided.
§ 56.11003
Construction and maintenance of ladders.
Ladders shall be of substantial construction and maintained in good condition.
§ 56.11004
Portable rigid ladders.
Portable rigid ladders shall be provided with suitable bases and placed securely when used.
§ 56.11005
Fixed ladder anchorage and toe clearance.
Fixed ladders shall be anchored securely and installed to provide at least 3 inches of toe clearance.
§ 56.11006
Fixed ladder landings.
Fixed ladders shall project at least 3 feet above landings, or substantial handholds shall be provided above the landings.
§ 56.11007
Wooden components of ladders.
Wooden components of ladders shall not be painted except with a transparent finish.
§ 56.11008
Restricted clearance.
Where restricted clearance creates a hazard to persons, the restricted clearance shall be conspicuously marked.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988]
§ 56.11009
Walkways along conveyors.
Walkways with outboard railings shall be provided wherever persons are required to walk alongside elevated conveyor belts. Inclined railed walkways shall be nonskid or provided with cleats.
§ 56.11010
Stairstep clearance.
Vertical clearance above stair steps shall be a minimum of seven feet, or suitable warning signs or similar devices shall be provided to indicate an impaired clearance.
§ 56.11011
Use of ladders.
Persons using ladders shall face the ladders and have both hands free for climbing and descending.
§ 56.11012
Protection for openings around travelways.
Openings above, below, or near travelways through which persons or materials may fall shall be protected by railings, barriers, or covers. Where it is impractical to install such protective devices, adequate warning signals shall be installed.
§ 56.11013
Conveyor crossovers.
Crossovers shall be provided where it is necessary to cross conveyors.
§ 56.11014
Crossing moving conveyors.
Moving conveyors shall be crossed only at designated crossover points.
§ 56.11016
Snow and ice on walkways and travelways.
Regularly used walkways and travelways shall be sanded, salted, or cleared of snow and ice as soon as practicable.
§ 56.11017
Inclined fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders shall not incline backwards.
§ 56.11025
Railed landings, backguards, and other protection for fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders, except on mobile equipment, shall be offset and have substantial railed landings at least every 30 feet unless backguards or equivalent protection, such as safety belts and safety lines, are provided.
§ 56.11026
Protection for inclined fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders 70 degrees to 90 degrees from the horizontal and 30 feet or more in length shall have backguards, cages or equivalent protection, starting at a point not more than seven feet from the bottom of the ladders.
§ 56.11027
Scaffolds and working platforms.
Scaffolds and working platforms shall be of substantial construction and provided with handrails and maintained in good condition. Floor boards shall be laid properly and the scaffolds and working platforms shall not be overloaded. Working platforms shall be provided with toeboards when necessary.

# Subpart K—Electricity
§ 56.12001
Circuit overload protection.
Circuits shall be protected against excessive overload by fuses or circuit breakers of the correct type and capacity.
§ 56.12002
Controls and switches.
Electric equipment and circuits shall be provided with switches or other controls. Such switches or controls shall be of approved design and construction and shall be properly installed.
§ 56.12003
Trailing cable overload protection.
Individual overload protection or short circuit protection shall be provided for the trailing cables of mobile equipment.
§ 56.12004
Electrical conductors.
Electrical conductors shall be of a sufficient size and current-carrying capacity to ensure that a rise in temperature resulting from normal operations will not damage the insulating materials. Electrical conductors exposed to mechanical damage shall be protected.
§ 56.12005
Protection of power conductors from mobile equipment.
Mobile equipment shall not run over power conductors, nor shall loads be dragged over power conductors, unless the conductors are properly bridged or protected.
§ 56.12006
Distribution boxes.
Distribution boxes shall be provided with a disconnecting device for each branch circuit. Such disconnecting devices shall be equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation when such a device is open and that the circuit is deenergized, the distribution box shall be labeled to show which circuit each device controls.
§ 56.12007
Junction box connection procedures.
Trailing cable and power-cable connections to junction boxes shall not be made or broken under load.
§ 56.12008
Insulation and fittings for power wires and cables.
Power wires and cables shall be insulated adequately where they pass into or out of electrical compartments. Cables shall enter metal frames of motors, splice boxes, and electrical compartments only through proper fittings. When insulated wires, other than cables, pass through metal frames, the holes shall be substantially bushed with insulated bushings.
§ 56.12010
Isolation or insulation of communication conductors.
Telephone and low-potential signal wire shall be protected, by isolation or suitable insulation, or both, from contacting energized power conductors or any other power source.
§ 56.12011
High-potential electrical conductors.
High-potential electrical conductors shall be covered, insulated, or placed to prevent contact with low potential conductors.
§ 56.12012
Bare signal wires.
The potential on bare signal wires accessible to contact by persons shall not exceed 48 volts.
§ 56.12013
Splices and repairs of power cables.
Permanent splices and repairs made in power cables, including the ground conductor where provided, shall be:
(a) Mechanically strong with electrical conductivity as near as possible to that of the original;
(b) Insulated to a degree at least equal to that of the original, and sealed to exclude moisture; and
(c) Provided with damage protection as near as possible to that of the original, including good bonding to the outer jacket.
§ 56.12014
Handling energized power cables.
Power cables energized to potentials in excess of 150 volts, phase-to-ground, shall not be moved with equipment unless sleds or slings, insulated from such equipment, are used. When such energized cables are moved manually, insulated hooks, tongs, ropes, or slings shall be used unless suitable protection
for persons is provided by other means. This does not prohibit pulling or dragging of cable by the equipment it powers when the cable is physically attached to the equipment by suitable mechanical devices, and the cable is insulated from the equipment in conformance with other standards in this part.
§ 56.12016
Work on electrically-powered equipment.
Electrically powered equipment shall be deenergized before mechanical work is done on such equipment. Power switches shall be locked out or other measures taken which shall prevent the equipment from being energized without the knowledge of the individuals working on it. Suitable warning notices shall be posted at the power switch and signed by the individuals who are to do the work. Such locks or preventive devices shall be removed only by the persons who installed them or by authorized personnel.
§ 56.12017
Work on power circuits.
Power circuits shall be deenergized before work is done on such circuits unless hot-line tools are used. Suitable warning signs shall be posted by the individuals who are to do the work. Switches shall be locked out or other measures taken which shall prevent the power circuits from being energized without the knowledge of the individuals working on them. Such locks, signs, or preventative devices shall be removed only by the person who installed them or by authorized personnel.
§ 56.12018
Identification of power switches.
Principal power switches shall be labeled to show which units they control, unless identification can be made readily by location.
§ 56.12019
Access to stationary electrical equipment or switchgear.
Where access is necessary, suitable clearance shall be provided at stationary electrical equipment or switchgear.
§ 56.12020
Protection of persons at switchgear.
Dry wooden platforms, insulating mats, or other electrically nonconductive material shall be kept in place at all switchboards and power-control switches where shock hazards exist. However, metal plates on which a person normally would stand and which are kept at the same potential as the grounded, metal, non-current-carrying parts of the power switches to be operated may be used.
§ 56.12021
Danger signs.
Suitable danger signs shall be posted at all major electrical installations.
§ 56.12022
Authorized persons at major electrical installations.
Areas containing major electrical installations shall be entered only by authorized persons.
§ 56.12023
Guarding electrical connections and resistor grids.
Electrical connections and resistor grids that are difficult or impractical to insulate shall be guarded, unless protection is provided by location.
§ 56.12025
Grounding circuit enclosures.
All metal enclosing or encasing electrical circuits shall be grounded or provided with equivalent protection. This requirement does not apply to battery-operated equipment.
§ 56.12026
Grounding transformer and switchgear enclosures.
Metal fencing and metal buildings enclosing transformers and switchgear shall be grounded.
§ 56.12027
Grounding mobile equipment.
Frame grounding or equivalent protection shall be provided for mobile equipment powered through trailing cables.
§ 56.12028
Testing grounding systems.
Continuity and resistance of grounding systems shall be tested immediately after installation, repair, and modification; and annually thereafter. A record of the resistance measured during the most recent tests shall be
made available on a request by the Secretary or his duly authorized representative.
§ 56.12030
Correction of dangerous conditions.
When a potentially dangerous condition is found it shall be corrected before equipment or wiring is energized.
§ 56.12032
Inspection and cover plates.
Inspection and cover plates on electrical equipment and junction boxes shall be kept in place at all times except during testing or repairs.
§ 56.12033
Hand-held electric tools.
Hand-held electric tools shall not be operated at high potential voltages.
§ 56.12034
Guarding around lights.
Portable extension lights, and other lights that by their location present a shock or burn hazard, shall be guarded.
§ 56.12035
Weatherproof lamp sockets.
Lamp sockets shall be of a weatherproof type where they are exposed to weather or wet conditions that may interfere with illumination or create a shock hazard.
§ 56.12036
Fuse removal or replacement.
Fuses shall not be removed or replaced by hand in an energized circuit, and they shall not otherwise be removed or replaced in an energized circuit unless equipment and techniques especially designed to prevent electrical shock are provided and used for such purpose.
§ 56.12037
Fuses in high-potential circuits.
Fuse tongs or hot line tools shall be used when fuses are removed or replaced in high-potential circuits.
§ 56.12038
Attachment of trailing cables.
Trailing cables shall be attached to machines in a suitable manner to protect the cable from damage and to prevent strain on the electrical connections.
§ 56.12039
Protection of surplus trailing cables.
Surplus trailing cables to shovels, cranes and similar equipment shall be—
(a) Stored in cable boats;
(b) Stored on reels mounted on the equipment; or
(c) Otherwise protected from mechanical damage.
§ 56.12040
Installation of operating controls.
Operating controls shall be installed so that they can be operated without danger of contact with energized conductors.
§ 56.12041
Design of switches and starting boxes.
Switches and starting boxes shall be of safe design and capacity.
§ 56.12042
Track bonding.
Both rails shall be bonded or welded at every joint and rails shall be crossbonded at least every 200 feet if the track serves as the return trolley circuit. When rails are moved, replaced, or broken bonds are discovered, they shall be rebonded within three working shifts.
§ 56.12045
Overhead powerlines.
Overhead high-potential powerlines shall be installed as specified by the National Electrical Code.
§ 56.12047
Guy wires.
Guy wires of poles supporting high-voltage transmission lines shall meet the requirements for grounding or insulator protection of the National Electrical Safety Code, part 2, entitled “Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electric Supply and Communication Lines” (also referred to as National Bureau of Standards Handbook 81, November 1, 1961) and Supplement 2 thereof issued March 1968, which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. These publications and documents may be obtained from the National Institute of Science and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 3460, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-3460. Telephone: 301-975-6478 (not a toll free number);
http://ts.nist.gov/nvl;
or from the Government
Printing Office, Information Dissemination (Superintendent of Documents), P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954; Telephone: 866-512-1800 (toll free) or 202-512-1800,
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
, or may be examined in any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 56.12048
Communication conductors on power poles.
Telegraph, telephone, or signal wires shall not be installed on the same crossarm with power conductors. When carried on poles supporting powerlines, they shall be installed as specified by the National Electrical Code.
§ 56.12050
Installation of trolley wires.
Trolley wires shall be installed at least seven feet above rails where height permits, and aligned and supported to suitably control sway and sag.
§ 56.12053
Circuits powered from trolley wires.
Ground wires for lighting circuits powered from trolley wires shall be connected securely to the ground-return circuit.
§ 56.12065
Short circuit and lightning protection.
Powerlines, including trolley wires, and telephone circuits shall be protected against short circuits and lightning.
§ 56.12066
Guarding trolley wires and bare powerlines.
Where metallic tools or equipment can come in contact with trolley wires or bare powerlines, the lines shall be guarded or deenergized.
§ 56.12067
Installation of transformers.
Transformers shall be totally enclosed, or shall be placed at least 8 feet above the ground, or installed in a transformer house, or surrounded by a substantial fence at least 6 feet high and at least 3 feet from any energized parts, casings, or wiring.
§ 56.12068
Locking transformer enclosures.
Transformer enclosures shall be kept locked against unauthorized entry.
§ 56.12069
Lightning protection for telephone wires and ungrounded conductors.
Each ungrounded power conductor or telephone wire that leads underground and is directly exposed to lightning shall be equipped with suitable lightning arrestors of approved type within 100 feet of the point where the circuit enters the mine. Lightning arrestors shall be connected to a low resistance grounding medium on the surface and shall be separated from neutral grounds by a distance of not less than 25 feet.
§ 56.12071
Movement or operation of equipment near high-voltage power lines.
When equipment must be moved or operated near energized high-voltage powerlines (other than trolley lines) and the clearance is less than 10 feet, the lines shall be deenergized or other precautionary measures shall be taken.

# Subpart L—Compressed Air and Boilers
§ 56.13001
General requirements for boilers and pressure vessels.
All boilers and pressure vessels shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and specifications of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
§ 56.13010
Reciprocating-type air compressors.
(a) Reciprocating-type air compressors rated over 10 horsepower shall be equipped with automatic temperature-actuated shutoff mechanisms which shall be set or adjusted to the compressor when the normal operating temperature is exceeded by more than 25 percent.
(b) However, this standard does not apply to reciprocating-type air compressors rated over 10 horsepower if equipped with fusible plugs that were installed in the compressor discharge
lines before November 15, 1979, and designed to melt at temperatures at least 50 degrees below the flash point of the compressors' lubricating oil.
§ 56.13011
Air receiver tanks.
Air receiver tanks shall be equipped with one or more automatic pressure-relief valves. The total relieving capacity of the relief valves shall prevent pressure from exceeding the maximum allowable working pressure in a receiver tank by not more than 10 percent. Air receiver tanks also shall be equipped with indicating pressure gauges which accurately measure the pressure within the air receiver tanks.
§ 56.13012
Compressor air intakes.
Compressor air intakes shall be installed to ensure that only clean, uncontaminated air enters the compressors.
§ 56.13015
Inspection of compressed-air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels.
(a) Compressed-air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels shall be inspected by inspectors holding a valid National Board Commission and in accordance with the applicable chapters of the National Board Inspection Code, a Manual for Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1979. This code is incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. It may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and may be obtained from the publisher, the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspector, 1055 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229.
(b) Records of inspections shall be kept in accordance with requirements of the National Board Inspection Code, and the records shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative.
§ 56.13017
Compressor discharge pipes.
Compressor discharge pipes where carbon build-up may occur shall be cleaned periodically as recommended by the manufacturer, but no less frequently than once every two years.
§ 56.13019
Pressure system repairs.
Repairs involving the pressure system of compressors, receivers, or compressed-air-powered equipment shall not be attempted until the pressure has been bled off.
§ 56.13020
Use of compressed air.
At no time shall compressed air be directed toward a person. When compressed air is used, all necessary precautions shall be taken to protect persons from injury.
§ 56.13021
High-pressure hose connections.
Except where automatic shutoff valves are used, safety chains or other suitable locking devices shall be used at connections to machines of high-pressure hose lines of
3/4
-inch inside diameter or larger, and between high-pressure hose lines of
3/4
-inch inside diameter or larger, where a connection failure would create a hazard.
§ 56.13030
Boilers.
(a) Fired pressure vessels (boilers) shall be equipped with water level gauges, pressure gauges, automatic pressure-relief valves, blowdown piping, and other safety devices approved by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers to protect against hazards from overpressure, flameouts, fuel interruptions and low water level, all as required by the appropriate sections, chapters and appendices listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
(b) These gauges, devices and piping shall be designed, installed, operated, maintained, repaired, altered, inspected, and tested by inspectors holding a valid National Board Commission and in accordance with the following listed sections, chapters and appendices:
(1) The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, Published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

# Section and Title
I Power Boilers.
II Material Specifications—Part A—Ferrous.
II Material Specifications—Part B—Non-ferrous.
II Material Specifications—Part C—Welding Rods, Electrodes, and Filler Metals.
IV Heating Boilers
V Nondestructive Examination
VI Recommended Rules for Care and Operation of Heating Boilers
VII Recommended Rules for Care of Power Boilers
(2) The National Board Inspection Code, a Manual for Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1979, published by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.

# Chapter and Title
I Glossary of Terms
II Inspection of Boilers and Pressure Vessels
III Repairs and Alterations to Boiler and Pressure Vessels by Welding
IV Shop Inspection of Boilers and Pressure Vessels
V Inservice Inspection of Pressure Vessels by Authorized Owner-User Inspection Agencies

# Appendix and Title
A Safety and Safety Relief Valves
B Non-ASME Code Boilers and Pressure Vessels
C Storage of Mild Steel Covered Arc Welding Electrodes
D-R National Board “R” (Repair) Symbol Stamp
D-VR National Board “VR” (Repair of Safety and Safety Relief Valve) Symbol Stamp
D-VR1 Certificate of Authorization for Repair Symbol Stamp for Safety and Safety Relief Valves
D-VR2 Outline of Basic Elements of Written Quality Control System for Repairers of ASME Safety and Safety Relief Valves
D-VR3 Nameplate Stamping for “VR”
E Owner-user Inspection Agencies
F Inspection Forms
(c) Records of inspections and repairs shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and the National Board Inspection Code. The records shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative.
(d) Sections of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and chapters and appendices of the National Board Inspection Code, 1979, listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. These publications may be obtained from the publishers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007, Phone: 800-843-2763 (toll free);
http://www.asme.org
, and the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1055 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229. The publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Subpart M—Machinery and Equipment

# Source:
53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 56.14000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Travelway.
A passage, walk, or way regularly used or designated for persons to go from one place to another.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 69 FR 38840, June 29, 2004]

# Safety Devices and Maintenance Requirements
§ 56.14100
Safety defects; examination, correction and records.
(a) Self-propelled mobile equipment to be used during a shift shall be inspected by the equipment operator before being placed in operation on that shift.
(b) Defects on any equipment, machinery, and tools that affect safety shall be corrected in a timely manner to prevent the creation of a hazard to persons.
(c) When defects make continued operation hazardous to persons, the defective items including self-propelled mobile equipment shall be taken out of service and placed in a designated area posted for that purpose, or a tag or other effective method of marking the defective items shall be used to prohibit further use until the defects are corrected.
(d) Defects on self-propelled mobile equipment affecting safety, which are
not corrected immediately, shall be reported to and recorded by the mine operator. The records shall be kept at the mine or nearest mine office from the date the defects are recorded, until the defects are corrected. Such records shall be made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 56.14101
Brakes.
(a)
Minimum requirements.
(1) Self-propelled mobile equipment shall be equipped with a service brake system capable of stopping and holding the equipment with its typical load on the maximum grade it travels. This standard does not apply to equipment which is not originally equipped with brakes unless the manner in which the equipment is being operated requires the use of brakes for safe operation. This standard does not apply to rail equipment.
(2) If equipped on self-propelled mobile equipment, parking brakes shall be capable of holding the equipment with its typical load on the maximum grade it travels.
(3) All braking systems installed on the equipment shall be maintained in functional condition.
(b)
Testing.
(1) Service brake tests shall be conducted when an MSHA inspector has reasonable cause to believe that the service brake system does not function as required, unless the mine operator removes the equipment from service for the appropriate repair;
(2) The performance of the service brakes shall be evaluated according to Table M-1.
Table M-1
Gross vehicle weight lbs.
Equipment speed, MPH
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Service Brake Maximum Stopping Distance—Feet
0-36000
34
38
43
48
53
59
64
70
76
83
89
36000-70000
41
46
52
58
62
70
76
83
90
97
104
70000-140000
48
54
61
67
74
81
88
95
103
111
119
140000-250000
56
62
69
77
84
92
100
108
116
125
133
250000-400000
59
66
74
81
89
97
105
114
123
132
141
Over 400000
63
71
78
86
94
103
111
120
129
139
148
Stopping distances are computed using a constant decleration of 9.66 FPS
2
and system response times of .5.1, 1.5, 2, 2.25 and 2.5 seconds for each increasing weight category respectively. Stopping distance values include a one-second operator response time.
Table M-2—The Speed of a Vehicle Can be Determined by Clocking it Through a 100-Foot Measured Course at Constant Velocity Using Table M-2. When the Service Brakes are Applied at the End of the Course, Stopping Distance Can be Measured and Compared to Table M-1.
Miles per hour
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Seconds Required to Travel 100 Feet
6.8
6.2
5.7
5.2
4.9
4.5
4.3
4.0
3.8
3.6
3.4
(3) Service brake tests shall be conducted under the direction of the mine operator in cooperation with an according to the instructions provided by the MSHA inspector as follows:
(i) Equipment capable of traveling at least 10 miles per hour shall be tested with a typical load for that particular piece of equipment. Front-end loaders shall be tested with the loader bucket empty. Equipment shall not be tested when carrying hazardous loads, such as explosives.
(ii) The approach shall be sufficient length to allow the equipment operator to reach and maintain a constant speed between 10 and 20 miles per hour prior to entering the 100 foot measured area. The constant speed shall be maintained up to the point when the equipment operator receives the signal to apply the brakes. The roadway shall be wide enough to accommodate the size of the equipment being tested. The ground shall be generally level, packed, and dry in the braking portion of the test
course. Ground moisture may be present to the extent that it does not adversely affect the braking surface.
(iii) Braking is to be performed using only those braking systems, including auxiliary retarders, which are designed to bring the equipment to a stop under normal operating conditions. Parking or emergency (secondary) brakes are not to be actuated during the test.
(iv) The tests shall be conducted with the transmission in the gear appropriate for the speed the equipment is traveling except for equipment which is designed for the power train to be disengaged during braking.
(v) Testing speeds shall be a minimum of 10 miles per hour and a maximum of 20 miles per hour.
(vi) Stopping distances shall be measured from the point at which the equipment operator receives the signal to apply the service brakes to the final stopped position.
(4) Test results shall be evaluated as follows:
(i) If the initial test run is valid and the stopping distance does not exceed the corresponding stopping distance listed in Table 1, the performance of the service brakes shall be considered acceptable. For tests to be considered valid, the equipment shall not slide sideways or exhibit other lateral motion during the braking portion of the test.
(ii) If the equipment exceeds the maximum stopping distance in the initial test run, the mine operator may request from the inspector up to four additional test runs with two runs to be conducted in each direction. The performance of the service brakes shall be considered acceptable if the equipment does not exceed the maximum stopping distance on at least three of the additional tests.
(5) Where there is not an appropriate test site at the mine or the equipment is not capable or traveling at least 10 miles per hour, service brake tests will not be conducted. In such cases, the inspector will rely upon other available evidence to determine whether the service brake system meets the performance requirement of this standard.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 56.14102
Brakes for rail equipment.
Braking systems on railroad cars and locomotives shall be maintained in functional condition.
§ 56.14103
Operators stations.
(a) If windows are provided on operators' stations of self-propelled mobile equipment, the windows shall be made of safety glass or material with equivalent safety characteristics. The windows shall be maintained to provide visibility for safe operation.
(b) If damaged windows obscure visibility necessary for safe operation, or create a hazard to the equipment operator, the windows shall be replaced or removed. Damaged windows shall be replaced if absence of a window would expose the equipment operator to hazardous environmental conditions which would affect the ability of the equipment operator to safely operate the equipment.
(c) The operator's stations of self-propelled mobile equipment shall—
(1) Be free of materials that could create a hazard to persons by impairing the safe operation of the equipment; and
(2) Not be modified, in a manner that obscures visibility necessary for safe operation.
§ 56.14104
Tire repairs.
(a) Before a tire is removed from a vehicle for tire repair, the valve core shall be partially removed to allow for gradual deflation and then removed. During deflation, to the extent possible, persons shall stand outside of the potential trajectory of the lock ring of a multi-piece wheel rim.
(b) To prevent injury from wheel rims during tire inflation, one of the following shall be used:
(1) A wheel cage or other restraining device that will constrain all wheel rim components during an explosive separation of a multi-piece wheel rim, or during the sudden release of contained air in a single piece rim wheel; or
(2) A stand-off inflation device which permits persons to stand outside of the potential trajectory of wheel components.
§ 56.14105
Procedures during repairs or maintenance.
Repairs or maintenance of machinery or equipment shall be performed only after the power is off, and the machinery or equipment blocked against hazardous motion. Machinery or equipment motion or activation is permitted to the extent that adjustments or testing cannot be performed without motion or activation, provided that persons are effectively protected from hazardous motion.
§ 56.14106
Falling object protection.
(a) Fork-lift trucks, front-end loaders, and bulldozers shall be provided with falling object protective structures if used in an area where falling objects could create a hazard to the equipment operator.
(b) The protective structure shall be capable of withstanding the falling object loads to which it would be subjected.
§ 56.14107
Moving machine parts.
(a) Moving machine parts shall be guarded to protect persons from contacting gears, sprockets, chains, drive, head, tail, and takeup pulleys, flywheels, couplings, shafts, fan blades, and similar moving parts that can cause injury.
(b) Guards shall not be required where the exposed moving parts are at least seven feet away from walking or working surfaces.
§ 56.14108
Overhead drive belts.
Overhead drive belts shall be guarded to contain the whipping action of a broken belt if that action could be hazardous to persons.
§ 56.14109
Unguarded conveyors with adjacent travelways.
Unguarded conveyors next to the travelways shall be equipped with—
(a) Emergency stop devices which are located so that a person falling on or against the conveyor can readily deactivate the conveyor drive motor; or
(b) Railings which—
(1) Are positioned to prevent persons from falling on or against the conveyor;
(2) Will be able to withstand the vibration, shock, and wear to which they will be subjected during normal operation; and
(3) Are constructed and maintained so that they will not create a hazard.
§ 56.14110
Flying or falling materials.
In areas where flying or falling materials generated from the operation of screens, crushers, or conveyors present a hazard, guards, shields, or other devices that provide protection against such flying or falling materials shall be provided to protect persons.
§ 56.14111
Slusher, backlash guards and securing.
(a) When persons are exposed to slushing operations, the slushers shall be equipped with rollers and drum covers and anchored securely before slushing operations are started.
(b) Slushers rated over 10 horsepower shall be equipped with backlash guards, unless the equipment operator is otherwise protected.
(c) This standard does not apply to air tuggers of 10 horsepower or less that have only one cable and one drum.
§ 56.14112
Construction and maintenance of guards.
(a) Guards shall be constructed and maintained to—
(1) Withstand the vibration, shock, and wear to which they will be subjected during normal operation; and
(2) Not create a hazard by their use.
(b) Guards shall be securely in place while machinery is being operated, except when testing or making adjustments which cannot be performed without removal of the guard.
§ 56.14113
Inclined conveyors: backstops or brakes.
Backstops or brakes shall be installed on drive units of inclined conveyors to prevent the conveyors from running in reverse, creating a hazard to persons.
§ 56.14114
Air valves for pneumatic equipment.
A manual master quick-close type air valve shall be installed on all pneumatic-powered equipment if there is a hazard of uncontrolled movement when the air supply is activated. The valve
shall be closed except when the equipment is being operated.
§ 56.14115
Stationary grinding machines.
Stationary grinding machines, other than special bit grinders, shall be equipped with—
(a) Peripheral hoods capable of withstanding the force of a bursting wheel and enclosing not less than 270° of the periphery of the wheel;
(b) Adjustable tool rests set so that the distance between the grinding surface of the wheel and the tool rest in not greater than
1/8
inch; and
(c) A safety washer on each side of the wheel.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 56.14116
Hand-held power tools.
(a) Power drills, disc sanders, grinders and circular and chain saws, when used in the hand-held mode shall be operated with controls which require constant hand or finger pressure.
(b) Circular saws and chain saws shall not be equipped with devices which lock-on the operating controls.
§ 56.14130
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts.
(a)
Equipment included.
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts shall be installed on—
(1) Crawler tractors and crawler loaders;
(2) Graders;
(3) Wheel loaders and wheel tractors;
(4) The tractor portion of semi-mounted scrapers, dumpers, water wagons, bottom-dump wagons, rear-dump wagons, and towed fifth wheel attachments;
(5) Skid-steer loaders; and
(6) Agricultural tractors.
(b)
ROPS construction.
ROPS shall meet the requirements of the following Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) publications, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference:
(1) SAE J1040, “Performance Criteria for Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry, and Mining Machines,”, 1986; or
(2) SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors”, 1983.
(c)
ROPS labelling.
ROPS shall have a label permanently affixed to the structure identifying—
(1) The manufacturer's name and address;
(2) The ROPS model number; and
(3) The make and model number of the equipment for which the ROPS is designed.
(d)
ROPS installation.
ROPS shall be installed on the equipment in accordance with the recommendations of the ROPS manufacturer.
(e)
ROPS maintenance.
(1) ROPS shall be maintained in a condition that meets the performance requirements applicable to the equipment. If the ROPS is subjected to roll-over an abnormal structural loading, the equipment manufacturer or a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design shall recertify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements before it is returned to service.
(2) Alterations or repairs on ROPS shall be performed only with approval from the ROPS manufacturer or under the instructions of a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design. The manufacturer or engineer shall certify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements.
(f)
Exemptions.
(1) This standard does not apply to—
(i) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to July 1, 1969;
(ii) Over-the-road type tractors that pull trailers or vans on highways;
(iii) Equipment that is only operated by remote control; and
(2) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to October 24, 1988, that is equipped with ROPS and seat belts that meet the installation and performance requirements of 30 CFR 56.9088 (1986 edition) shall be considered in compliance with paragraphs (b) and (h) of this section.
(g)
Wearing seat belts.
Seat belts shall be worn by the equipment operator except that when operating graders from a standing position, the grader operator shall wear safety lines and a harness in place of a seat belt.
(h)
Seat belts construction.
Seat belts required under this section shall meet the requirement of SAE J386, “Operator Restraint System for Off-Road Work Machines” (1985, 1993, or 1997), or SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors” (1983, 1989, 1994, or 1999), as applicable, which are incorporated by reference.
(i)
Seat belt maintenance.
Seat belts shall be maintained in functional condition, and replaced when necessary to assure proper performance.
(j)
Publications.
The incorporation by reference of these publications is approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 724-776-4841;
http://www.sae.org.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 19347, Apr. 21, 2003; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 56.14131
Seat belts for haulage trucks.
(a) Seat belts shall be provided and worn in haulage trucks.
(b) Seat belts shall be maintained in functional condition, and replaced when necessary to assure proper performance.
(c) Seat belts required under this section shall meet the requirements of SAE J386, “Operator Restraint System for Off-Road Work Machines” (1985, 1993, or 1997), which are incorporated by reference.
(d) The incorporation by reference of these publications is approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 724-776-4841;
http://www.sae.org.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 19347, Apr. 21, 2003; 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 56.14132
Horns and backup alarms.
(a) Manually-operated horns or other audible warning devices provided on self-propelled mobile equipment as a safety feature shall be maintained in functional condition.
(b)(1) When the operator has an obstructed view to the rear, self-propelled mobile equipment shall have—
(i) An automatic reverse-activated signal alarm;
(ii) A wheel-mounted bell alarm which sounds at least once for each three feet of reverse movement;
(iii) A discriminating backup alarm that covers the area of obstructed view; or
(iv) An observer to signal when it is safe to back up.
(2) Alarms shall be audible above the surrounding noise level.
(3) An automatic reverse-activated strobe light may be used at night in lieu of an audible reverse alarm.
(c) This standard does not apply to rail equipment.

# Safety Practices and Operational Procedures
§ 56.14200
Warnings prior to starting or moving equipment.
Before starting crushers or moving self-propelled mobile equipment, equipment operators shall sound a warning that is audible above the surrounding noise level or use other effective means
to warn all persons who could be exposed to a hazard from the equipment.
§ 56.14201
Conveyor start-up warnings.
(a) When the entire length of a conveyor is visible from the starting switch, the conveyor operator shall visually check to make certain that all persons are in the clear before starting the conveyor.
(b) When the entire length of the conveyor is not visible from the starting switch, a system which provides visible or audible warning shall be installed and operated to warn persons that the conveyor will be started. Within 30 seconds after the warning is given, the conveyor shall be started or a second warning shall be given.
§ 56.14202
Manual cleaning of conveyor pulleys.
Pulleys of conveyors shall not be cleaned manually while the conveyor is in motion.
§ 56.14203
Application of belt dressing.
Belt dressings shall not be applied manually while belts are in motion unless a pressurized-type applicator is used that allows the dressing to be applied from outside the guards.
§ 56.14204
Machinery lubrication.
Machinery or equipment shall not be lubricated manually while it is in motion where application of the lubricant may expose persons to injury.
§ 56.14205
Machinery, equipment, and tools.
Machinery, equipment, and tools shall not be used beyond the design capacity intended by the manufacturer where such use may create a hazard to persons.
§ 56.14206
Securing movable parts.
(a) When moving mobile equipment between workplaces, booms, forks, buckets, beds, and similar movable parts of the equipment shall be positioned in the travel mode and, if required for safe travel, mechanically secured.
(b) When mobile equipment is unattended or not in use, dippers, buckets and scraper blades shall be lowered to the ground. Other movable parts, such as booms, shall be mechanically secured or positioned to prevent movement which would create a hazard to persons.
[53 FR 32521, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 56.14207
Parking procedures for unattended equipment.
Mobile equipment shall not be left unattended unless the controls are placed in the park position and the parking brake, if provided, is set. When parked on a grade, the wheels or tracks of mobile equipment shall be either chocked or turned into a bank.
§ 56.14208
Warning devices.
(a) Visible warning devices shall be used when parked mobile equipment creates a hazard to persons in other mobile equipment.
(b) Mobile equipment, other than forklifts, carrying loads that project beyond the sides or more than four feet beyond the rear of the equipment shall have a warning flag at the end of the projection. Under conditions of limited visibility these loads shall have a warning light at the end of the projection. Such flag or lights shall be attached to the end of the projection or be carried by persons walking beside or behind the projection.
§ 56.14209
Safety procedures for towing.
(a) A properly sized tow bar or other effective means of control shall be used to tow mobile equipment.
(b) Unless steering and braking are under the control of the equipment operator on the towed equipment, a safety chain or wire rope capable of withstanding the loads to which it could be subjected shall be used in conjunction with any primary rigging.
(c) This provision does not apply to rail equipment.
§ 56.14210
Movement of dippers, buckets, loading booms, or suspended loads.
(a) Dippers, buckets, loading booms, or suspended loads shall not be swung over the operators' stations of self-propelled mobile equipment until the equipment operator is out of the operator's station and in a safe location.
(b) This section does not apply when the equipment is specifically designed to protect the equipment operator from falling objects.
§ 56.14211
Blocking equipment in a raised position.
(a) Persons shall not work on top of, under, or work from mobile equipment in a raised position until the equipment has been blocked or mechanically secured to prevent it from rolling or falling accidentally.
(b) Persons shall not work on top of, under, or work from a raised component of mobile equipment until the component has been blocked or mechanically secured to prevent accidental lowering. The equipment must also be blocked or secured to prevent rolling.
(c) A raised component must be secured to prevent accidental lowering when persons are working on or around mobile equipment and are exposed to the hazard of accidental lowering of the component.
(d) Under this section, a raised component of mobile equipment is considered to be blocked or mechanically secured if provided with a functional load-locking device or a device which prevents free and uncontrolled descent.
(e) Blocking or mechanical securing of the raised component is required during repair or maintenance of elevated mobile work platforms.
§ 56.14212
Chains, ropes, and drive belts.
Chains, ropes, and drive belts shall be guided mechanically onto moving pulleys, sprockets, or drums except where equipment is designed specifically for hand feeding.
§ 56.14213
Ventilation and shielding for welding.
(a) Welding operations shall be shielded when performed at locations where arc flash could be hazardous to persons.
(b) All welding operations shall be well-ventilated.
§ 56.14214
Train warnings.
A warning that is audible above the surrounding noise level shall be sounded—
(a) Immediately prior to moving trains;
(b) When trains approach persons, crossings, other trains on adjacent tracks; and
(c) Any place where the train operator's vision is obscured.
§ 56.14215
Coupling or uncoupling cars.
Prior to coupling or uncoupling cars manually, trains shall be brought to a complete stop, and then moved at minimum tram speed until the coupling or uncoupling activity is completed. Coupling or uncoupling shall not be attempted from the inside of curves unless the railroad and cars are designed to eliminate hazards to persons.
§ 56.14216
Backpoling.
Backpoling of trolleys is prohibited except where there is inadequate clearance to reverse the trolley pole. Where backpoling is required, it shall be done only at the minimum tram speed of the trolley.
§ 56.14217
Securing parked railcars.
Parked railcars shall be blocked securely unless held effectively by brakes.
§ 56.14218
Movement of equipment on adjacent tracks.
When a locomotive on one track is used to move rail equipment on adjacent tracks, a chain, cable, or drawbar shall be used which is capable of meeting the loads to which it could be subjected.
§ 56.14219
Brakeman signals.
When a train is under the direction of a brakeman and the train operator cannot clearly recognize the brakeman's signals, the train operator shall bring the train to a stop.
Pt. 56, Subpt. M, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart M of Part 56—National Consensus Standards
Mine operators seeking further information regarding the construction and installation of falling object protective structures (FOPS) may consult the following national consensus standards, as applicable.
MSHA Standard 56.14106, Falling Object Protection.
Equipment
National consensus standard
Front-end loaders and bulldozers
Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) minimum performance criteria for falling object protective structures (FOPS) SAE J231—January, 1981.
Fork-lift trucks
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) safety standard for low lift and high lift trucks, B 56.1, section 7.27—1983; or,
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard, rough terrain fork lift trucks, B56.6—1987.

# Subpart N—Personal Protection
§ 56.15001
First-aid materials.
Adequate first-aid materials, including stretchers and blankets, shall be provided at places convenient to all working areas. Water or neutralizing agents shall be available where corrosive chemicals or other harmful substances are stored, handled, or used.
§ 56.15002
Hard hats.
All persons shall wear suitable hard hats when in or around a mine or plant where falling objects may create a hazard.
§ 56.15003
Protective footwear.
All persons shall wear suitable protective footwear when in or around an area of a mine or plant where a hazard exists which could cause an injury to the feet.
§ 56.15004
Eye protection.
All persons shall wear safety glasses, goggles, or face shields or other suitable protective devices when in or around an area of a mine or plant where a hazard exists which could cause injury to unprotected eyes.
§ 56.15005
Safety belts and lines.
Safety belts and lines shall be worn when persons work where there is danger of falling; a second person shall tend the lifeline when bins, tanks, or other dangerous areas are entered.
§ 56.15006
Protective equipment and clothing for hazards and irritants.
Special protective equipment and special protective clothing shall be provided, maintained in a sanitary and reliable condition and used whenever hazards of process or environment, chemical hazards, radiological hazards, or mechanical irritants are encountered in a manner capable of causing injury or impairment.
§ 56.15007
Protective equipment or clothing for welding, cutting, or working with molten metal.
Protective clothing or equipment and face shields, or goggles shall be worn when welding, cutting, or working with molten metal.
§ 56.15014
Eye protection when operating grinding wheels.
Face shields or goggles in good condition shall be worn when operating a grinding wheel.
[53 FR 32526, Aug. 25, 1988]
§ 56.15020
Life jackets and belts.
Life jackets or belts shall be worn where there is danger from falling into water.

# Subpart O—Materials Storage and Handling
§ 56.16001
Stacking and storage of materials.
Supplies shall not be stacked or stored in a manner which creates tripping or fall-of-material hazards.
§ 56.16002
Bins, hoppers, silos, tanks, and surge piles.
(a) Bins, hoppers, silos, tanks, and surge piles, where loose unconsolidated materials are stored, handled or transferred shall be—
(1) Equipped with mechanical devices or other effective means of handling materials so that during normal operations persons are not required to enter or work where they are exposed to entrapment by the caving or sliding of materials; and
(2) Equipped with supply and discharge operating controls. The controls shall be located so that spills or overruns will not endanger persons.
(b) Where persons are required to move around or over any facility listed in this standard, suitable walkways or passageways shall be provided.
(c) Where persons are required to enter any facility listed in this standard for maintenance or inspection purposes, ladders, platforms, or staging shall be provided. No person shall enter the facility until the supply and discharge of materials have ceased and the supply and discharge equipment is locked out. Persons entering the facility shall wear a safety belt or harness equipped with a lifeline suitably fastened. A second person, similarly equipped, shall be stationed near where the lifeline is fastened and shall constantly adjust it or keep it tight as needed, with minimum slack.
§ 56.16003
Storage of hazardous materials.
Materials that can create hazards if accidentally liberated from their containers shall be stored in a manner that minimizes the dangers.
§ 56.16004
Containers for hazardous materials.
Containers holding hazardous materials must be of a type approved for such use by recognized agencies.
[67 FR 42389, June 21, 2002]
§ 56.16005
Securing gas cylinders.
Compressed and liquid gas cylinders shall be secured in a safe manner.
§ 56.16006
Protection of gas cylinder valves.
Valves on compressed gas cylinders shall be protected by covers when being transported or stored, and by a safe location when the cylinders are in use.
§ 56.16007
Taglines, hitches, and slings.
(a) Taglines shall be attached to loads that may require steadying or guidance while suspended.
(b) Hitches and slings used to hoist materials shall be suitable for the particular material handled.
§ 56.16009
Suspended loads.
Persons shall stay clear of suspended loads.
§ 56.16010
Dropping materials from overhead.
To protect personnel, material shall not be dropped from an overhead elevation until the drop area is first cleared of personnel and the area is then either guarded or a suitable warning is given.
§ 56.16011
Riding hoisted loads or on the hoist hook.
Persons shall not ride on loads being moved by cranes or derricks, nor shall they ride the hoisting hooks unless such method eliminates a greater hazard.
§ 56.16012
Storage of incompatible substances.
Chemical substances, including concentrated acids and alkalies, shall be stored to prevent inadvertent contact with each other or with other substances, where such contact could cause a violent reaction or the liberation of harmful fumes or gases.
§ 56.16013
Working with molten metal.
Suitable warning shall be given before molten metal is poured and before a container of molten metal is moved.
§ 56.16014
Operator-carrying overhead cranes.
Operator-carrying overhead cranes shall be provided with—
(a) Bumpers at each end of each rail;
(b) Automatic switches to halt uptravel of the blocks before they strike the hoist;
(c) Effective audible warning signals within easy reach of the operator; and
(d) A means to lock out the disconnect switch.
§ 56.16015
Work or travel on overhead crane bridges.
No person shall work from or travel on the bridge of an overhead crane unless the bridge is provided with substantial footwalks with toeboards and railings the length of the bridge.
§ 56.16016
Lift trucks.
Fork and other similar types of lift trucks shall be operated with the—
(a) Upright tilted back to steady and secure the load;
(b) Load in the upgrade position when ascending or descending grades in excess of 10 percent;
(c) Load not raised or lowered enroute except for minor adjustments; and
(d) Load-engaging device downgrade when traveling unloaded on all grades.

# Subpart P—Illumination
§ 56.17001
Illumination of surface working areas.
Illumination sufficient to provide safe working conditions shall be provided in and on all surface structures, paths, walkways, stairways, switch panels, loading and dumping sites, and work areas.

# Subpart Q—Safety Programs
§ 56.18002
Examination of working places.
(a) A competent person designated by the operator shall examine each working place at least once each shift before miners begin work in that place, for conditions that may adversely affect safety or health.
(1) The operator shall promptly notify miners in any affected areas of any conditions found that may adversely affect safety or health and promptly initiate appropriate action to correct such conditions.
(2) Conditions noted by the person conducting the examination that may present an imminent danger shall be brought to the immediate attention of the operator who shall withdraw all persons from the area affected (except persons referred to in section 104(c) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977) until the danger is abated.
(b) A record of each examination shall be made before the end of the shift for which the examination was conducted. The record shall contain the name of the person conducting the examination; date of the examination; location of all areas examined; and description of each condition found that may adversely affect the safety or health of miners.
(c) When a condition that may adversely affect safety or health is corrected, the examination record shall include, or be supplemented to include, the date of the corrective action.
(d) The operator shall maintain the examination records for at least one year, make the records available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representatives of miners, and provide these representatives a copy on request.
[84 FR 51401, Sept. 30, 2019]
§ 56.18006
New employees.
New employees shall be indoctrinated in safety rules and safe work procedures.
§ 56.18009
Designation of person in charge.
When persons are working at the mine, a competent person designated by the mine operator shall be in attendance to take charge in case of an emergency.
§ 56.18010
First aid.
An individual capable of providing first aid shall be available on all shifts. The individual shall be currently trained and have the skills to perform patient assessment and artificial respiration; control bleeding; and treat shock, wounds, burns, and musculoskeletal injuries. First aid training shall be made available to all interested miners.
[61 FR 50436, Sept. 26, 1996]
§ 56.18012
Emergency telephone numbers.
Emergency telephone numbers shall be posted at appropriate telephones.
§ 56.18013
Emergency communications system.
A suitable communication system shall be provided at the mine to obtain assistance in the event of an emergency.
§ 56.18014
Emergency medical assistance and transportation.
Arrangements shall be made in advance for obtaining emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons.
§ 56.18020
Working alone.
No employee shall be assigned, or allowed, or be required to perform work alone in any area where hazardous conditions exist that would endanger his
safety unless he can communicate with others, can be heard, or can be seen.

# Subpart R—Personnel Hoisting
§ 56.19000
Application.
(a) The hoisting standards in this subpart apply to those hoists and appurtenances used for hoisting persons. However, where persons may be endangered by hoists and appurtenances used solely for handling ore, rock, and materials, the appropriate standards should be applied.
(b) Standards 56.19021 through 56.19028 apply to wire ropes in service used to hoist persons with an incline hoist on the surface.
(c) Emergency hoisting facilities should conform to the extent possible to safety requirements for other hoists, and should be adequate to remove the persons from the mine with a minimum of delay.

# Hoists
§ 56.19001
Rated capacities.
Hoists shall have rated capacities consistent with the loads handled and the recommended safety factors of the ropes used.
§ 56.19002
Anchoring.
Hoists shall be anchored securely.
§ 56.19003
Driving mechanism connections.
Belt, rope, or chains shall not be used to connect driving mechanisms to man hoists.
§ 56.19004
Brakes.
Any hoist used to hoist persons shall be equipped with a brake or brakes which shall be capable of holding its fully loaded cage, skip, or bucket at any point in the shaft.
§ 56.19005
Locking mechanism for clutch.
The operating mechanism of the clutch of every man-hoist drum shall be provided with a locking mechanism, or interlocked electrically or mechanically with the brake to prevent accidental withdrawal of the clutch.
§ 56.19006
Automatic hoist braking devices.
Automatic hoists shall be provided with devices that automatically apply the brakes in the event of power failure.
§ 56.19007
Overtravel and overspeed devices.
All man hoists shall be provided with devices to prevent overtravel. When utilized in shafts exceeding 100 feet in depth, such hoists shall also be provided with overspeed devices.
§ 56.19008
Friction hoist synchronizing mechanisms.
Where creep or slip may alter the effective position of safety devices, friction hoists shall be equipped with synchronizing mechanisms that recalibrate the overtravel devices and position indicators.
§ 56.19009
Position indicator.
An accurate and reliable indicator of the position of the cage, skip, bucket, or cars in the shaft shall be provided.
§ 56.19010
Location of hoist controls.
Hoist controls shall be placed or housed so that the noise from machinery or other sources will not prevent hoistmen from hearing signals.
§ 56.19011
Drum flanges.
Flanges on drums shall extend radially a minimum of 4 inches or three rope diameters beyond the last wrap, whichever is the lesser.
§ 56.19012
Grooved drums.
Where grooved drums are used, the grooves shall be of suitable size and pitch for the ropes used.
§ 56.19013
Diesel- and other fuel-injection-powered hoists.
Where any diesel or similar fuel-injection engine is used to power a hoist, the engine shall be equipped with a damper or other cutoff in its air intake system. The control handle shall be clearly labeled to indicate that its intended function is for emergency stopping only.
§ 56.19014
Friction hoist overtravel protection.
In a friction hoist installation, tapered guides or other approved devices shall be installed above and below the limits of regular travel of the conveyance and arranged to prevent overtravel in the event of failure of other devices.
§ 56.19017
Emergency braking for electric hoists.
Each electric hoist shall be equipped with a manually-operable switch that will initiate emergency braking action to bring the conveyance and the counterbalance safely to rest. This switch shall be located within reach of the hoistman in case the manual controls of the hoist fail.
§ 56.19018
Overtravel by-pass switches.
When an overtravel by-pass switch is installed, the switch shall function so as to allow the conveyance to be moved through the overtravel position when the switch is held in the closed position by the hoistman. The overtravel by-pass switch shall return automatically to the open position when released by the hoistman.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985; 50 FR 20100, May 14, 1985]

# Wire Ropes

# Authority:
Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811).
§ 56.19021
Minimum rope strength.
At installation, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of wire ropes used for hoisting shall meet the minimum rope strength values obtained by the following formulas in which “L” equals the maximum suspended rope length in feet:
(a)
Winding drum ropes
(all constructions, including rotation resistant).
For rope lengths less than 3,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static
Load × (7.0-0.001L)
For rope lengths 3,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 4.0
(b)
Friction drum ropes.
For rope lengths less than 4,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static
Load × (7.0-0.0005L)
For rope lengths 4,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 5.0
(c)
Tail ropes
(balance ropes).
Minimum Value = Weight of Rope × 7.0
§ 56.19022
Initial measurement.
After initial rope stretch but before visible wear occurs, the rope diameter of newly installed wire ropes shall be measured at least once in every third interval of active length and the measurements averaged to establish a baseline for subsequent measurements. A record of the measurements and the date shall be made by the person taking the measurements. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 56.19023
Examinations.
(a) At least once every fourteen calendar days, each wire rope in service shall be visually examined along its entire active length for visible structural damage, corrosion, and improper lubrication or dressing. In addition, visual examination for wear and broken wires shall be made at stress points, including the area near attachments, where the rope rests on sheaves, where the rope leaves the drum, at drum crossovers, and at change-of-layer regions. When any visible condition that results in a reduction of rope strength is present, the affected portion of the rope shall be examined on a daily basis.
(b) Before any person is hoisted with a newly installed wire rope or any wire rope that has not been examined in the previous fourteen calendar days, the wire rope shall be examined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) At least once every six months, nondestructive tests shall be conducted of the active length of the rope, or rope diameter measurements shall be made—
(1) Wherever wear is evident;
(2) Where the hoist rope rests on sheaves at regular stopping points;
(3) Where the hoist rope leaves the drum at regular stopping points; and
(4) At drum crossover and change-of-layer regions.
(d) At the completion of each examination required by paragraph (a) of this section, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any condition listed in paragraph (a) of this section is present, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records of examinations shall be retained for one year.
(e) The person making the measurements or nondestructive tests as required by paragraph (c) of this section shall record the measurements or test results and the date. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 56.19024
Retirement criteria.
Unless damage or deterioration is removed by cutoff, wire ropes shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions occurs:
(a) The number of broken wires within a rope lay length, excluding filler wires, exceeds either—
(1) Five percent of the total number of wires; or
(2) Fifteen percent of the total number of wires within any strand.
(b) On a regular lay rope, more than one broken wire in the valley between strands in one rope lay length.
(c) A loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outer wires.
(d) Rope deterioration from corrosion.
(e) Distortion of the rope structure.
(f) Heat damage from any source.
(g) Diameter reduction due to wear that exceeds six percent of the baseline diameter measurement.
(h) Loss of more than ten percent of rope strength as determined by nondestructive testing.
§ 56.19025
Load end attachments.
(a) Wire rope shall be attached to the load by a method that develops at least 80 percent of the nominal strength of the rope.
(b) Except for terminations where use of other materials is a design feature, zinc (spelter) shall be used for socketing wire ropes. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(c) Load end attachment methods using splices are prohibited.
§ 56.19026
Drum end attachment.
(a) For drum end attachment, wire rope shall be attached—
(1) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the drum spoke;
(2) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the shaft, if the drum is fixed to the shaft; or
(3) By properly assembled anchor bolts, clamps, or wedges, provided that the attachment is a design feature of the hoist drum. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(b) A minimum of three full turns of wire rope shall be on the drum when the rope is extended to its maximum working length.
§ 56.19027
End attachment retermination.
Damaged or deteriorated wire rope shall be removed by cutoff and the rope reterminated where there is—
(a) More than one broken wire at an attachment;
(b) Improper installation of an attachment;
(c) Slippage at an attachment; or
(d) Evidence of deterioration from corrosion at an attachment.
§ 56.19028
End attachment replacement.
Wire rope attachments shall be replaced when cracked, deformed, or excessively worn.
§ 56.19030
Safety device attachments.
Safety device attachments to hoist ropes shall be selected, installed, and maintained according to manufacturers' specifications to minimize internal corrosion and weakening of the hoist rope.

# Headframes and Sheaves
§ 56.19035
Headframe design.
All headframes shall be constructed with suitable design considerations to allow for all dead loads, live loads, and wind loads.
§ 56.19036
Headframe height.
Headframes shall be high enough to provide clearance for overtravel and safe stopping of the conveyance.
§ 56.19037
Fleet angles.
Fleet angles on hoists installed after November 15, 1979, shall not be greater than one and one-half degrees for smooth drums or two degrees for grooved drums.
§ 56.19038
Platforms around elevated head sheaves.
Platforms with toeboards and handrails shall be provided around elevated head sheaves.

# Conveyances
§ 56.19045
Metal bonnets.
Man cages and skips used for hoisting or lowering employees or other persons in any vertical shaft or any incline-shaft with an angle of inclination of forty-five degrees from the horizontal, shall be covered with a metal bonnet.
§ 56.19049
Hoisting persons in buckets.
Buckets shall not be used to hoist persons except during shaft sinking operations, inspection, maintenance, and repairs.
§ 56.19050
Bucket requirements.
Buckets used to hoist persons during vertical shaft sinking operations shall—
(a) Be securely attached to a crosshead when traveling in either direction between the lower and upper crosshead parking locations;
(b) Have overhead protection when the shaft depth exceeds 50 feet;
(c) Have sufficient depth or a suitably designed platform to transport persons safely in a standing position; and
(d) Have devices to prevent accidental dumping where the bucket is supported by a bail attached to its lower half.
§ 56.19054
Rope guides.
Where rope guides are used in shafts other than in shaft sinking operations, the rope guides shall be a type of lock coil construction.

# Hoisting Procedures
§ 56.19055
Availability of hoist operator for manual hoists.
When a manually operated hoist is used, a qualified hoistman shall remain within hearing of the telephone or signal device at all times while any person is underground.
§ 56.19056
Availability of hoist operator for automatic hoists.
When automatic hoisting is used, a competent operator of the hoist shall be readily available at or near the hoisting device while any person is underground.
§ 56.19057
Hoist operator's physical fitness.
No person shall operate a hoist unless within the preceding 12 months he has had a medical examination by a qualified, licensed physician who shall certify his fitness to perform this duty. Such certification shall be available at the mine.
§ 56.19058
Experienced hoist operators.
Only experienced hoistmen shall operate the hoist except in cases of emergency and in the training of new hoistmen.
§ 56.19061
Maximum hoisting speeds.
The safe speed for hoisting persons shall be determined for each shaft, and this speed shall not be exceeded. Persons should not be hoisted at a speed faster than 2,500 feet per minute, except in an emergency.
§ 56.19062
Maximum acceleration and deceleration.
Maximum normal operating acceleration and deceleration shall not exceed 6 feet per second per second. During emergency braking, the deceleration
shall not exceed 16 feet per second per second.
§ 56.19063
Persons allowed in hoist room.
Only authorized persons shall be in hoist rooms.
§ 56.19065
Lowering conveyances by the brakes.
Conveyances shall not be lowered by the brakes alone except during emergencies.
§ 56.19066
Maximum riders in a conveyance.
In shafts inclined over 45 degrees, the operator shall determine and post in the conveyance or at each shaft station the maximum number of persons permitted to ride in a hoisting conveyance at any one time. Each person shall be provided a minimum of 1.5 square feet of floor space.
§ 56.19067
Trips during shift changes.
During shift changes, an authorized person shall be in charge of each trip in which persons are hoisted.
§ 56.19068
Orderly conduct in conveyances.
Persons shall enter, ride, and leave conveyances in an orderly manner.
§ 56.19069
Entering and leaving conveyances.
Persons shall not enter or leave conveyances which are in motion or after a signal to move the conveyance has been given to the hoistman.
§ 56.19070
Closing cage doors or gates.
Cage doors or gates shall be closed while persons are being hoisted; they shall not be opened until the cage has come to a stop.
§ 56.19071
Riding in skips or buckets.
Persons shall not ride in skips or buckets with muck, supplies, materials, or tools other than small hand tools.
§ 56.19072
Skips and cages in same compartment.
When combinations of cages and skips are used in the same compartment, the cages shall be enclosed to protect personnel from flying material and the hoist speed reduced to man-speed as defined in standard 56.19061, but not to exceed 1,000 feet per minute. Muck shall not be hoisted with personnel during shift changes.
§ 56.19073
Hoisting during shift changes.
Rock or supplies shall not be hoisted in the same shaft as persons during shift changes, unless the compartments and dumping bins are partitioned to prevent spillage into the cage compartment.
§ 56.19074
Riding the bail, rim, bonnet, or crosshead.
Persons shall not ride the bail, rim, bonnet, or crosshead of any shaft conveyance except when necessary for inspection and maintenance, and then only when suitable protection for persons is provided.
§ 56.19075
Use of open hooks.
Open hooks shall not be used to hoist buckets or other conveyances.
§ 56.19076
Maximum speeds for hoisting persons in buckets.
When persons are hoisted in buckets, speeds shall not exceed 500 feet per minute and shall not exceed 200 feet per minute when within 100 feet of the intended station.
§ 56.19077
Lowering buckets.
Buckets shall be stopped about 15 feet from the shaft bottom to await a signal from one of the crew on the bottom for further lowering.
§ 56.19078
Hoisting buckets from the shaft bottom.
All buckets shall be stopped after being raised about 3 feet above the shaft bottom. A bucket shall be stabilized before a hoisting signal is given to continue hoisting the bucket to the crosshead. After a hoisting signal is given, hoisting to the crosshead shall be at a minimum speed. The signaling device shall be attended constantly until a bucket reaches the guides. When persons are hoisted, the signaling devices shall be attended until the crosshead has been engaged.
§ 56.19079
Blocking mine cars.
Where mine cars are hoisted by cage or skip, means for blocking cars shall be provided at all landings and also on the cage.
§ 56.19080
Hoisting tools, timbers, and other materials.
When tools, timbers, or other materials are being lowered or raised in a shaft by means of a bucket, skip, or cage, they shall be secured or so placed that they will not strike the sides of the shaft.
§ 56.19081
Conveyances not in use.
When conveyances controlled by a hoist operator are not in use, they shall be released and the conveyances shall be raised or lowered a suitable distance to prevent persons from boarding or loading the conveyances.
§ 56.19083
Overtravel backout device.
A manually operated device shall be installed on each electric hoist that will allow the conveyance or counterbalance to be removed from an over-travel position. Such device shall not release the brake, or brakes, holding the overtravelled conveyance or counterbalance until sufficient drive motor torque has been developed to assure movement of the conveyance or counterbalance in the correct direction only.

# Signaling
§ 56.19090
Dual signaling systems.
There shall be at least two effective approved methods of signaling between each of the shaft stations and the hoist room, one of which shall be a telephone or speaking tube.
§ 56.19091
Signaling instructions to hoist operator.
Hoist operators shall accept hoisting instructions only by the regular signaling system unless it is out of order. In such an event, and during other emergencies, the hoist operator shall accept instructions to direct movement of the conveyances only from authorized persons.
§ 56.19092
Signaling from conveyances.
A method shall be provided to signal the hoist operator from cages or other conveyances at any point in the shaft.
§ 56.19093
Standard signal code.
A standard code of hoisting signals shall be adopted and used at each mine. The movement of a shaft conveyance on a “one bell” signal is prohibited.
§ 56.19094
Posting signal code.
A legible signal code shall be posted prominently in the hoist house within easy view of the hoistman, and at each place where signals are given or received.
§ 56.19095
Location of signal devices.
Hoisting signal devices shall be positioned within easy reach of persons on the shaft bottom or constantly attended by a person stationed on the lower deck of the sinking platform.
§ 56.19096
Familiarity with signal code.
Any person responsible for receiving or giving signals for cages, skips, and mantrips when persons or materials are being transported shall be familiar with the posted signaling code.

# Shafts
§ 56.19100
Shaft landing gates.
Shaft landings shall be equipped with substantial safety gates so constructed that materials will not go through or under them; gates shall be closed except when loading or unloading shaft conveyances.
§ 56.19101
Stopblocks and derail switches.
Positive stopblocks or a derail switch shall be installed on all tracks leading to a shaft collar or landing.
§ 56.19102
Shaft guides.
A means shall be provided to guide the movement of a shaft conveyance.
§ 56.19103
Dumping facilities and loading pockets.
Dumping facilities and loading pockets shall be constructed so as to minimize spillage into the shaft.
§ 56.19104
Clearance at shaft stations.
Suitable clearance at shaft stations shall be provided to allow safe movement of persons, equipment, and materials.
§ 56.19105
Landings with more than one shaft entrance.
A safe means of passage around open shaft compartments shall be provided on landings with more than one entrance to the shaft.
§ 56.19106
Shaft sets.
Shaft sets shall be kept in good repair and clean of hazardous material.
§ 56.19107
Precautions for work in compartment affected by hoisting operation.
Hoistmen shall be informed when persons are working in a compartment affected by that hoisting operation and a “Men Working in Shaft” sign shall be posted at the hoist.
§ 56.19108
Posting warning signs during shaft work.
When persons are working in a shaft “Men Working in Shaft” signs shall be posted at all devices controlling hoisting operations that may endanger such persons.
§ 56.19109
Shaft inspection and repair.
Shaft inspection and repair work in vertical shafts shall be performed from substantial platforms equipped with bonnets or equivalent overhead protection.
§ 56.19110
Overhead protection for shaft deepening work.
A substantial bulkhead or equivalent protection shall be provided above persons at work deepening a shaft.
§ 56.19111
Shaft-sinking ladders.
Substantial fixed ladders shall be provided from the collar to as near the shaft bottom as practical during shaft-sinking operations, or an escape hoist powered by an emergency power source shall be provided. When persons are on the shaft bottom, a chain ladder, wire rope ladder, or other extension ladders shall be used from the fixed ladder or lower limit of the escape hoist to the shaft bottom.

# Inspection and Maintenance
§ 56.19120
Procedures for inspection, testing, and maintenance.
A systematic procedure of inspection, testing, and maintenance of shafts and hoisting equipment shall be developed and followed. If it is found or suspected that any part is not functioning properly, the hoist shall not be used until the malfunction has been located and repaired or adjustments have been made.
§ 56.19121
Recordkeeping.
At the time of completion, the person performing inspections, tests, and maintenance of hoisting equipment required in standard 56.19120 shall certify, by signature and date, that they have been done. A record of any part that is not functioning properly shall be made and dated. Certifications and records shall be retained for one year.
(Sec. 101, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 56.19122
Replacement parts.
Parts used to repair hoists shall have properties that will ensure the proper and safe function of the hoist.
§ 56.19129
Examinations and tests at beginning of shift.
Hoistmen shall examine their hoists and shall test overtravel, deadman controls, position indicators, and braking mechanisms at the beginning of each shift.
§ 56.19130
Conveyance shaft test.
Before hoisting persons and to assure that the hoisting compartments are clear of obstructions, empty hoist conveyances shall be operated at least one round trip after:
(a) Any hoist or shaft repairs or related equipment repairs that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance;
(b) Any oversize or overweight material or equipment trips that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance;
(c) Blasting in or near the shaft that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance; or
(d) Remaining idle for one shift or longer.
§ 56.19131
Hoist conveyance connections.
Hoist conveyance connections shall be inspected at least once during any 24-hour period that the conveyance is used for hoisting persons.
§ 56.19132
Safety catches.
(a) A performance drop test of hoist conveyance safety catches shall be made at the time of installation, or prior to installation, in a mockup of the actual installation. The test shall be certified to in writing by the manufacturer or by a registered professional engineer performing the test.
(b) After installation and before use, and at the beginning of any seven day period during which the conveyance is to be used, the conveyance shall be suitably rested and the hoist rope slackened to test for the unrestricted functioning of the safety catches and their activating mechanisms.
(c) The safety catches shall be inspected by a competent person at the beginning of any 24-hour period that the conveyance is to be used.
§ 56.19133
Shaft.
Shafts that have not been inspected within the past 7 days shall not be used until an inspection has been conducted by a competent person.
§ 56.19134
Sheaves.
Sheaves in operating shafts shall be inspected weekly and kept properly lubricated.
§ 56.19135
Rollers in inclined shafts.
Rollers used in operating inclined shafts shall be lubricated, properly aligned, and kept in good repair.

# Subpart S—Miscellaneous
§ 56.20001
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics shall not be permitted or used in or around mines. Persons under the influence of alcohol or narcotics shall not be permitted on the job.
§ 56.20002
Potable water.
(a) An adequate supply of potable drinking water shall be provided at all active working areas.
(b) The common drinking cup and containers from which drinking water must be dipped or poured are prohibited.
(c) Where single service cups are supplied, a sanitary container for unused cups and a receptacle for used cups shall be provided.
(d) When water is cooled by ice, the ice shall either be of potable water or shall not come in contact with the water.
(e) Potable water outlets shall be posted.
(f) Potable water systems shall be constructed to prevent backflow or backsiphonage of non-potable water.
§ 56.20003
Housekeeping.
At all mining operations—
(a) Workplaces, passageways, storerooms, and service rooms shall be kept clean and orderly;
(b) The floor of every workplace shall be maintained in a clean and, so far as possible, dry condition. Where wet processes are used, drainage shall be maintained, and false floors, platforms, mats, or other dry standing places shall be provided where practicable; and
(c) Every floor, working place, and passageway shall be kept free from protruding nails, splinters, holes, or loose boards, as practicable.
§ 56.20005
Carbon tetrachloride.
Carbon tetrachloride shall not be used.
§ 56.20008
Toilet facilities.
(a) Toilet facilities shall be provided at locations that are compatible with the mine operations and that are readily accessible to mine personnel.
(b) The facilities shall be kept clean and sanitary. Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex except where toilet rooms will be occupied by no more than one person at a time and can be locked from the inside.
§ 56.20009
Tests for explosive dusts.
Dusts suspected of being explosive shall be tested for explosibility. If tests prove positive, appropriate control measures shall be taken.
§ 56.20010
Retaining dams.
If failure of a water or silt retaining dam will create a hazard, it shall be of substantial construction and inspected at regular intervals.
§ 56.20011
Barricades and warning signs.
Areas where health or safety hazards exist that are not immediately obvious to employees shall be barricaded, or warning signs shall be posted at all approaches. Warning signs shall be readily visible, legible, and display the nature of the hazard and any protective action required.
§ 56.20013
Waste receptacles.
Receptacles with covers shall be provided at suitable locations and used for the disposal of waste food and associated materials. They shall be emptied frequently and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
§ 56.20014
Prohibited areas for food and beverages.
No person shall be allowed to consume or store food or beverages in a toilet room or in any area exposed to a toxic material.

# Subpart T—Safety Program for Surface Mobile Equipment

# Source:
88 FR 87926, Dec. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 56.23000
Purpose and scope.
This subpart requires operators to develop, implement, and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment to reduce the number and rates of accidents, injuries, and fatalities. This subpart applies to surface mobile equipment at surface metal and nonmetal mines. The purpose of this safety program is to promote and support a positive safety culture and improve miners' safety at the mine.
§ 56.23001
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart—
Responsible person
means a person with authority and responsibility to evaluate and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment.
Surface mobile equipment
means wheeled, skid-mounted, track-mounted, or rail-mounted equipment capable of moving or being moved, and any powered equipment that transports people, equipment, or materials, excluding belt conveyors, at surface metal and nonmetal mines.
§ 56.23002
Written safety program.
(a) Each operator shall develop and implement a written safety program for surface mobile equipment that contains the elements in this subpart, no later than July 17, 2024.
(b) Each operator shall designate at least one responsible person to evaluate and update the written safety program, no later than July 17, 2024.
§ 56.23003
Requirements for written safety program.
(a) The operator shall develop and implement a written safety program that includes actions the operator will take to:
(1) Identify and analyze hazards and reduce the resulting risks related to the movement and the operation of surface mobile equipment;
(2) Develop and maintain procedures and schedules for routine maintenance and non-routine repairs for surface mobile equipment;
(3) Identify currently available and newly emerging feasible technologies that can enhance safety at the mine and evaluate whether to adopt them; and
(4) Train miners and other persons at the mine necessary to perform work to identify and address or avoid hazards related to surface mobile equipment.
(b) The responsible person shall evaluate and update the written safety program at least annually, or as mining conditions or practices change that may adversely affect the health and safety of miners or other persons, as accidents or injuries occur, or as surface mobile equipment changes or modifications are made.
(c) The operator shall solicit input from miners and their representatives in developing and updating the written safety program.
§ 56.23004
Record and inspection.
(a) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and provide a copy upon request.
(b) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by miners and their representatives and, at no cost, provide a copy upon request.
Pt. 57

# PART 57—SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS—UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
57.1
Purpose and scope.
57.2
Definitions.

# Procedures
57.1000
Notification of commencement of operations and closing of mines.

# Subpart B—Ground Control
57.3000
Definitions.

# Scaling and Support—Surface and Underground
57.3200
Correction of hazardous conditions.
57.3201
Location for performing scaling.
57.3202
Scaling tools.
57.3203
Rock fixtures.

# Scaling and Support—Underground Only
57.3360
Ground support use.

# Precautions—Surface and Underground
57.3400
Secondary breakage.
57.3401
Examination of ground conditions.

# Precautions—Surface Only
57.3430
Activity between machinery or equipment and the highwall or bank.

# Precautions—Underground Only
57.3460
Maintenance between machinery or equipment and ribs.
57.3461
Rock bursts.

# Subpart C—Fire Prevention and Control
57.4000
Definitions.
57.4011
Abandoned electric circuits.
57.4057
Underground trailing cables.

# Prohibitions/Precautions/Housekeeping
57.4100
Smoking and use of open flames.
57.4101
Warning signs.
57.4102
Spillage and leakage.
57.4103
Fueling internal combustion engines.
57.4104
Combustible waste.
57.4130
Surface electric substations and liquid storage facilities.
57.4131
Surface fan installations and mine openings.
57.4160
Underground electric substations and liquid storage facilities.
57.4161
Use of fire underground.

# Firefighting Equipment
57.4200
General requirements.
57.4201
Inspection.
57.4202
Fire hydrants.
57.4203
Extinguisher recharging or replacement.
57.4230
Surface self-propelled equipment.
57.4260
Underground self-propelled equipment.
57.4261
Shaft-station waterlines.
57.4262
Underground transformer stations, combustible liquid storage and dispensing areas, pump rooms, compressor rooms, and hoist rooms.
57.4263
Underground belt conveyors.

# Firefighting Procedures/Alarms/Drills
57.4330
Surface firefighting, evacuation, and rescue procedures.
57.4331
Surface firefighting drills.
57.4360
Underground alarm systems.
57.4361
Underground evacuation drills.
57.4362
Underground rescue and firefighting operations.
57.4363
Underground evacuation instruction.

# Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases
57.4400
Use restrictions.
57.4401
Storage tank foundations.
57.4402
Safety can use.
57.4430
Surface storage facilities.
57.4431
Surface storage restrictions.
57.4460
Storage of flammable liquids underground.
57.4461
Gasoline use restrictions underground.
57.4462
Storage of combustible liquids underground.
57.4463
Liquefied petroleum gas use underground.

# Installation/Construction/Maintenance
57.4500
Heat sources.
57.4501
Fuel lines.
57.4502
Battery-charging stations.
57.4503
Conveyor belt slippage.
57.4504
Fan installations.
57.4505
Fuel lines to underground areas.
57.4530
Exits for surface buildings and structures.
57.4531
Surface flammable or combustible liquid storage buildings or rooms.
57.4532
Blacksmith shops.
57.4533
Mine opening vicinity.
57.4560
Mine entrances.
57.4561
Stationary diesel equipment underground.

# Welding/Cutting/Compressed Gases
57.4600
Extinguishing equipment.
57.4601
Oxygen cylinder storage.
57.4602
Gauges and regulators.
57.4603
Closure of valves.
57.4604
Preparation of pipelines or containers.
57.4660
Work in shafts, raises, or winzes and other activities involving hazard areas.

# Ventilation Control Measures
57.4760
Shaft mines.
57.4761
Underground shops.
Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 57—National Consensus Standards

# Subpart D—Air Quality, Radiation, Physical Agents, and Diesel Particulate Matter

# Air Quality—Surface and Underground
57.5001
Exposure limits for airborne contaminants.
57.5001T
Exposure limits for airborne contaminants.
57.5002
Exposure monitoring.
57.5005
Control of exposure to airborne contaminants.
57.5005T
Control of exposure to airborne contaminants.
57.5006
Restricted use of chemicals.
Air Quality—Surface Only [Reserved]

# Air Quality—Underground Only
57.5015
Oxygen deficiency.

# Radiation—Underground Only
57.5037
Radon daughter exposure monitoring.
57.5038
Annual exposure limits.
57.5039
Maximum permissible concentration.
57.5040
Exposure records.
57.5041
Smoking prohibition.
57.5042
Revised exposure levels.
57.5044
Respirators.
57.5045
Posting of inactive workings.
57.5046
Protection against radon gas.
57.5047
Gamma radiation surveys.

# Diesel Particulate Matter—Underground Only
57.5060
Limit on exposure to diesel particulate matter.
57.5061
Compliance determinations.
57.5065
Fueling practices.
57.5066
Maintenance standards.
57.5067
Engines.
57.5070
Miner training.
57.5071
Exposure monitoring.
57.5075
Diesel particulate records.

# Subpart E—Explosives
57.6000
Definitions.

# Storage—Surface and Underground
57.6100
Separation of stored explosive material.
57.6101
Areas around explosive material storage facilities.
57.6102
Explosive material storage practices.

# Storage—Surface Only
57.6130
Explosive material storage facilities.
57.6131
Location of explosive material storage facilities.
57.6132
Magazine requirements.
57.6133
Powder chests.

# Storage—Underground Only
57.6160
Main facilities.
57.6161
Auxiliary facilities.

# Transportation—Surface and Underground
57.6200
Delivery to storage or blast site areas.
57.6201
Separation of transported explosive material.
57.6202
Vehicles.
57.6203
Locomotives.
57.6204
Hoists.
57.6205
Conveying explosives by hand.

# Use—Surface and Underground
57.6300
Control of blasting operations.
57.6301
Blasthole obstruction check.
57.6302
Separation of explosive material.
57.6303
Initiation preparation.
57.6304
Primer protection.
57.6305
Unused explosive material.
57.6306
Loading, blasting, and security.
57.6307
Drill stem loading.
57.6308
Initiation systems.
57.6309
Fuel oil requirements for ANFO.
57.6310
Misfire waiting period.
57.6311
Handling of misfires.
57.6312
Secondary blasting.

# Electric Blasting—Surface and Underground
57.6400
Compatibility of electric detonators.
57.6401
Shunting.
57.6402
Deenergized circuits near detonators.
57.6403
Branch circuits.
57.6404
Separation of blasting circuits from power source.
57.6405
Firing devices.
57.6406
Duration of current flow.
57.6407
Circuit testing.

# Nonelectric Blasting—Surface and Underground
57.6500
Damaged initiating material.
57.6501
Nonelectric initiation systems.
57.6502
Safety fuse.

# Extraneous Electricity—Surface and Underground
57.6600
Loading practices.
57.6601
Grounding.
57.6602
Static electricity dissipation during loading.
57.6603
Air gap.
57.6604
Precautions during storms.
57.6605
Isolation of blasting circuits.

# Equipment/Tools—Surface and Underground
57.6700
Nonsparking tools.
57.6701
Tamping and loading pole requirements.

# Maintenance—Surface and Underground
57.6800
Storage facilities.
57.6801
Vehicle repair.
57.6802
Bulk delivery vehicles.
57.6803
Blasting lines.

# General Requirements—Surface and Underground
57.6900
Damaged or deteriorated explosive material.
57.6901
Black powder.
57.6902
Excessive temperatures.
57.6903
Burning explosive material.
57.6904
Smoking and open flames.
57.6905
Protection of explosive material.

# General Requirements—Underground Only
57.6960
Mixing of explosive material.

# Subpart F—Drilling and Rotary Jet Piercing

# Drilling—Surface Only
57.7002
Equipment defects.
57.7003
Drill area inspection.
57.7004
Drill mast.
57.7005
Augers and drill stems.
57.7008
Moving the drill.
57.7009
Drill helpers.
57.7010
Power failures.
57.7011
Straightening crossed cables.
57.7012
Tending drills in operation.
57.7013
Covering or guarding drill holes.
57.7018
Hand clearance.

# Drilling—Underground Only
57.7028
Hand clearance.
57.7032
Anchoring.

# Drilling—Surface and Underground
57.7050
Tool and drill steel racks.
57.7051
Loose objects on the mast or drill platform.
57.7052
Drilling positions.
57.7053
Moving hand-held drills.
57.7054
Starting or moving drill equipment.
57.7055
Intersecting holes.
57.7056
Collaring in bootlegs.

# Rotary Jet Piercing—Surface Only
57.7801
Jet drills.
57.7802
Oxygen hose lines.
57.7803
Lighting the burner.
57.7804
Refueling.
57.7805
Smoking and open flames.
57.7806
Oxygen intake coupling.
57.7807
Flushing the combustion chamber.

# Subpart G—Ventilation

# Surface and Underground
57.8518
Main and booster fans.
57.8519
Underground main fan controls.

# Underground Only
57.8520
Ventilation plan.
57.8525
Main fan maintenance.
57.8527
Oxygen-deficiency testing.
57.8528
Unventilated areas.
57.8529
Auxiliary fan systems.
57.8531
Construction and maintenance of ventilation doors.
57.8532
Opening and closing ventilation doors.
57.8534
Shutdown or failure of auxiliary fans.
57.8535
Seals.

# Subpart H—Loading, Hauling, and Dumping

# Traffic Safety
57.9100
Traffic control.
57.9101
Operating speeds and control of equipment.
57.9102
Movement of independently operating rail equipment.
57.9103
Clearance on adjacent tracks.
57.9104
Railroad crossings.
57.9160
Train movement during shift changes.

# Transportation of Persons and Materials
57.9200
Transporting persons.
57.9201
Loading, hauling, and unloading of equipment or supplies.
57.9202
Loading and hauling large rocks.
57.9260
Supplies, materials, and tools on mantrips.
57.9261
Transporting tools and materials on locomotives.

# Safety Devices, Provisions, and Procedures for Roadways, Railroads, and Loading and Dumping Sites
57.9300
Berms or guardrails.
57.9301
Dump site restraints.
57.9302
Protection against moving or runaway railroad equipment.
57.9303
Construction of ramps and dumping facilities.
57.9304
Unstable ground.
57.9305
Truck spotters.
57.9306
Warning devices for restricted clearances.
57.9307
Design, installation, and maintenance of railroads.
57.9308
Switch throws.
57.9309
Chute design.
57.9310
Chute hazards.
57.9311
Anchoring stationary sizing devices.
57.9312
Working around drawholes.
57.9313
Roadway maintenance.
57.9314
Trimming stockpile and muckpile faces.
57.9315
Dust control.
57.9316
Notifying the equipment operator.
57.9317
Suspended loads.
57.9318
Getting on or off moving equipment.
57.9319
Going over, under, or between railcars.
57.9330
Clearance for surface equipment.
57.9360
Shelter holes.
57.9361
Drawholes.
57.9362
Protection of signalmen.

# Subpart I—Aerial Tramways
57.10001
Filling buckets.
57.10002
Inspection and maintenance.
57.10003
Correction of defects.
57.10004
Brakes.
57.10005
Track cable connections.
57.10006
Tower guards.
57.10007
Falling object protection.
57.10008
Riding tramways.
57.10009
Riding loaded buckets.
57.10010
Starting precautions.

# Subpart J—Travelways and Escapeways

# Travelways—Surface and Underground
57.11001
Safe access.
57.11002
Handrails and toeboards.
57.11003
Construction and maintenance of ladders.
57.11004
Portable rigid ladders.
57.11005
Fixed ladder anchorage and toe clearance.
57.11006
Fixed ladder landings.
57.11007
Wooden components of ladders.
57.11008
Restricted clearance.
57.11009
Walkways along conveyors.
57.11010
Stairstep clearance.
57.11011
Use of ladders.
57.11012
Protection for openings around travelways.
57.11013
Conveyor crossovers.
57.11014
Crossing moving conveyors.
57.11016
Snow and ice on walkways and travelways.
57.11017
Inclined fixed ladders.

# Travelways—Surface Only
57.11025
Railed landings, backguards, and other protection for fixed ladders.
57.11026
Protection for inclined fixed ladders.
57.11027
Scaffolds and working platforms.

# Travelways—Underground Only
57.11036
Ladderway trap doors and guards.
57.11037
Ladderway openings.
57.11038
Entering a manway.
57.11040
Inclined travelways.
57.11041
Landings for inclined ladderways.

# Escapeways—Underground Only
57.11050
Escapeways and refuges.
57.11051
Escape routes.
57.11052
Refuge areas.
57.11053
Escape and evacuation plans.
57.11054
Communication with refuge chambers.
57.11055
Inclined escapeways.
57.11056
Emergency hoists.
57.11058
Check-in, check-out system.
57.11059
Respirable atmosphere for hoist operators underground.

# Subpart K—Electricity

# Surface and Underground
57.12001
Circuit overload protection.
57.12002
Controls and switches.
57.12003
Trailing cable overload protection.
57.12004
Electrical conductors.
57.12005
Protection of power conductors from mobile equipment.
57.12006
Distribution boxes.
57.12007
Junction box connection procedures.
57.12008
Insulation and fittings for power wires and cables.
57.12010
Isolation or insulation of communication conductors.
57.12011
High-potential electrical conductors.
57.12012
Bare signal wires.
57.12013
Splices and repairs of power cables.
57.12014
Handling energized power cables.
57.12016
Work on electrically-powered equipment.
57.12017
Work on power circuits.
57.12018
Identification of power switches.
57.12019
Access to stationary electrical equipment or switchgear.
57.12020
Protection of persons at switchgear.
57.12021
Danger signs.
57.12022
Authorized persons at major electrical installations.
57.12023
Guarding electrical connections and resistor grids.
57.12025
Grounding circuit enclosures.
57.12026
Grounding transformer and switchgear enclosures.
57.12027
Grounding mobile equipment.
57.12028
Testing grounding systems.
57.12030
Correction of dangerous conditions.
57.12032
Inspection and cover plates.
57.12033
Hand-held electric tools.
57.12034
Guarding around lights.
57.12035
Weatherproof lamp sockets.
57.12036
Fuse removal or replacement.
57.12037
Fuses in high-potential circuits.
57.12038
Attachment of trailing cables.
57.12039
Protection of surplus trailing cables.
57.12040
Installation of operating controls.
57.12041
Design of switches and starting boxes.
57.12042
Track bonding.
57.12045
Overhead powerlines.
57.12047
Guy wires.
57.12048
Communication conductors on power poles.
57.12050
Installation of trolley wires.
57.12053
Circuits powered from trolley wires.

# Surface Only
57.12065
Short circuit and lightning protection.
57.12066
Guarding trolley wires and bare powerlines.
57.12067
Installation of transformers.
57.12068
Locking transformer enclosures.
57.12069
Lightning protection for telephone wires and ungrounded conductors.
57.12071
Movement or operation of equipment near high-voltage powerlines.

# Underground Only
57.12080
Bare conductor guards.
57.12081
Bonding metal pipelines to ground return circuits.
57.12082
Isolation of powerlines.
57.12083
Support of power cables in shafts and boreholes.
57.12084
Branch circuit disconnecting devices.
57.12085
Transformer stations.
57.12086
Location of trolley wire.
57.12088
Splicing trailing cables.

# Subpart L—Compressed Air and Boilers
57.13001
General requirements for boilers and pressure vessels.
57.13010
Reciprocating-type air compressors.
57.13011
Air receiver tanks.
57.13012
Compressor air intakes.
57.13015
Inspection of compressed-air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels.
57.13017
Compressor discharge pipes.
57.13019
Pressure system repairs.
57.13020
Use of compressed air.
57.13021
High-pressure hose connections.
57.13030
Boilers.

# Subpart M—Machinery and Equipment
57.14000
Definitions.

# Safety Devices and Maintenance Requirements
57.14100
Safety defects; examination, correction and records.
57.14101
Brakes.
57.14102
Brakes for rail equipment.
57.14103
Operators' stations.
57.14104
Tire repairs.
57.14105
Procedures during repairs or maintenance.
57.14106
Falling object protection.
57.14107
Moving machine parts.
57.14108
Overhead drive belts.
57.14109
Unguarded conveyors with adjacent travelways.
57.14110
Flying or falling materials.
57.14111
Slusher, backlash guards and securing.
57.14112
Construction and maintenance of guards.
57.14113
Inclined conveyors: backstops or brakes.
57.14114
Air valves for pneumatic equipment.
57.14115
Stationary grinding machines.
57.14116
Hand-held power tools.
57.14130
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts for surface equipment.
57.14131
Seat belts for surface haulage trucks.
57.14132
Horns and back-up alarms for surface equipment.
57.14160
Mantrip trolley wire hazards underground.
57.14161
Makeshift couplings.
57.14162
Trip lights.

# Safety Practices and Operational Procedures
57.14200
Warnings prior to starting or moving equipment.
57.14201
Conveyor start-up warnings.
57.14202
Manual cleaning of conveyor pulleys.
57.14203
Application of belt dressing.
57.14204
Machinery lubrication.
57.14205
Machinery, equipment, and tools.
57.14206
Securing movable parts.
57.14207
Parking procedures for unattended equipment.
57.14208
Warning devices.
57.14209
Safety procedures for towing.
57.14210
Movement of dippers, buckets, loading booms, or suspended loads.
57.14211
Blocking equipment in a raised position.
57.14212
Chains, ropes, and drive belts.
57.14213
Ventilation and shielding for welding.
57.14214
Train warnings.
57.14215
Coupling or uncoupling cars.
57.14216
Backpoling.
57.14217
Securing parked railcars.
57.14218
Movement of equipment on adjacent tracks.
57.14219
Brakeman signals.
Appendix I to Subpart M of Part 57—National Consensus Standards

# Subpart N—Personal Protection

# Surface and Underground
57.15001
First aid materials.
57.15002
Hard hats.
57.15003
Protective footwear.
57.15004
Eye protection.
57.15005
Safety belts and lines.
57.15006
Protective equipment and clothing for hazards and irritants.
57.15007
Protective equipment or clothing for welding, cutting, or working with molten metal.
57.15014
Eye protection when operating grinding wheels.

# Surface Only
57.15020
Life jackets and belts.

# Underground Only
57.15030
Provision and maintenance of self-rescue devices.
57.15031
Location of self-rescue devices.

# Subpart O—Materials Storage and Handling
57.16001
Stacking and storage of materials.
57.16002
Bins, hoppers, silos, tanks, and surge piles.
57.16003
Storage of hazardous materials.
57.16004
Containers for hazardous materials.
57.16005
Securing gas cylinders.
57.16006
Protection of gas cylinder valves.
57.16007
Taglines, hitches, and slings.
57.16009
Suspended loads.
57.16010
Dropping materials from overhead.
57.16011
Riding hoisted loads or on the hoist hook.
57.16012
Storage of incompatible substances.
57.16013
Working with molten metal.
57.16014
Operator-carrying overhead cranes.
57.16015
Work or travel on overhead crane bridges.
57.16016
Lift trucks.
57.16017
Hoisting heavy equipment or material.

# Subpart P—Illumination
57.17001
Illumination of surface working areas.
57.17010
Electric lamps.

# Subpart Q—Safety Programs

# Surface and Underground
57.18002
Examination of working places.
57.18006
New employees.
57.18009
Designation of person in charge.
57.18010
First aid.
57.18012
Emergency telephone numbers.
57.18013
Emergency communications system.
57.18014
Emergency medical assistance and transportation.

# Surface Only
57.18020
Working alone.

# Underground Only
57.18025
Working alone.
57.18028
Mine emergency and self-rescuer training

# Subpart R—Personnel Hoisting
57.19000
Application.

# Hoists
57.19001
Rated capacities.
57.19002
Anchoring.
57.19003
Driving mechanism connections.
57.19004
Brakes.
57.19005
Locking mechanism for clutch.
57.19006
Automatic hoist braking devices.
57.19007
Overtravel and overspeed devices.
57.19008
Friction hoist synchronizing mechanisms.
57.19009
Position indicator.
57.19010
Location of hoist controls.
57.19011
Drum flanges.
57.19012
Grooved drums.
57.19013
Diesel-and other fuel-injection-powered hoists.
57.19014
Friction hoist overtravel protection.
57.19017
Emergency braking for electric hoists.
57.19018
Overtravel by-pass switches.

# Wire Ropes
57.19019
Guide ropes.
57.19021
Minimum rope strength.
57.19022
Initial measurement.
57.19023
Examinations.
57.19024
Retirement criteria.
57.19025
Load end attachments.
57.19026
Drum end attachment.
57.19027
End attachment retermination.
57.19028
End attachment replacement.
57.19030
Safety device attachments.

# Headframes and Sheaves
57.19035
Headframe design.
57.19036
Headframe height.
57.19037
Fleet angles.
57.19038
Platforms around elevated head sheaves.

# Conveyances
57.19045
Metal bonnets.
57.19049
Hoisting persons in buckets.
57.19050
Bucket requirements.
57.19054
Rope guides.

# Hoisting Procedures
57.19055
Availability of hoist operator for manual hoists.
57.19056
Availability of hoist operator for automatic hoists.
57.19057
Hoist operator's physical fitness.
57.19058
Experienced hoist operators.
57.19061
Maximum hoisting speeds.
57.19062
Maximum acceleration and deceleration.
57.19063
Persons allowed in hoist room.
57.19065
Lowering conveyances by the brakes.
57.19066
Maximum riders in a conveyance.
57.19067
Trips during shift changes.
57.19068
Orderly conduct in conveyances.
57.19069
Entering and leaving conveyances.
57.19070
Closing cage doors or gates.
57.19071
Riding in skips or buckets.
57.19072
Skips and cages in same compartment.
57.19073
Hoisting during shift changes.
57.19074
Riding the bail, rim, bonnet, or crosshead.
57.19075
Use of open hooks.
57.19076
Maximum speeds for hoisting persons in buckets.
57.19077
Lowering buckets.
57.19078
Hoisting buckets from the shaft bottom.
57.19079
Blocking mine cars.
57.19080
Hoisting tools, timbers, and other materials.
57.19081
Conveyances not in use.
57.19083
Overtravel backout device.

# Signaling
57.19090
Dual signaling systems.
57.19091
Signaling instructions to hoist operator.
57.19092
Signaling from conveyances.
57.19093
Standard signal code.
57.19094
Posting signal code.
57.19095
Location of signal devices.
57.19096
Familiarity with signal code.

# Shafts
57.19100
Shaft landing gates.
57.19101
Stopblocks and derail switches.
57.19102
Shaft guides.
57.19103
Dumping facilities and loading pockets.
57.19104
Clearance at shaft stations.
57.19105
Landings with more than one shaft entrance.
57.19106
Shaft sets.
57.19107
Precautions for work in compartment affected by hoisting operation.
57.19108
Posting warning signs during shaft work.
57.19109
Shaft inspection and repair.
57.19110
Overhead protection for shaft deepening work.
57.19111
Shaft-sinking ladders.

# Inspection and Maintenance
57.19120
Procedures for inspection, testing, and maintenance.
57.19121
Recordkeeping.
57.19122
Replacement parts.
57.19129
Examinations and tests at beginning of shift.
57.19130
Conveyance shaft test.
57.19131
Hoist conveyance connections.
57.19132
Safety catches.
57.19133
Shaft.
57.19134
Sheaves.
57.19135
Rollers in inclined shafts.

# Subpart S—Miscellaneous
57.20001
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
57.20002
Potable water.
57.20003
Housekeeping.
57.20005
Carbon tetrachloride.
57.20008
Toilet facilities.
57.20009
Tests for explosive dusts.
57.20010
Retaining dams.
57.20011
Barricades and warning signs.
57.20013
Waste receptacles.
57.20014
Prohibited areas for food and beverages.
57.20020
Unattended mine openings.
57.20021
Abandoned mine openings.
57.20031
Blasting underground in hazardous areas.
57.20032
Two-way communication equipment for underground operations.

# Subpart T—Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines

# General
57.22001
Scope.
57.22002
Definitions.

# Mine Categorization
57.22003
Mine category or subcategory.
57.22004
Category placement or change in placement.
57.22005
Notice and appeal of placement or change in placement.

# Fire Prevention and Control
57.22101
Smoking (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22102
Smoking (I-C mines).
57.22103
Open flames (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22104
Open flames (I-C mines).
57.22105
Smoking and open flames (IV mines).
57.22106
Dust containing volatile matter (I-C mines).

# Ventilation
57.22201
Mechanical ventilation (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22202
Main fans (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22203
Main fan operation (I-C mines).
57.22204
Main fan operation and inspection (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22205
Doors on main fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22206
Main ventilation failure (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22207
Booster fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22208
Auxiliary fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22209
Auxiliary fans (I-C mines).
57.22210
In-line filters (I-C mines).
57.22211
Air flow (I-A mines).
57.22212
Air flow (I-C, II-A, and V-A mines).
57.22213
Air flow (III mines).
57.22214
Changes in ventilation (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22215
Separation of intake and return air (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22216
Separation of intake and return air (I-C mines).
57.22217
Seals and stoppings (I-A, I-B and I-C mines).
57.22218
Seals and stoppings (III, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22219
Seals and stoppings (II-A mines).
57.22220
Air passing unsealed areas (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22221
Overcast and undercast construction (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22222
Ventilation materials (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22223
Crosscuts before abandonment (III mines).
57.22224
Auxiliary equipment stations (I-A and III mines).
57.22225
Auxiliary equipment stations (I-C mines).
57.22226
Testing for methane (IV mines).
57.22227
Approved testing devices (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22228
Preshift examination (I-A, I-C, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22229
Weekly testing (I-A, III, and V-A mines).
57.22230
Weekly testing (II-A mines.
57.22231
Actions at 0.25 percent methane (I-B, II-B, V-B and VI mines).
57.22232
Actions at 0.5 percent methane (I-B, II-A, II-B, IV, V-B, and VI mines).
57.22233
Actions at 0.5 percent methane (I-C mines).
57.22234
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (I-A, I-B, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
57.22235
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (I-C, II-A, II-B, and IV mines).
57.22236
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (VI mines).
57.22237
Actions at 2.0 to 2.5 percent methane in bleeder systems (I-A and III mines).
57.22238
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (I-B, II-B, V-B, and VI mines).
57.22239
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (IV mines).
57.22240
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (V-A mines).
57.22241
Advance face boreholes (I-C mines).

# Equipment
57.22301
Atmospheric monitoring systems (I-A, II-A, and V-A mines).
57.22302
Approved equipment (I-A and V-A mines).
57.22303
Approved equipment (I-C mines).
57.22304
Approved equipment (II-A mines).
57.22305
Approved equipment (III mines).
57.22306
Methane monitors (I-A mines).
57.22307
Methane monitors (II-A mines).
57.22308
Methane monitors (III mines).
57.22309
Methane monitors (V-A mines).
57.22310
Electrical cables (I-C mines).
57.22311
Electrical cables (II-A mines).
57.22312
Distribution boxes (II-A and V-A mines).
57.22313
Explosion-protection systems (I-C mines).
57.22314
Flow-control devices (V-A and V-B mines).
57.22315
Self-contained breathing apparatus (V-A mines).

# Underground Retorts
57.22401
Underground retorts (I-A and I-B mines).

# Illumination
57.22501
Personal electric lamps (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).

# Explosives
57.22601
Blasting from the surface (I-A mines).
57.22602
Blasting from the surface (I-C mines).
57.22603
Blasting from the surface (II-A mines).
57.22604
Blasting from the surface (II-B mines).
57.22605
Blasting from the surface (V-A mines).
57.22606
Explosive materials and blasting units (III mines).
57.22607
Blasting on shift (III mines).
57.22608
Secondary blasting (I-A, II-A, and V-A mines).
Appendix I to Subpart T of Part 57—Standard Applicability By Category or Subcategory

# Subpart U—Safety Program for Surface Mobile Equipment
57.23000
Purpose and scope.
57.23001
Definitions.
57.23002
Written safety program.
57.23003
Requirements for written safety program.
57.23004
Record and inspection.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811.

# Source:
50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 57.1
Purpose and scope.
This part 57 sets forth mandatory safety and health standards for each underground metal or nonmetal mine, including related surface operations, subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. The purpose of these standards is the protection of life, the promotion of health and safety, and the prevention of accidents.
§ 57.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part. In addition definitions contained in any subpart of part 57 apply in that subpart. If inconsistent with the general definitions in this section, the definition in the subpart will apply in that subpart:
Abandoned areas
means areas in which work has been completed, no further work is planned, and travel is not permitted.
Abandoned mine
means all work has stopped on the mine premises and an office with a responsible person in charge is no longer maintained at the mine.
Abandoned workings
means deserted mine areas in which further work is not intended.
Active workings
means areas at, in, or around a mine or plant where men work or travel.
American Table of Distances
means the current edition of “The American Table of Distances for Storage of Explosives” published by the Institute of Makers of Explosives.
Approved
means tested and accepted for a specific purpose by a nationally recognized agency.
Attended
means presence of an individual or continuous monitoring to prevent unauthorized entry or access. In addition, areas containing explosive material at underground areas of a mine can be considered attended when all access to the underground areas of the mine is secured from unauthorized entry. Vertical shafts shall be considered secure. Inclined shafts or adits shall be considered secure when locked at the surface.
Authorized person
means a person approved or assigned by mine management to perform a specific type of duty or duties or to be at a specific location or locations in the mine.
Auxilary fan
means a fan used to deliver air to a working place off the main airstream; generally used with ventilation tubing.
Barricaded
means obstructed to prevent the passage of persons, vehicles, or flying materials.
Barrier
means a material object, or objects that separates, keeps apart, or demarcates in a conspicuous manner such as cones, a warning sign, or tape.
Berm
means a pile or mound of material along an elevated roadway capable of moderating or limiting the force of a vehicle in order to impede the vehicle's passage over the bank of the roadway.
Blast area
means the area in which concussion (shock wave), flying material, or gases from an explosion may cause injury to persons. In determining the blast area, the following factors, shall be considered:
(1) Geology or material to be blasted.
(2) Blast pattern.
(3) Burden, depth, diameter, and angle of the holes.
(4) Blasting experience of the mine.
(5) Delay system, powder factor, and pounds per delay.
(6) Type and amount of explosive material.
(7) Type and amount of stemming.
Blast site
means the area where explosive material is handled during loading, including the perimeter formed by the loaded blastholes and 50 feet (15.2 meters) in all directions from loaded holes. A minimum distance of 30 feet (9.1 meters) may replace the 50-foot (15.2-meter) requirement if the perimeter of loaded holes is demarcated with a barrier. The 50-foot (15.2-meter) and alternative 30-foot (9.1-meter) requirements also apply in all directions along the full depth of the hole. In underground mines, at least 15 feet (4.6 meters) of solid rib, pillar, or broken rock can be substituted for the 50-foot (15.2-meter) distance. In underground mines utilizing a block-caving system or similar system, at least 6 feet (1.8 meters) of solid rib or pillar, including concrete reinforcement of at least 10 inches (254 millimeters), with overall dimensions of not less than 6 feet (1.8 meters) may be substituted for the 50-foot (15.2-meter) distance requirement.
Blasting agent
means any substance classified as a blasting agent by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.114(a) (44 FR 31182, May 31, 1979) which is incorporated by reference. This document is available for inspection at each Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and may be obtained from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
Blasting area
means the area near blasting operations in which concussion or flying material can reasonably be expected to cause injury.
Blasting cap
means a detonator which is initiated by a safety fuse.
Blasting circuit
means the electrical circuit used to fire one or more electric blasting caps.
Blasting
switch means a switch used to connect a power source to a blasting circuit.
Blowout
means a sudden, violent, release of gas or liquid due to the reservoir pressure in a petroleum mine.
Booster
means any unit of explosive or blasting agent used for the purpose of perpetuating or intensifying an initial detonation.
Booster fan
means a fan installed in the main airstream or a split of the main airstream to increase airflow through a section or sections of a mine.
Capped fuse
means a length of safety fuse to which a blasting cap has been attached.
Capped primer
means a package or cartridge of explosives which is specifically designed to transmit detonation to other explosives and which contains a detonator.
Circuit breaker
means a device designed to open and close a circuit by nonautomatic means and to open the circuit automatically on a predetermined overcurrent setting without injury to itself when properly applied within its rating.
Combustible
means capable of being ignited and consumed by fire.
Combustible material
means a material that, in the form in which it is used and under the conditions anticipated, will ignite, burn, support combustion or release flammable vapors when subjected to fire or heat. Wood, paper, rubber, and plastics are examples of combustible materials.
Company official
means a member of the company supervisory or technical staff.
Competent person
means a person having abilities and experience that fully qualify him to perform the duty to which he is assigned.
Conductor
means a material, usually in the form of a wire, cable, or bus bar, capable of carrying an electric current.
Delay connector
means a nonelectric short interval delay device for use in delaying blasts which are initiated by detonating cord.
Detonating cord
means a flexible cord containing a solid core of high explosives.
Detonator
means any device containing a detonating charge that is used to initiate an explosive and includes but is not limited to blasting caps, electric blasting caps and non-electric instantaneous or delay blasting caps.
Distribution box
means a portable apparatus with an enclosure through which an electric circuit is carried to one or more cables from a single incoming feed line; each cable circuit being connected through individual overcurrent protective devices.
Electric blasting cap
means a detonator designed for and capable of being initiated by means of an electric current.
Electrical grounding
means to connect with the ground to make the earth part of the circuit.
Employee
means a person who works for wages or salary in the service of an employer.
Employer
means a person or organization which hires one or more persons to work for wages or salary.
Emulsion
means an explosive material containing substantial amounts of oxidizers dissolved in water droplets, surrounded by an immiscible fuel.
Escapeway
means a passageway by which persons may leave a mine.
Explosive
means any substance classified as an explosive by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.53, 173.88 and 173.100 which are incorporated by reference. Title 49 CFR is available for inspection at each Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and may be obtained from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
Face or bank
means that part of any mine where excavating is progressing or was last done.
Fire resistance rating
means the time, in minutes or hours, that an assembly of materials will retain its protective characteristics or structural integrity upon exposure to fire.
Flame spread rating
means the numerical designation that indicates the extent flame will spread over the surface of a material during a specified period of time.
Flammable
means capable of being easily ignited and of burning rapidly.
Flammable gas
means a gas that will burn in the normal concentrations of oxygen in the air.
Flammable liquid
a liquid that has a flash point below 100 °F (37.8 °C), a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100 °F (37.8 °C), and is known as a Class I liquid.
Flash point
means the minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid or solid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture at atmospheric pressure.
Geological area
means an area characterized by the presence of the same ore bodies, the same stratigraphic sequence of beds, or the same ore-bearing geological formation.
Highway
means any public street, public alley or public road.
High potential
means more than 650 volts.
Hoist
means a power driven windlass or drum used for raising ore, rock, or other material from a mine, and for lowering or raising persons and material.
Igniter cord
means a fuse, cordlike in appearance, which burns progressively along its length with an external flame at the zone of burning, and is used for lighting a series of safety fuses in the desired sequence.
Insulated
means separated from other conducting surfaces by a dielectric substance permanently offering a high resistance to the passage of current and to disruptive discharge through the substance. When any substance is said to be insulated, it is understood to be insulated in a manner suitable for the conditions to which it is subjected. Otherwise, it is, within the purpose of this definition, uninsulated. Insulating covering is one means for making the conductor insulated.
Insulation
means a dielectric substance offering a high resistance to the passage of current and to a disruptive discharge through the substance.
Laminated partition
means a partition composed of the following material and minimum nominal dimensions:
1/2
-inch-thick plywood,
1/2
-inch-thick gypsum wallboard,
1/8
-inch-thick low carbon steel, and
1/4
-inch-thick plywood, bonded together in that order (IME-22 Box). A laminated partition also includes alternative construction materials described in the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Lay
means the distance parallel to the axis of the rope in which a strand makes one complete turn about the axis of the rope.
Loading
means placing explosive material either in a blasthole or against the material to be blasted.
Low potential
means 650 volts or less.
Magazine
means a facility for the storage of explosives, blasting agents, or detonators.
Main fan
means a fan that controls the entire airflow of the mine, or the airflow of one of the major air circuits.
Major electrical installation
means an assemblage of stationary electrical equipment for the generation, transmission, distribution, or conversion of electrical power.
Mantrip
means a trip on which persons are transported to and from a work area.
Mill
includes any ore mill, sampling works, concentrator, and any crushing, grinding, or screening plant used at, and in connection with, an excavation or mine.
Mine atmosphere
means any point at least 12 inches away from the back, face, rib, and floor in any mine; and additionally, in a Category IV mine, at least 3 feet laterally away from the collar of a borehole which releases gas into a mine.
Mine opening
means any opening or entrance from the surface into a mine.
Misfire
means the complete or partial failure of a blasting charge to explode as planned.
Mobile equipment
means wheeled, skid-mounted, track-mounted, or rail-mounted equipment capable of moving or being moved.
Multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguisher
means an extinguisher having a rating of at least 2-A:10-B:C and containing a nominal 4.5 pounds or more of dry-chemical agent.
Noncombustible material
means a material that, in the form in which it is used and under the conditions anticipated, will not ignite, burn, support combustion, or release flammable vapors when subjected to fire or heat. Concrete, masonry block, brick, and steel are examples of noncombustible materials.
Non-electric delay blasting cap
means a detonator with an integral delay element and capable of being initiated by miniaturized detonating cord.
Outburst
means the sudden, violent release of solids and high-pressure occluded gases, including methane in a domal salt mine.
Overburden
means material of any nature, consolidated or unconsolidated, that overlies a deposit of useful materials or ores that are to be mined.
Overload
means that current which will cause an excessive or dangerous temperature in the conductor or conductor insulation.
Permissible
means a machine, material, apparatus, or device which has been investigated, tested, and approved by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and is maintained in permissible condition.
Potable water
means water which shall meet the applicable minimum health requirements for drinking water established by the State or community in which the mine is located or by the Environmental Protection Agency in 40 CFR part 141, pages 169-182 revised as of July 1, 1977. Where no such requirements are applicable, the drinking water provided shall conform with the Public Health Service Drinking Water Standards, 42 CFR part 72, subpart J, pages 527-533, revised as of October 1, 1976. Publications to which references are made in this definition are hereby made a part hereof. These incorporated publications are available for inspection at each Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
Powder chest
means a substantial, nonconductive portable container equipped with a lid and used at blasting sites for explosives other than blasting agents.
Primer
means a unit, package, or cartridge of explosives used to initiate other explosives or blasting agents, and which contains a detonator.
Reverse-current protection
means a method or device used on direct-current circuits or equipment to prevent the flow of current in a reverse direction.
Rock burst
means a sudden and violent failure of overstressed rock resulting in the instantaneous release of large amounts of accumulated energy. Rock burst does not include a burst resulting from pressurized mine gases.
Rock fixture
means any tensioned or nontensioned device or material inserted into the ground to strengthen or support the ground.
Roll protection
means a framework, safety canopy or similar protection for the operator when equipment overturns.
Safety can
means an approved container, of not over 5 gallons capacity, having a spring-closing lid and spout cover.
Safety fuse
means a flexible cord containing an internal burning medium by which fire is conveyed at a continuous and uniform rate for the purpose of firing blasting caps or a black powder charge.
Safety switch
means a sectionalizing switch that also provides shunt protection in blasting circuits between the blasting switch and the shot area.
Scaling
means removal of insecure material from a face or highwall.
Secondary safety connection
means a second connection between a conveyance and rope, intended to prevent the conveyance from running away or falling in the event the primary connection fails.
Shaft
means a vertical or inclined shaft, a slope, incline, or winze.
Short circuit
means an abnormal connection of relatively low resistance, whether made accidentally or intentionally, between two points of difference potential in a circuit.
Slurry
(as applied to blasting). See “Water gel.”
Storage facility
means the entire class of structures used to store explosive materials. A “storage facility” used to store blasting agents corresponds to a BATF Type 4 or 5 storage facility.
Storage tank
means a container exceeding 60 gallons in capacity used for the storage of flammable or combustible liquids.
Stray current
means that portion of a total electric current that flows through paths other than the intended circuit.
Substantial construction
means construction of such strength, material, and workmanship that the object will withstand all reasonable shock, wear, and usage to which it will be subjected.
Suitable
means that which fits, and has the qualities or qualifications to meet a given purpose, occasion, condition, function, or circumstance.
Travelway
means a passage, walk or way regularly used and designated for persons to go from one place to another.
Water gel or Slurry
(as applied to blasting) means an explosive or blasting agent containing substantial portions of water.
Wet drilling
means the continuous application of water through the central hole of hollow drill steel to the bottom of the drill hole.
Working level
(WL) means any combination of the short-lived radon daughters in one liter of air that will result in ultimate emission of 1.3 × 10
5
MeV (million electron volts) of potential alpha energy, and exposure to these radon daughters over a period of time is expressed in terms of “working level months” (WLM). Inhalation of air containing a radon daughter concentration of 1 WL for 173 hours results in an exposure of 1 WLM.”
Working place
means any place in or about a mine where work is being performed.
[69 FR 38840, June 29, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 52987, Sept. 2, 2015]

# Procedures
§ 57.1000
Notification of commencement of operations and closing of mines.
The owner, operator, or person in charge of any metal and nonmetal mine shall notify the nearest MSHA Metal and Nonmental Mine Safety and Health district office before starting operations, of the approximate or actual date mine operation will commence. The notification shall include the mine name, location, the company name, mailing address, person in charge, and whether operations will be continuous or intermittent. When any mine is closed, the person in charge shall notify the nearest district office as provided above and indicate whether the closure is temporary or permanent.
[51 FR 36198, Oct. 8, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Subpart B—Ground Control

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811.

# Source:
51 FR 36198, Oct. 8, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 57.3000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Travelway.
A passage, walk, or haulageway regularly used or designated for persons to go from one place to another.
[51 FR 36198, Oct. 8, 1986, as amended at 69 FR 38842, June 29, 2004]

# Scaling and Support—Surface and Underground
§ 57.3200
Correction of hazardous conditions.
Ground conditions that create a hazard to persons shall be taken down or supported before other work or travel is permitted in the affected area. Until corrective work is completed, the area shall be posted with a warning against entry and, when left unattended, a barrier shall be installed to impede unauthorized entry.
§ 57.3201
Location for performing scaling.
Scaling shall be performed from a location which will not expose persons to injury from falling material, or other protection from falling material shall be provided.
§ 57.3202
Scaling tools.
Where manual scaling is performed, a scaling bar shall be provided. This bar shall be of a length and design that will allow the removal of loose material without exposing the person performing the work to injury.
§ 57.3203
Rock fixtures.
(a) For rock bolts and accessories addressed in ASTM F432-95, “Standard Specification for Roof and Rock Bolts and Accessories,” the mine operator shall—
(1) Obtain a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufactured and tested in accordance with the specifications of ASTM F432-95; and
(2) Make this certification available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to the representative of miners.
(b) Fixtures and accessories not addressed in ASTM F432-95 may be used for ground support provided they—
(1) Have been successful in supporting the ground in an area with similar strata, opening dimensions and ground stresses in any mine; or
(2) Have been tested and shown to be effective in supporting ground in an area of the affected mine which has similar strata, opening dimensions, and ground stresses as the area where the fixtures are expected to be used. During the test process, access to the test area shall be limited to persons necessary to conduct the test.
(c) Bearing plates shall be used with fixtures when necessary for effective ground support.
(d) The diameter of finishing bits shall be within a tolerance of plus or minus 0.030 inch of the manufacturer's recommended hole diameter for the anchor used. When separate finishing bits are used, they shall be distinguishable from other bits.
(e) Damaged or deteriorated cartridges of grouting material shall not be used.
(f) When rock bolts tensioned by torquing are used as a means of ground support,
(1) Selected tension level shall be—
(i) At least 50 percent of either the yield point of the bolt or anchorage capacity of the rock, whichever is less; and
(ii) No greater than the yield point of the bolt or anchorage capacity of the rock.
(2) The torque of the first bolt, every tenth bolt, and the last bolt installed in each work area during the shift shall be accurately determined immediately after installation. If the torque of any fixture tested does not fall within the installation torque range, corrective action shall be taken.
(g) When grouted fixtures can be tested by applying torque, the first fixture installed in each work place shall be tested to withstand 150 foot-pounds of torque. Should it rotate in the hole, a second fixture shall be tested in the same manner. If the second fixture also turns, corrective action shall be taken.
(h) When other tensioned and nontensioned fixtures are used, test methods shall be established and used to verify their effectiveness.
(i) The mine operator shall certify that tests were conducted and make
the certification available to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
[51 FR 36198, Oct. 8, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 36804, Oct. 16, 1986; 63 FR 20030, Apr. 22, 1998]

# Scaling and Support—Underground Only
§ 57.3360
Ground support use.
Ground support shall be used where ground conditions, or mining experience in similar ground conditions in the mine, indicate that it is necessary. When ground support is necessary, the support system shall be designed, installed, and maintained to control the ground in places where persons work or travel in performing their assigned tasks. Damaged, loosened, or dislodged timber use for ground support which creates a hazard to persons shall be repaired or replaced prior to any work or travel in the affected area.

# Precautions—Surface and Underground
§ 57.3400
Secondary breakage.
Prior to secondary breakage operations, the material to be broken, other than hanging material, shall be positioned or blocked to prevent movement which would endanger persons in the work area. Secondary breakage shall be performed from a location which would not expose persons to danger.
§ 57.3401
Examination of ground conditions.
Persons experienced in examining and testing for loose ground shall be designated by the mine operator. Appropriate supervisors or other designated persons shall examine and, where applicable, test ground conditions in areas where work is to be performed, prior to work commencing, after blasting, and as ground conditions warrant during the work shift. Underground haulageways and travelways and surface area highwalls and banks adjoining travelways shall be examined weekly or more often if changing ground conditions warrant.

# Precautions—Surface Only
§ 57.3430
Activity between machinery or equipment and the highwall or bank.
Persons shall not work or travel between machinery or equipment and the highwall or bank where the machinery or equipment may hinder escape from falls or slides of the highwall or bank. Travel is permitted when necessary for persons to dismount.

# Precautions—Underground Only
§ 57.3460
Maintenance between machinery or equipment and ribs.
Persons shall not perform maintenance work between machinery or equipment and ribs unless the area has been tested and, when necessary, secured.
§ 57.3461
Rock bursts.
(a) Operators of mines which have experienced a rock burst shall—
(1) Within twenty four hours report to the nearest MSHA office each rock burst which:
(i) Causes persons to be withdrawn;
(ii) Impairs ventilation;
(iii) Impedes passage; or
(iv) Disrupts mining activity for more than one hour.
(2) Develop and implement a rock burst control plan within 90 days after a rock burst has been experienced.
(b) The plan shall include—
(1) Mining and operating procedures designed to reduce the occurrence of rock bursts;
(2) Monitoring procedures where detection methods are used; and
(3) Other measures to minimize exposure of persons to areas which are prone to rock bursts.
(c) The plan shall be updated as conditions warrant.
(d) The plan shall be available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to miners or their representatives.

# Subpart C—Fire Prevention and Control

# Authority:
Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as
amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811).
§ 57.4000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Combustible liquids.
Liquids having a flash point at or above 100 °F (37.8 °C). They are divided into the following classes:
Class II liquids—those having flash points at or above 100 °F (37.8 °C) and below 140 °F (60 °C).
Class IIIA liquids—those having flash points at or above 140 °F (60 °C) and below 200 °F (93.4 °C).
Class IIIB liquids—those having flash points at or above 200 °F (93.4 °C).
Escapeway.
A designated passageway by which persons can leave an underground mine.
Flash point.
The minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture near the surface of the liquid.
Main fan.
A fan that controls the entire airflow of an underground mine or the airflow of one of the major air circuits of the mine.
Mine opening.
Any opening or entrance from the surface into an underground mine.
Safety can.
A container of not over five gallons capacity that is designed to safely relieve internal pressure when exposed to heat and has a spring-closing lid and spout cover.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 68 FR 32361, May 30, 2003; 69 FR 38842, June 29, 2004]
§ 57.4011
Abandoned electric circuits.
Abandoned electric circuits shall be deenergized and isolated so that they cannot become energized inadvertently.
§ 57.4057
Underground trailing cables.
Underground trailing cables shall be accepted or approved by MSHA as flame resistant.
[57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992]

# Prohibitions/Precautions/Housekeeping
§ 57.4100
Smoking and use of open flames.
No person shall smoke or use an open flame where flammable or combustible liquids, including greases, or flammable gases are—
(a) Used or transported in a manner that could create a fire hazard; or
(b) Stored or handled.
§ 57.4101
Warning signs.
Readily visible signs prohibiting smoking and open flames shall be posted where a fire or explosion hazard exists.
§ 57.4102
Spillage and leakage.
Flammable or combustible liquid spillage or leakage shall be removed in a timely manner or controlled to prevent a fire hazard.
§ 57.4103
Fueling internal combustion engines.
Internal combustion engines shall be switched off before refueling if the fuel tanks are integral parts of the equipment. This standard does not apply to diesel-powered equipment.
§ 57.4104
Combustible waste.
(a) Waste materials, including liquids, shall not accumulate in quantities that could create a fire hazard.
(b) Waste or rags containing flammable or combustible liquids that could create a fire hazard shall be placed in the following containers until disposed of properly:
(1) Underground—covered metal containers.
(2) On the surface—covered metal containers or equivalent containers with flame containment characteristics.
§ 57.4130
Surface electric substations and liquid storage facilities.
The requirements of this standard apply to surface areas only.
(a) If a hazard to persons could be created, no combustible materials shall be stored or allowed to accumulate within 25 feet of the following:
(1) Electric substations.
(2) Unburied, flammable or combustible liquid storage tanks.
(3) Any group of containers used for storage of more than 60 gallons of flammable or combustible liquids.
(b) The area within the 25-foot perimeter shall be kept free of dry vegetation.
§ 57.4131
Surface fan installations and mine openings.
(a) On the surface, no more than one day's supply of combustible materials shall be stored within 100 feet of mine openings or within 100 feet of fan installations used for underground ventilation.
(b) the one-day supply shall be kept at least 25 feet away from any mine opening except during transit into the mine.
(c) Dry vegetation shall not be permitted within 25 feet of mine openings.
§ 57.4160
Underground electric substations and liquid storage facilities.
The requirements of this standard apply to underground areas only.
(a) Areas within 25 feet of the following shall be free of combustible materials:
(1) Electric substations.
(2) Unburied, combustible liquid storage tanks.
(3) Any group of containers used for storage of more than 60 gallons of combustible liquids.
(b) This standard does not apply to installed wiring or timber that is coated with at least one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other noncombustible materials with equivalent fire protection characteristics.
§ 57.4161
Use of fire underground.
Fires shall not be lit underground, except for open-flame torches. Torches shall be attended at all times while lit.

# Firefighting Equipment
§ 57.4200
General requirements.
(a) For fighting fires that could endanger persons, each mine shall have—
(1) Onsite firefighting equipment for fighting fires in their early stages; and
(2) Onsite firefighting equipment for fighting fires beyond their early stages, or the mine shall have made prior arrangements with a local fire department to fight such fires.
(b) This onsite firefighting equipment shall be—
(1) Of the type, size, and quantity that can extinguish fires of any class which would occur as a result of the hazards present; and
(2) Strategically located, readily accessible, plainly marked, and maintained in fire-ready condition.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 20100, May 14, 1985]
§ 57.4201
Inspection.
(a) Firefighting equipment shall be inspected according to the following schedules:
(1) Fire extinguishers shall be inspected visually at least once a month to determine that they are fully charged and operable.
(2) At least once every twelve months, maintenance checks shall be made of mechanical parts, the amount and condition of extinguishing agent and expellant, and the condition of the hose, nozzle, and vessel to determine that the fire extinguishers will operate effectively.
(3) Fire extinguishers shall be hydrostatically tested according to Table C-1 or a schedule based on the manufacturer's specifications to determine the integrity of extinguishing agent vessels.
(4) Water pipes, valves, outlets, hydrants, and hoses that are part of the mine's firefighting system shall be visually inspected at least once every three months for damage or deterioration and use-tested at least once every twelve months to determine that they remain functional.
(5) Fire suppression systems shall be inspected at least once every twelve months. An inspection schedule based on the manufacturer's specifications or the equivalent shall be established for individual components of a system and followed to determine that the system remains functional. Surface fire suppression systems are exempt from these inspection requirements if the systems are used solely for the protection of property and no persons would be affected by a fire.
(b) At the completion of each inspection or test required by this standard, the person making the inspection or test shall certify that the inspection or test has been made and the date on which it was made. Certifications of hydrostatic testing shall be retained until the fire extinguisher is retested or permanently removed from service. Other certifications shall be retained for one year.
Table C-1—Hydrostatic Test Intervals for Fire Extinguishers
Extinguisher type
Test interval (years)
Soda Acid
5
Cartridge-Operated Water and/or Antifreeze
5
Stored-Pressure Water and/or Antifreeze
5
Wetting Agent
5
Foam
5
AFFF (Aqueous Film Forming Foam)
5
Loaded Stream
5
Dry-Chemical with Stainless Steel Shells
5
Carbon Dioxide
5
Dry-Chemical, Stored Pressure, with Mild Steel Shells, Brazed Brass Shells, or Aluminum Shells
12
Dry-Chemical, Cartridge or Cylinder Operated, with Mild Steel Shells
12
Bromotrifluoromethane-Halon 1301
12
Bromochlorodifluoromethane-Halon 1211
12
Dry-Powder, Cartridge or Cylinder-Operated, with Mild Steel Shells
1
12
1
Except for stainless steel and steel used for compressed gas cylinders, all other steel shells are defined as “mild steel” shells.
§ 57.4202
Fire hydrants.
If fire hydrants are part of the mine's firefighting system, the hydrants shall be provided with—
(a) Uniform fittings or readily available adapters for onsite firefighting equipment;
(b) Readily available wrenches or keys to open the valves; and
(c) Readily available adapters capable of connecting hydrant fittings to the hose equipment of any firefighting organization relied upon by the mine.
§ 57.4203
Extinguisher recharging or replacement.
Fire extinguishers shall be recharged or replaced with a fully charged extinguisher promptly after any discharge.
§ 57.4230
Surface self-propelled equipment.
(a)(1) Whenever a fire or its effects could impede escape from self-propelled equipment, a fire extinguisher shall be on the equipment.
(2) Whenever a fire or its effects would not impede escape from the equipment but could affect the escape of other persons in the area, a fire extinguisher shall be on the equipment or within 100 feet of the equipment.
(b) A fire suppression system may be used as an alternative to fire extinguishers if the system can be manually activated.
(c) Fire extinguishers or fire suppression systems shall be of a type and size that can extinguish fires of any class in their early stages which could originate from the equipment's inherent fire hazards. Fire extinguishers or manual actuators for the suppression system shall be located to permit their use by persons whose escape could be impeded by fire.
§ 57.4260
Underground self-propelled equipment.
(a) Whenever self-propelled equipment is used underground, a fire extinguisher shall be on the equipment. This standard does not apply to compressed-air powered equipment without inherent fire hazards.
(b) A fire suppression system may be used as an alternative to fire extinguishers if the system can be manually actuated.
(c) Fire extinguishers or fire suppression systems shall be of a type and size that can extinguish fires of any class in their early stages which could originate from the equipment's inherent fire hazards. The fire extinguishers or the manual actuator for the suppression system shall be readily accessible to the equipment operator.
§ 57.4261
Shaft-station waterlines.
Waterline outlets that are located at underground shaft stations and are part of the mine's fire protection system shall have at least one fitting located for, and capable of, immediate connection to firefighting equipment.
§ 57.4262
Underground transformer stations, combustible liquid storage and dispensing areas, pump rooms, compressor rooms, and hoist rooms.
Transformer stations, storage and dispensing areas for combustible liquids, pump rooms, compressor rooms, and hoist rooms shall be provided with fire protection of a type, size, and quantity that can extinguish fires of any class in their early stages which could occur as a result of the hazards present.
§ 57.4263
Underground belt conveyors.
Fire protection shall be provided at the head, tail, drive, and take-up pulleys of underground belt conveyors. Provisions shall be made for extinguishing fires along the beltline. Fire protection shall be of a type, size, and quantity that can extinguish fires of any class in their early stages which could occur as a result of the fire hazards present.

# Firefighting Procedures/Alarms/Drills
§ 57.4330
Surface firefighting, evacuation, and rescue procedures.
(a) Mine operators shall establish emergency firefighting, evacuation, and rescue procedures for the surface portions of their operations. These procedures shall be coordinated in advance with available firefighting organizations.
(b) Fire alarm procedures or systems shall be established to promptly warn every person who could be endangered by a fire.
(c) Fire alarm systems shall be maintained in operable condition.
§ 57.4331
Surface firefighting drills.
Emergency firefighting drills shall be held at least once every six months for persons assigned surface firefighting responsibilities by the mine operator.
§ 57.4360
Underground alarm systems.
(a) Fire alarm systems capable of promptly warning every person underground, except as provided in paragraph (b), shall be provided and maintained in operating condition.
(b) If persons are assigned to work areas beyond the warning capabilities of the system, provisions shall be made to alert them in a manner to provide for their safe evacuation in the event of a fire.
§ 57.4361
Underground evacuation drills.
(a) At least once every six months, mine evacuation drills shall be held to assess the ability of all persons underground to reach the surface or other designated points of safety within the time limits of the self-rescue devices that would be used during an actual emergency.
(b) The evacuation drills shall—
(1) Be held for each shift at some time other than a shift change and involve all persons underground;
(2) Involve activation of the fire alarm system; and
(3) Include evacuation of all persons from their work areas to the surface or to designated central evacuation points.
(c) At the completion of each drill, the mine operator shall certify the date and the time the evacuation began and ended. Certifications shall be retained for at least one year after each drill.
§ 57.4362
Underground rescue and firefighting operations.
Following evacuation of a mine in a fire emergency, only persons wearing and trained in the use of mine rescue apparatus shall participate in rescue and firefighting operations in advance of the fresh air base.
§ 57.4363
Underground evacuation instruction.
(a) At least once every twelve months, all persons who work underground shall be instructed in the escape and evacuation plans and procedures and fire warning signals in effect at the mine.
(b) Whenever a change is made in escape and evacuation plans and procedures for any area of the mine, all persons affected shall be instructed in the new plans or procedures.
(c) Whenever persons are assigned to work in areas other than their regularly assigned areas, they shall be instructed about the escapeway for that area at the time of such assignment.
However, persons who normally work in more than one area of the mine shall be instructed at least once every twelve months about the location of escapeways for all areas of the mine in which they normally work or travel.
(d) At the completion of any instruction given under this standard, the mine operator shall certify the date that the instruction was given. Certifications shall be retained for at least one year.

# Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases
§ 57.4400
Use restrictions.
(a) Flammable liquids shall not be used for cleaning.
(b) Solvents shall not be used near an open flame or other ignition source, near any source of heat, or in an atmosphere that can elevate the temperature of the solvent above the flash point.
§ 57.4401
Storage tank foundations.
Fixed, unburied, flammable or combustible liquid storage tanks shall be securely mounted on firm foundations. Piping shall be provided with flexible connections or other special fittings where necessary to prevent leaks caused by tanks settling.
§ 57.4402
Safety can use.
Small quantities of flammable liquids drawn from storage shall be kept in safety cans labeled to indicate the contents.
§ 57.4430
Surface storage facilities.
The requirements of this standard apply to surface areas only.
(a) Storage tanks for flammable or combustible liquids shall be—
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses and compatible with the type of liquid stored;
(2) Maintained in a manner that prevents leakage;
(3) Isolated or separated from ignition sources to prevent fire or explosion; and
(4) Vented or otherwise constructed to prevent development of pressure or vacuum as a result of filling, emptying, or atmospheric temperature changes. Vents for storage of Class I, II, or IIIA liquids shall be isolated or separated from ignition sources. These pressure relief requirements do not apply to tanks used for storage of Class IIIB liquids that are larger than 12,000 gallons in capacity.
(b) All piping, valves, and fittings shall be—
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses;
(2) Compatible with the type of liquid stored; and
(3) Maintained in a manner that prevents leakage.
(c) Fixed, unburied tanks located where escaping liquid could present a hazard to persons shall be provided with—
(1) Containment for the entire capacity of the largest tank; or
(2) Drainage to a remote impoundment area that does not endanger persons. However, storage of only Class IIIB liquids does not require containment or drainage to remote impoundment.
§ 57.4431
Surface storage restrictions.
(a) On the surface, no unburied flammable or combustible liquids or flammable gases shall be stored within 100 feet of the following:
(1) Mine openings or structures attached to mine openings.
(2) Fan installations for underground ventilation.
(3) Hoist houses.
(b) Under this standard, the following may be present in the hoist house in quantities necessary for the day-to-day maintenance of the hoist machinery:
(1) Flammable liquids in safety cans or in other containers placed in tightly closed cabinets. The safety cans and cabinets shall be kept away from any heat source, and each cabinet shall be labeled “flammables.”
(2) Combustible liquids in closed containers. The containers shall be kept away from any heat source and the hoist operator's work station.
§ 57.4460
Storage of flammable liquids underground.
(a) Flammable liquids shall not be stored underground, except—
(1) Small quantities stored in tightly closed cabinets away from any heat source. The small quantities shall be
stored in safety cans or in non-glass containers of a capacity equal to or less than a safety can. Each cabinet shall be labeled “flammables.”
(2) Acetylene and liquefied petroleum gases stored in containers designed for that specific purpose.
(b) Gasoline shall not be stored underground in any quantity.
§ 57.4461
Gasoline use restrictions underground.
If gasoline is used underground to power internal combustion engines—
(a) The mine shall be nongassy and shall have multiple horizontal or inclined roadways from the surface large enough to accommodate vehicular traffic;
(b) All roadways and other openings shall connect with another opening every 100 feet by a passage large enough to accommodate any vehicle in the mine or alternate routes shall provide equivalent escape capabilities; and
(c) No roadway or other opening shall be supported or lined with wood or other combustible materials.
§ 57.4462
Storage of combustible liquids underground.
The requirements of this standard apply to underground areas only.
(a) Combustible liquids, including oil or grease, shall be stored in non-glass containers or storage tanks. The containers or storage tanks shall be—
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses and compatible with the type of liquid stored;
(2) Maintained in a manner that prevents leakage;
(3) Located in areas free of combustible materials or in areas where any exposed combustible materials are coated with one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other noncombustible material with equivalent fire protection characteristics; and
(4) Separated from explosives or blasting agents, shaft stations, and ignition sources including electric equipment that could create sufficient heat or sparks to pose a fire hazard. Separation shall be sufficient to prevent the occurrence or minimize the spread of fire.
(b) Storage tanks shall be vented or otherwise constructed to prevent development of pressure or vacuum as a result of filling, emptying, or atmospheric temperature changes. Vents for storage of Class II or IIIA liquids shall be isolated or separated from ignition sources.
(c) At permanent storage areas for combustible liquids, means shall be provided for confinement or removal of the contents of the largest storage tank in the event of tank rupture.
(d) All piping, valves, and fittings shall be:
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses;
(2) Compatible with the type of liquid stored; and
(3) Maintained in a manner which prevents leakage.
§ 57.4463
Liquefied petroleum gas use underground.
Use of liquefied petroleum gases underground shall be limited to maintenance work.

# Installation/Construction/Maintenance
§ 57.4500
Heat sources.
Heat sources capable of producing combustion shall be separated from combustible materials if a fire hazard could be created.
§ 57.4501
Fuel lines.
Fuel lines shall be equipped with valves capable of stopping the flow of fuel at the source and shall be located and maintained to minimize fire hazards. This standard does not apply to fuel lines on self-propelled equipment.
§ 57.4502
Battery-charging stations.
(a) Battery-charging stations shall be ventilated with a sufficient volume of air to prevent the accumulation of hydrogen gas.
(b) Smoking, use of open flames, or other activities that could create an ignition source shall be prohibited at the battery charging station during battery charging.
(c) Readily visible signs prohibiting smoking or open flames shall be posted at battery-charging stations during battery charging.
§ 57.4503
Conveyor belt slippage.
(a) Surface belt conveyors within confined areas where evacuation would be restricted in the event of a fire resulting from belt-slippage shall be equipped with a detection system capable of automatically stopping the drive pulley.
(b) Underground belt conveyors shall be equipped with a detection system capable of automatically stopping the drive pulley if slippage could cause ignition of the belt.
(c) A person shall attend the belt at the drive pulley when it is necessary to operate the conveyor while temporarily bypassing the automatic function.
§ 57.4504
Fan installations.
(a) Fan houses, fan bulkheads for main and booster fans, and air ducts connecting main fans to underground openings shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
(b) Areas within 25 feet of main fans or booster fans shall be free of combustible materials, except installed wiring, ground and track support, headframes, and direct-fired heaters. Other timber shall be coated with one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other noncombustible materials.
§ 57.4505
Fuel lines to underground areas.
Fuel lines into underground storage or dispensing areas shall be drained at the completion of each transfer of fuel unless the following requirements are met:
(a) The valve at the supply source shall be kept closed when fuel is not being transferred.
(b) The fuel line shall be—
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses;
(2) Located to prevent damage; and
(3) Located in areas free of combustible materials or in areas where any exposed combustible materials are coated with one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other noncombustible material with equivalent fire protection characteristics.
(c) Provisions shall be made for control or containment of the entire volume of the fuel line so that leakage will not create a fire hazard.
§ 57.4530
Exits for surface buildings and structures.
Surface buildings or structures in which persons work shall have a sufficient number of exits to permit prompt escape in case of fire.
§ 57.4531
Surface flammable or combustible liquid storage buildings or rooms.
(a) Surface storage buildings or storage rooms in which flammable or combustible liquids, including grease, are stored and that are within 100 feet of any person's work station shall be ventilated with a sufficient volume of air to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors.
(b) In addition, the buildings or rooms shall be—
(1) Constructed to meet a fire resistance rating of at least one hour; or
(2) Equipped with an automatic fire suppression system; or
(3) Equipped with an early warning fire detection device that will alert any person who could be endangered by a fire, provided that no person's work station is in the building.
(c) Flammable or combustible liquids in use for day-to-day maintenance and operational activities are not considered in storage under this standard.
§ 57.4532
Blacksmith shops.
Blacksmith shops located on the surface shall be—
(a) At least 100 feet from fan installations used for intake air and mine openings;
(b) Equipped with exhaust vents over the forge and ventilated to prevent the accumulation of the products of combustion; and
(c) Inspected for smoldering fires at the end of each shift.
§ 57.4533
Mine opening vicinity.
Surface buildings or other similar structures within 100 feet of mine openings used for intake air or within 100 feet of mine openings that are designated escapeways in exhaust air shall be—
(a) Constructed of noncombustible materials; or
(b) Constructed to meet a fire resistance rating of no less than one hour; or
(c) Provided with an automatic fire suppression system; or
(d) Covered on all combustible interior and exterior structural surfaces with noncombustible material or limited combustible material, such as five-eighth inch, type “X” gypsum wallboard.
§ 57.4560
Mine entrances.
For at least 200 feet inside the mine portal or collar timber used for ground support in intake openings and in exhaust openings that are designated as escapeways shall be—
(a) Provided with a fire suppression system, other than fire extinguishers and water hoses, capable of controlling a fire in its early stages; or
(b) Covered with shotcrete, gunite, or other material with equivalent fire protection characteristics; or
(c) Coated with fire-retardant paint or other material to reduce its flame spread rating to 25 or less and maintained in that condition.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 20100, May 14, 1985]
§ 57.4561
Stationary diesel equipment underground.
Stationary diesel equipment underground shall be—
(a) Supported on a noncombustible base; and
(b) Provided with a thermal sensor that automatically stops the engine if overheating occurs.

# Welding/Cutting/Compressed Gases
§ 57.4600
Extinguishing equipment.
(a) When welding, cutting, soldering, thawing, or bending—
(1) With an electric arc or with an open flame where an electrically conductive extinguishing agent could create an electrical hazard, a multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguisher or other extinguisher with at least a 2-A:10-B:C rating shall be at the worksite.
(2) With an open flame in an area where no electrical hazard exists, a multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguisher or equivalent fire extinguishing equipment for the class of fire hazard present shall be at the worksite.
(b) Use of halogenated fire extinguishing agents to meet the requirements of this standard shall be limited to Halon 1211 (CBrClF
2
) and Halon 1301 (CBrF
3
). When these agents are used in confined or unventilated areas, precautions based on the manufacturer's use instructions shall be taken so that the gases produced by thermal decomposition of the agents are not inhaled.
§ 57.4601
Oxygen cylinder storage.
Oxygen cylinders shall not be stored in rooms or areas used or designated for storage of flammable or combustible liquids, including grease.
§ 57.4602
Gauges and regulators.
Gauges and regulators used with oxygen or acetylene cylinders shall be kept clean and free of oil and grease.
§ 57.4603
Closure of valves.
To prevent accidental release of gases from hoses and torches attached to oxygen and acetylene cylinders or to manifold systems, cylinder or manifold system valves shall be closed when—
(a) The cylinders are moved;
(b) The torch and hoses are left unattended; or
(c) The task or series of tasks is completed.
§ 57.4604
Preparation of pipelines or containers.
Before welding, cutting, or applying heat with an open flame to pipelines or containers that have contained flammable or combustible liquids, flammable gases, or explosive solids, the pipelines or containers shall be—
(a) Drained, ventilated, and thoroughly cleaned of any residue;
(b) Vented to prevent pressure build-up during the application of heat; and
(c)(1) Filled with an inert gas or water, where compatible; or
(2) Determined to be free of flammable gases by a flammable gas detection device prior to and at frequent intervals during the application of heat.
§ 57.4660
Work in shafts, raises, or winzes and other activities involving hazard areas.
During performance of an activity underground described in Table C-2 or when falling sparks or hot metal from
work performed in a shaft, raise, or winze could pose a fire hazard—
(a) A multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguisher shall be at the worksite to supplement the fire extinguishing equipment required by § 57.4600; and
(b) At least one of the following actions shall be taken:
(1) Wet down the area before and after the operation, taking precaution against any hazard of electrical shock.
(2) Isolate any combustible material with noncombustible material.
(3) Shield the activity so that hot metal and sparks cannot cause a fire.
(4) Provide a second person to watch for and extinguish any fire.
Table C-2
Activity
Distance
Fire hazard
Welding or cutting with an electric arc or open flame
More than 1 gallon of combustible liquid, unless in a closed, metal container.
Using an open flame to bend or heat materials
Within 35 feet of—
More than 50 pounds of non-fire-retardant wood.
Thawing pipes electrically, except with heat tape
More than 10 pounds of combustible plastics.
Soldering or thawing with an open flame
Within 10 feet of—
Materials in a shaft, raise, or winze that could be ignited by hot metal or sparks.
(5) Cover or bulkhead the opening immediately below and adjacent to the activity with noncombustible material to prevent sparks or hot metal from falling down the shaft, raise, or winze. This alternative applies only to activities involving a shaft, raise, or winze.
(c) The affected area shall be inspected during the first hour after the operation is completed. Additional inspections shall be made or other fire prevention measures shall be taken if a fire hazard continues to exist.

# Ventilation Control Measures
§ 57.4760
Shaft mines.
(a) Shaft mines shall be provided with at least one of the following means to control the spread of fire, smoke, and toxic gases underground in the event of a fire: control doors, reversal of mechanical ventilation, or effective evacuation procedures. Under this standard, “shaft mine” means a mine in which any designated escapeway includes a mechanical hoisting device or a ladder ascent.
(1)
Control doors.
If used as an alternative, control doors shall be—
(i) Installed at or near shaft stations of intake shafts and any shaft designated as an escapeway under § 57.11053 or at other locations that provide equivalent protection;
(ii) Constructed and maintained according to Table C-3;
(iii) Provided with a means of remote closure at landings of timbered intake shafts unless a person specifically designated to close each door in the event of a fire can reach the door within three minutes;
(iv) Closed or opened only according to predetermined conditions and procedures;
(v) Constructed so that once closed they will not reopen as a result of a differential in air pressure;
(vi) Constructed so that they can be opened from either side by one person, or be provided with a personnel door that can be opened from either side; and
(vii) Clear of obstructions.
(2)
Mechanical ventilation reversal.
If used as an alternative, reversal of mechanical ventilation shall—
(i) Provide at all times at least the same degree of protection to persons underground as would be afforded by the installation of control doors;
(ii) Be accomplished by a main fan. If the main fan is located underground—
(A) The cable or conductors supplying power to the fan shall be routed through areas free of fire hazards; or
(B) The main fan shall be equipped with a second, independent power cable or set of conductors from the surface. The power cable or conductors shall be located so that an underground fire disrupting power in one cable or set of conductors will not affect the other; or
(C) A second fan capable of accomplishing ventilation reversal shall be available for use in the event of failure of the main fan;
(iii) Provide rapid air reversal that allows persons underground time to exit in fresh air by the second escapeway or find a place of refuge; and
(iv) Be done according to predetermined conditions and procedures.
(3)
Evacuation.
If used as an alternative, effective evacuation shall be demonstrated by actual evacuation of all persons underground to the surface in ten minutes or less through routes that will not expose persons to heat, smoke, or toxic fumes in the event of a fire.
(b) If the destruction of any bulkhead on an inactive level would allow fire contaminants to reach an escapeway, that bulkhead shall be constructed and maintained to provide at least the same protection as required for control doors under Table C-3.
Table C-3—Control Door Construction
Location
Minimum required construction
At least 50 feet from: timbered areas, exposed combustible rock, and any other combustible material
1
Control door that meets the requirements for a ventilation door in conformance with 30 CFR 57.8531.
Within 50 feet but no closer than 20 feet of: timbered areas, exposed combustible rock, or other combustible material
1
Within 20 feet of: any timbered areas or combustible rock, provided that the timber and combustible rock within the 20 foot distance are coated with one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other material with equivalent fire protection characteristics and no other combustible material
1
is within that distance
Control door that serves as a barrier to the effects of fire and air leakage. The control door shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of no less than one-quarter inch of plate steel with channel or angle-iron reinforcement to minimize warpage. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength.
Within 20 feet of: timbered areas, exposed combustible rock, or other combustible material
1
Control door that serves as a barrier to fire, the effects of fire, and air-leakage. The door shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of two layers of wood, each a minimum of three-quarters of an inch in thickness. The wood grain of one layer shall be perpendicular to the wood grain of the other layer. The wood construction shall be covered on all sides and edges with no less than twenty-four gauge sheet steel. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength. Roll-down steel doors with a fire-resistance rating of 1
1/2
hours or greater, but without an insulation core, are acceptable if an automatic sprinkler or deluge system is installed that provides even coverage of the door on both sides.
1
In this table, “combustible material” does not refer to installed wiring or track support.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985; 50 FR 20100, May 14, 1985]
§ 57.4761
Underground shops.
To confine or prevent the spread of toxic gases from a fire originating in an underground shop where maintenance work is routinely done on mobile equipment, one of the following measures shall be taken: use of control doors or bulkheads, routing of the mine shop air directly to an exhaust system, reversal of mechanical ventilation, or use of an automatic fire suppression system in conjunction with an alternate escape route. The alternative used shall at all times provide at least the same degree of safety as control doors or bulkheads.
(a)
Control doors or bulkheads.
If used as an alternative, control doors or bulkheads shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Each control door or bulkhead shall be constructed to serve as a barrier to fire, the effects of fire, and air leakage at each opening to the shop.
(2) Each control door shall be—
(i) Constructed so that, once closed, it will not reopen as a result of a differential in air pressure;
(ii) Constructed so that it can be opened from either side by one person or be provided with a personnel door that can be opened from either side;
(iii) Clear of obstructions; and
(iv) Provided with a means of remote or automatic closure unless a person specifically designated to close the door in the event of a fire can reach the door within three minutes.
(3) If located 20 feet or more from exposed timber or other combustible material, the control doors or bulkheads
shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of no less than one-quarter inch of plate steel with channel or angle-iron reinforcement to minimize warpage. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength.
(4) If located less than 20 feet from exposed timber or other combustibles, the control door or bulkhead shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of two layers of wood, each a minimum of three-quarters of an inch in thickness. The wood-grain of one layer shall be perpendicular to the wood-grain of the other layer. The wood construction shall be covered on all sides and edges with no less than 24-gauge sheet steel. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength. Roll-down steel doors with a fire-resistance rating of 1
1/2
hours or greater, but without an insulation core, are acceptable provided that an automatic sprinkler or deluge system is installed that provides even coverage of the door on both sides.
(b)
Routing air to exhaust system.
If used as an alternative, routing the mine shop exhaust air directly to an exhaust system shall be done so that no person would be exposed to toxic gases in the event of a shop fire.
(c)
Mechanical ventilation reversal.
If used as an alternative, reversal of mechanical ventilation shall—
(1) Be accomplished by a main fan. If the main fan is located underground:
(i) The cable or conductors supplying power to the fan shall be routed through areas free of fire hazards; or
(ii) The main fan shall be equipped with a second, independent power cable or set of conductors from the surface. The power cable or conductors shall be located so that an underground fire disrupting power in one cable or set of conductors will not affect the other; or
(iii) A second fan capable of accomplishing ventilation reversal shall be available for use in the event of failure of the main fan;
(2) Provide rapid air reversal that allows persons underground time to exit in fresh air by the second escapeway or find a place of refuge; and
(3) Be done according to predetermined conditions and procedures.
(d)
Automatic fire suppression system and escape route.
If used as an alternative, the automatic fire suppression system and alternate escape route shall meet the following requirements:
(1) The suppression system shall be—
(i) Located in the shop area;
(ii) The appropriate size and type for the particular fire hazards involved; and
(iii) Inspected at weekly intervals and properly maintained.
(2) The escape route shall bypass the shop area so that the route will not be affected by a fire in the shop area.
Pt. 57, Subpt. C., App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 57—National Consensus Standards
Mine operators seeking further information in the area of fire prevention and control may consult the following national consensus standards.
MSHA standard
National consensus standard
§§ 57.4200, 57.4201, 57.4261, and 57.4262
NFPA No. 10—Portable Fire Extinguisher.
NFPA No. 11—Low Expansion Foam and Combined Agent Systems.
NFPA No. 11A—High Expansion Foam Systems.
NFPA No. 12—Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems.
NFPA No. 12A—Halon 1301 Extinguishing Systems.
NFPA No. 13—Water Sprinkler Systems.
NFPA No. 14—Standpipe and Hose Systems.
NFPA No. 15—Water Spray Fixed Systems.
NFPA No. 16—Foam Water Spray Systems.
NFPA No. 17—Dry-Chemical Extinguishing Systems.
NFPA No. 121—Mobile Surface Mining Equipment.
NFPA No. 291—Testing and Marking Hydrants.
NFPA No. 1962—Care, Use, and Maintenance of Fire Hose, Connections, and Nozzles.
§ 57.4202
NFPA No. 14—Standpipe and Hose Systems.
NFPA No. 291—Testing and Marking Hydrants.
§ 57.4203
NFPA No. 10—Portable Fire Extinguishers.
§ 57.4230
NFPA No. 10—Portable Fire Extinguishers.
NFPA No. 121—Mobile Surface Mining Equipment.
§ 57.4260
NFPA No. 10—Portable Fire Extinguishers.
§ 57.4261
NFPA No. 14—Standpipe and Hose Systems.
§ 57.4533
NFPA Fire Protection Handbook.
§ 57.4560
ASTM E-162—Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.

# Subpart D—Air Quality, Radiation, Physical Agents, and Diesel Particulate Matter

# Air Quality—Surface and Underground
§ 57.5001
Exposure limits for airborne contaminants.
The following is required until April 7, 2026. Except as permitted by § 57.5005—
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), the exposure to airborne contaminants shall not exceed, on the basis of a time weighted average, the threshold limit values adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, as set forth and explained in the 1973 edition of the Conference's publication, entitled “TLV's Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances in Workroom Air Adopted by ACGIH for 1973,” pages 1 through 54, which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. This publication may be obtained from the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists by writing to 1330 Kemper Meadow Drive, Attn: Customer Service, Cincinnati, OH 45240,
http://www.acgih.org
, or may be examined in any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Excursions above the listed thresholds shall not be of a greater magnitude than is characterized as permissible by the Conference.
(b)
Asbestos standard
—(1)
Definitions.
Asbestos is a generic term for a number of asbestiform hydrated silicates that, when crushed or processed, separate into flexible fibers made up of fibrils.
Asbestos
means chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), crocidolite, anthophylite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, and actinolite asbestos.
Asbestos fiber
means a fiber of asbestos that meets the criteria of a fiber.
Fiber
means a particle longer than 5 micrometers (µm) with a length-to-diameter ratio of at least 3-to-1.
(2)
Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs)
—(i)
Full-shift limit.
A miner's personal exposure to asbestos shall not exceed an 8-hour time-weighted average full-shift airborne concentration of 0.1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc).
(ii)
Excursion limit.
No miner shall be exposed at any time to airborne concentrations of asbestos in excess of 1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc) as averaged over a sampling period of 30 minutes.
(3)
Measurement of airborne asbestos fiber concentration.
Potential asbestos fiber concentration shall be determined by phase contrast microscopy (PCM) using the OSHA Reference Method in OSHA's asbestos standard found in 29 CFR 1910.1001, Appendix A, or a method at least equivalent to that method in identifying a potential asbestos exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit. When PCM results indicate a potential exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit, samples shall be further analyzed using transmission electron microscopy according to NIOSH Method 7402 or a method at least equivalent to that method.
(c) Employees shall be withdrawn from areas where there is present an airborne contaminant given a “C” designation by the Conference and the concentration exceeds the threshold limit value listed for that contaminant.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006; 73 FR 11303, Feb. 29, 2008; 73 FR 66172, Nov. 7, 2008; 89 FR 28469, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024, § 57.5001 was removed, effective Apr. 8, 2026.
§ 57.5001T
Exposure limits for airborne contaminants.
As of April 8, 2026, except as permitted by § 57.5005—
(a)
TLVs standard.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in part 60 of this chapter, the exposure to airborne contaminants shall not exceed, on the basis of a time weighted
average, the threshold limit values adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, as set forth and explained in the 1973 edition of the Conference's publication, entitled
TLV's Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances in Workroom Air Adopted by ACGIH for 1973,
pages 1 through 54. This publication is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or at any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 1330 Kemper Meadow Drive, Attn: Customer Service, Cincinnati, OH 45240;
www.acgih.org.
(b)
Asbestos standard
—(1)
Definitions.
Asbestos is a generic term for a number of asbestiform hydrated silicates that, when crushed or processed, separate into flexible fibers made up of fibrils.
Asbestos
means chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), crocidolite, anthophylite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, and actinolite asbestos.
Asbestos fiber
means a fiber of asbestos that meets the criteria of a fiber.
Fiber
means a particle longer than 5 micrometers (µm) with a length-to-diameter ratio of at least 3-to-1.
(2)
Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs)
—(i)
Full-shift limit.
A miner's personal exposure to asbestos shall not exceed an 8-hour time-weighted average full-shift airborne concentration of 0.1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc).
(ii)
Excursion limit.
No miner shall be exposed at any time to airborne concentrations of asbestos in excess of 1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc) as averaged over a sampling period of 30 minutes.
(3)
Measurement of airborne asbestos fiber concentration.
Potential asbestos fiber concentration shall be determined by phase contrast microscopy (PCM) using the OSHA Reference Method in OSHA's asbestos standard found in 29 CFR 1910.1001, Appendix A, or a method at least equivalent to that method in identifying a potential asbestos exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit. When PCM results indicate a potential exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit, samples shall be further analyzed using transmission electron microscopy according to NIOSH Method 7402 or a method at least equivalent to that method.
(c)
Required action.
Employees shall be withdrawn from areas where there is present an airborne contaminant given a “C” designation by the Conference and the concentration exceeds the threshold limit value listed for that contaminant.
[89 FR 28469, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024, § 57.5001T was redesignated as § 57.5001, effective Apr. 8, 2026.
§ 57.5002
Exposure monitoring.
Dust, gas, mist, and fume surveys shall be conducted as frequently as necessary to determine the adequacy of control measures.
§ 57.5005
Control of exposure to airborne contaminants.
The following is required until April 7, 2026. Control of employee exposure to harmful airborne contaminants shall be, insofar as feasible, by prevention of contamination, removal by exhaust ventilation, or by dilution with uncontaminated air. However, where accepted engineering control measures have not been developed or when necessary by the nature of work involved (for example, while establishing controls or occasional entry into hazardous atmospheres to perform maintenance or investigation), employees may work for reasonable periods of time in concentrations of airborne contaminants exceeding permissible levels
if they are protected by appropriate respiratory protective equipment. Whenever respiratory protective equipment is used a program for selection, maintenance, training, fitting, supervision, cleaning, and use shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a) Respirators approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 which are applicable and suitable for the purpose intended shall be furnished and miners shall use the protective equipment in accordance with training and instruction.
(b) A respirator program consistent with the requirements of ANSI Z88.2-1969, published by the American National Standards Institute and entitled “American National Standards Practices for Respiratory Protection ANSI Z88.2-1969,” approved August 11, 1969, which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. This publication may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036;
http://www.ansi.org
, or may be examined in any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
(c) When respiratory protection is used in atmospheres immediately harmful to life, the presence of at least one other person with backup equipment and rescue capability shall be required in the event of failure of the respiratory equipment.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 30400, June 8, 1995; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006; 89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024, § 57.5005 was removed, effective Apr. 8, 2026.
§ 57.5005T
Control of exposure to airborne contaminants.
As of April 8, 2026, the following is required. Control of employee exposure to harmful airborne contaminants shall be, insofar as feasible, by prevention of contamination, removal by exhaust ventilation, or by dilution with uncontaminated air. However, where accepted engineering control measures have not been developed or when necessary by the nature of work involved (for example, while establishing controls or occasional entry into hazardous atmospheres to perform maintenance or investigation), employees may work for reasonable periods of time in concentrations of airborne contaminants exceeding permissible levels if they are protected by appropriate respiratory protective equipment. Whenever respiratory protective equipment is used, its selection, fitting, maintenance, cleaning, training, supervision, and use shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a) Respirators approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 which are applicable and suitable for the purpose intended shall be furnished and miners shall use the protective equipment in accordance with training and instruction.
(b) A written respiratory protection program consistent with the requirements of ASTM F3387-19,
Standard Practice for Respiratory Protection,
approved August 1, 2019, which is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959;
www.astm.org.
(c) When respiratory protection is used in atmospheres immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH), the presence of at least one other person with backup equipment and rescue capability shall be required in the event of failure of the respiratory equipment.
[89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024, § 57.5005T was redesignated as § 57.5005, effective Apr. 8, 2026.
§ 57.5006
Restricted use of chemicals.
The following chemical substances shall not be used or stored except by competent persons under laboratory conditions approved by a nationally recognized agency acceptable to the Secretary.
(a) Carbon tetrachloride,
(b) Phenol,
(c) 4-Nitrobiphenyl,
(d) Alpha-naphthylamine,
(e) 4,4-Methylene Bis (2-chloroaniline),
(f) Methyl-chloromethyl ether,
(g) 3,3 Dichlorobenzidine,
(h) Bis (chloromethyl) ether,
(i) Beta-napthylamine,
(j) Benzidine,
(k) 4-Aminodiphenyl,
(l) Ethyleneimine,
(m) Beta-propiolactone,
(n) 2-Acetylaminofluorene,
(o) 4-Dimethylaminobenzene, and
(p) N-Nitrosodimethylamine.
Air Quality—Surface Only [Reserved]

# Air Quality—Underground Only
§ 57.5015
Oxygen deficiency.
Air in all active workings shall contain at least 19.5 volume percent oxygen.

# Radiation—Underground Only
§ 57.5037
Radon daughter exposure monitoring.
(a) In all mines at least one sample shall be taken in exhaust mine air by a competent person to determine if concentrations of radon daughters are present. Sampling shall be done using suggested equipment and procedures described in section 14.3 of ANSI N13.8-1973, entitled “American National Standard Radiation Protection in Uranium Mines,” approved July 18, 1973, pages 13-15, by the American National Standards Institute, Inc., which is incorporated by reference and made a part of the standard or equivalent procedures and equipment acceptable to the Administrator, MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health district office. This publication may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health Subdistrict Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, or may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036;
http://www.ansi.org.
The mine operator may request that the required exhaust mine air sampling be done by the Mine Safety and Health Administration. If concentrations of radon daughters in excess of 0.1 WL are found in an exhaust air sample, thereafter—
(1) Where uranium is mined—radon daughter concentrations representative of worker's breathing zone shall be determined at least every two weeks at random times in all active working areas such as stopes, drift headings, travelways, haulageways, shops, stations, lunch rooms, magazines, and any other place or location where persons work, travel, or congregate. However, if concentrations of radon daughters are found in excess of 0.3 WL in an active working area, radon daughter concentrations thereafter shall be determined weekly in that working area until such time as the weekly determinations in that area have been 0.3 WL or less for 5 consecutive weeks.
(2) Where uranium is not mined—when radon daughter concentrations between 0.1 and 0.3 WL are found in an active working area, radon daughter concentration measurements representative of worker's breathing zone shall be determined at least every 3 months at random times until such time as the radon daughter concentrations in that area are below 0.1 WL, and annually thereafter. If concentrations of radon daughters are found in excess of 0.3 WL in an active working area radon daughter concentrations thereafter shall be determined at least weekly in that working area until such time as the weekly determinations in that area have been 0.3 WL or less for 5 consecutive weeks.
(b) If concentrations of radon daughters less than 0.1 WL are found in an exhaust mine air sample, thereafter:
(1) Where uranium is mined—at least one sample shall be taken in the exhaust mine air monthly.
(2) Where uranium is not mined—no further exhaust mine air sampling is required.
(c) The sample date, locations, and results obtained under (a) and (b) above shall be recorded and retained at the mine site or nearest mine office for at least two years and shall be made available for inspection by the Secretary or his authorized representative.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 57.5038
Annual exposure limits.
No person shall be permitted to receive an exposure in excess of 4 WLM in any calendar year.
§ 57.5039
Maximum permissible concentration.
Except as provided by standard § 57.5005, persons shall not be exposed to air containing concentrations of radon daughters exceeding 1.0 WL in active workings.
§ 57.5040
Exposure records.
(a) The operator shall calculate and record complete individual exposures to concentrations of radon daughters as follows:
(1) Where uranium is mined—the complete individual exposures of all mine personnel working underground shall be calculated and recorded. These records shall include the individual's time in each active working area such as stopes, drift headings, travelways, haulageways, shops, stations, lunch rooms, magazines and any other place or location where persons work, travel or congregate, and the concentration of airborne radon daughters for each active working area.
(2) Where uranium is not mined—the complete individual exposure of all mine personnel working in active working areas with radon daughter concentrations in excess of 0.3 WL shall be calculated and recorded. These records shall include the individual's time in each active working area and the concentrations of airborne radon daughters for each active working area. The operator may discontinue calculating and recording the individual exposures of any personnel assigned to work in active working areas where radon daughter concentrations have been reduced to 0.3 WL or less for 5 consecutive weeks provided that such exposure calculation and recordation shall not be discontinued with respect to any person who has accumulated more exposure than
1/12
(one-twelfth) of a WLM times the number of months for which exposures have been calculated and recorded in the calendar year in which the exposure calculation and recordation is proposed to be discontinued.
(b) The operator shall maintain the form entitled “Record of Individual Exposure to Radon Daughters” (Form 4000-9), or equivalent forms that are acceptable to the Administrator, Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health, Mine Safety and Health Administration, on which there shall be recorded the specific information required by the form with respect to each person's time-weighted current and cumulative exposure to concentrations of radon daughters.
(1) The form entitled “Record of Individual Exposure to Radon Daughters” (Form 4000-9), shall consist of an original of each form for the operator's records which shall be available for examination by the Secretary or his authorized representative.
(2) On or before February 15 of each calendar year, or within 45 days after the shutdown of mining operations for the calendar year, each mine operator shall submit to the Mine Safety and Health Administration a copy of the “Record of Individual Exposure to Radon Daughters” (Form 4000-9), or acceptable equivalent form, showing the data required by the form for all personnel for whom calculation and recording of exposure was required during the previous calendar year.
(3) Errors detected by the operator shall be corrected on any forms kept by the operator and a corrected copy of any forms submitted to the Mine Safety and Health Administration shall be submitted to the Mine Safety and Health Administration within 60 days of detection and shall identify the errors and indicate the date the corrections are made.
(4) The operator's records of individual exposure to concentrations of radon daughters and copies of “Record of Individual Exposure to Radon Daughters” (Form 4000-9) or acceptable
equivalent form or true legible facsimiles thereof (microfilm or other), shall be retained at the mine or nearest mine office for a period as specified in paragraph 9.8, ANSI N13.8-1973, or shall be submitted to the Mine Safety and Health Administration. These records, if retained by the operator, shall be open for inspection by the Secretary of Labor, his authorized representative, and authorized representatives of the official mine inspection agency of the State in which the mine is located. Paragraph 9.8, ANSI N13.8-1973, is incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. ANSI N13.8-1973 may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., at 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036;
http://www.ansi.org.
(5) Upon written request from a person who is a subject of these records, a statement of the year-to-date and cumulative exposure applicable to that person shall be provided to the person or to whomever such person designates.
(6) The blank form entitled “Record of Individual Exposure to Radon Daughters” (Form 4000-9) may be obtained on request from any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health district office.

# Note:
To calculate an individual's exposure to WLM for a given period of time, multiply the total exposure time (hours to the nearest half-hour) in an active working area by the average concentration of airborne radon daughters for the applicable active working area (average working level calculated to the nearest hundredth working level) and divide the product by the constant 173 hours per month.
An average airborne radon daughter concentration for a designated active working area shall be determined by averaging all sampling results for that working area during the time that persons are present. Any sample taken by Federal or State mine inspectors, which represents exposure to miners and reported to the operator within three days of being taken, shall be included in the average concentration; except that if the mine operator samples simultaneously with the inspector, he may use his own sample results.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 57.5041
Smoking prohibition.
Smoking shall be prohibited in all areas of a mine where exposure records are required to be kept in compliance with standard 57.5040.
§ 57.5042
Revised exposure levels.
If levels of permissible exposures to concentrations of radon daughters different from those prescribed in 57.5038 are recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency and approved by the President, no employee shall be permitted to receive exposures in excess of those levels after the effective dates established by the Agency.
§ 57.5044
Respirators.
In environments exceeding 1.0 WL, miners shall wear respirators approved by NIOSH for radon daughters prior to July 10, 1995 or under the equivalent section of 42 CFR part 84 and such respirator use shall be in compliance with § 57.5005.
[60 FR 30400, June 8, 1995]
§ 57.5045
Posting of inactive workings.
Inactive workings in which radon daughter concentrations are above 1.0 WL, shall be posted against unauthorized entry and designated by signs indicating them as areas in which approved respirators shall be worn.
§ 57.5046
Protection against radon gas.
Where radon daughter concentrations exceed 10 WL, respirator protection against radon gas shall be provided in addition to protection against radon daughters. Protection against radon gas shall be provided by supplied air devices or by face masks containing absorbent material capable of removing both the radon and its daughters.
§ 57.5047
Gamma radiation surveys.
(a) Gamma radiation surveys shall be conducted annually in all underground mines where radioactive ores are mined.
(b) Surveys shall be in accordance with American National Standards (ANSI) Standard N13.8-1973, entitled “Radiation Protection in Uranium Mines”, section 14.1 page 12, which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. This publication
may be examined in any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office, Mine Safety and Health Administration, or may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036;
http://www.ansi.org.
(c) Where average gamma radiation measurements are in excess of 2.0 milliroentgens per hour in the working place, gamma radiation dosimeters shall be provided for all persons affected, and records of cumulative individual gamma radiation exposure shall be kept.
(d) Annual individual gamma radiation exposure shall not exceed 5 rems.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Diesel Particulate Matter—Underground Only

# Source:
66 FR 5907, Jan. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 57.5060
Limit on exposure to diesel particulate matter.
(a) A miner's personal exposure to diesel particulate matter (DPM) in an underground mine must not exceed an average eight-hour equivalent full shift airborne concentration of 308 micrograms of elemental carbon per cubic meter of air (308
EC
µg/m
3
). [This interim permissible exposure limit (PEL) remains in effect until the final DPM exposure limit becomes effective. When the final DPM exposure limit becomes effective, MSHA will publish a document in the
Federal Register.
]
(b)(1) Effective May 20, 2006, a miner's personal exposure to diesel particulate matter (DPM) in an underground mine must not exceed an average eight-hour equivalent full shift airborne concentration of 308 micrograms of elemental carbon per cubic meter of air (308
EC
µg/m
3
).
(2) Effective January 20, 2007, a miner's personal exposure to diesel particulate matter (DPM) in an underground mine must not exceed an average eight-hour equivalent full shift airborne concentration of 350 micrograms of total carbon per cubic meter of air (350
TC
µg/m
3
).
(3) Effective May 20, 2008, a miner's personal exposure to diesel particulate matter (DPM) in an underground mine must not exceed an average eight-hour equivalent full shift airborne concentration of 160 micrograms of total carbon per cubic meter of air (160
TC
µg/m
3
).
(c)(1) If a mine requires additional time to come into compliance with the final DPM limit established in § 57.5060 (b) due to technological or economic constraints, the operator of the mine may file an application with the District Manager for a special extension.
(2) The mine operator must certify on the application that the operator has posted one copy of the application at the mine site for at least 30 days prior to the date of application, and has provided another copy to the authorized representative of miners.
(3) No approval of a special extension shall exceed a period of one year from the date of approval. Mine operators may file for additional special extensions provided each extension does not exceed a period of one year. An application must include the following information:
(i) Documentation supporting that controls are technologically or economically infeasible at this time to reduce the miner's exposure to the final DPM limit.
(ii) The most recent DPM monitoring results.
(iii) The actions the operator will take during the extension to minimize exposure of miners to DPM.
(4) A mine operator must comply with the terms of any approved application for a special extension, post a copy of the approved application for a special extension at the mine site for the duration of the special extension period, and provide a copy of the approved application to the authorized representative of miners.
(d) The mine operator must install, use, and maintain feasible engineering and administrative controls to reduce a miner's exposure to or below the applicable DPM PEL established in this section. When controls do not reduce a miner's DPM exposure to the PEL, controls are infeasible, or controls do not produce significant reductions in DPM
exposures, controls must be used to reduce the miner's exposure to as low a level as feasible and must be supplemented with respiratory protection in accordance with § 57.5005(a), (b), and paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section.
(1) Air purifying respirators must be equipped with the following:
(i) Filters certified by NIOSH under 30 CFR part 11 (appearing in the July 1, 1994 edition of 30 CFR, parts 1 to 199) as a high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter;
(ii) Filters certified by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 as 99.97% efficient; or
(iii) Filters certified by NIOSH for DPM.
(2) Non-powered, negative-pressure, air purifying, particulate-filter respirators shall use an R- or P-series filter or any filter certified by NIOSH for DPM. An R-series filter shall not be used for longer than one work shift.
(3) The mine operator must provide a confidential medical evaluation by a physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP), at no cost to the miner, to determine the miner's ability to use a respirator before the miner is required to be fit tested or to use a respirator at the mine. If the PLHCP determines that the miner cannot wear a negative pressure respirator, the mine operator must make certain that the PLHCP evaluates the miner's ability to wear a powered air purifying respirator (PAPR).
(4) The mine operator must provide the miner with an opportunity to discuss their evaluation results with the PLHCP before the PLHCP submits the written determination to the mine operator regarding the miner's ability to wear a respirator. If the miner disagrees with the evaluation results of the PLHCP, the miner may submit within 30 days additional evidence of his or her medical condition to the PLHCP.
(5) The mine operator must obtain a written determination from the PLHCP regarding the miner's ability to wear a respirator, and the mine operator must assure that the PLHCP provides a copy of the determination to the miner.
(6) The miner must be reevaluated when the mine operator has reason to believe that conditions have changed which could adversely affect the miner's ability to wear the respirator.
(7) Upon written notification that the PLHCP has determined that the miner is unable to wear a respirator, including a PAPR, the miner must be transferred to work in an existing position in an area of the same mine where respiratory protection is not required. The miner must be transferred within 30 days of the final determination by the PLHCP.
(i) The miner must continue to receive compensation at no less than the regular rate of pay in the classification held by that miner immediately prior to the transfer.
(ii) Increases in wages of the transferred miner must be based upon the new work classification.
(8) The mine operator must maintain a record of the identity of the PLHCP and the most recent written determination of each miner's ability to wear a respirator for the duration of the miner's employment plus six months.
(e) Rotation of miners shall not be considered an acceptable administrative control used for compliance with the DPM standard.
[70 FR 32966, June 6, 2005; 70 FR 37901, June 30, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 55019, Sept. 19, 2005; 71 FR 29011, 29012, May 18, 2006; 71 FR 36483, June 27, 2006]
§ 57.5061
Compliance determinations.
(a) MSHA will use a single sample collected and analyzed by the Secretary in accordance with the requirements of this section as an adequate basis for a determination of noncompliance with the DPM limit.
(b) The Secretary will collect samples of DPM by using a respirable dust sampler equipped with a submicrometer impactor and analyze the samples for the amount of elemental carbon using the method described in NIOSH Analytical Method 5040, except that the Secretary also may use any methods of collection and analysis subsequently determined by NIOSH to provide equal or improved accuracy for the measurement of DPM.
(c) The Secretary will use full-shift personal sampling for compliance determinations.
[70 FR 32966, June 6, 2005]
§ 57.5065
Fueling practices.
(a) Diesel fuel used to power equipment in underground areas must not have a sulfur content greater than 0.05 percent. The operator must retain purchase records that demonstrate compliance with this requirement for one year after the date of purchase.
(b) The operator must only use fuel additives registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in diesel powered equipment operated in underground areas.
[66 FR 5907, Jan. 19, 2001; 66 FR 35520, July 5, 2001]
§ 57.5066
Maintenance standards.
(a) Any diesel powered equipment operated at any time in underground areas must meet the following maintenance standards:
(1) The operator must maintain any approved engine in approved condition;
(2) The operator must maintain the emission related components of any non-approved engine to manufacturer specifications; and
(3) The operator must maintain any emission or particulate control device installed on the equipment in effective operating condition.
(b)(1) A mine operator must authorize each miner operating diesel-powered equipment underground to affix a visible and dated tag to the equipment when the miner notes evidence that the equipment may require maintenance in order to comply with the maintenance standards of paragraph (a) of this section. The term
evidence
means visible smoke or odor that is unusual for that piece of equipment under normal operating procedures, or obvious or visible defects in the exhaust emissions control system or in the engine affecting emissions.
(2) A mine operator must ensure that any equipment tagged pursuant to this section is promptly examined by a person authorized to maintain diesel equipment, and that the affixed tag not be removed until the examination has been completed. The term
promptly
means before the end of the next shift during which a qualified mechanic is scheduled to work.
(3) A mine operator must retain a log of any equipment tagged pursuant to this section. The log must include the date the equipment is tagged, the date the equipment is examined, the name of the person examining the equipment, and any action taken as a result of the examination. The operator must retain the information in the log for one year after the date the tagged equipment was examined.
(c) Persons authorized by a mine operator to maintain diesel equipment covered by paragraph (a) of this section must be qualified, by virtue of training or experience, to ensure that the maintenance standards of paragraph (a) of this section are observed. An operator must retain appropriate evidence of the competence of any person to perform specific maintenance tasks in compliance with those standards for one year after the date of any maintenance, and upon request must provide the documentation to the authorized representative of the Secretary.
[66 FR 5907, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 9184, Feb. 27, 2002]

# Effective Date Note:
At 66 FR 5907, Jan. 19, 2001, § 57.5066 was added, effective July 5, 2001, except for paragraph (b). At 66 FR 35518, July 5, 2001, the effective date of paragraph (b) was delayed pending disposition of current litigation challenging the rule. At 67 FR 9184, Feb. 27, 2002, paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) were revised, effective Mar. 29, 2002.
§ 57.5067
Engines.
(a) Any diesel engine introduced into an underground area of a mine covered by this part after July 5, 2001, other than an engine in an ambulance or fire fighting equipment which is utilized in accordance with mine fire fighting and evacuation plans, must either:
(1) Have affixed a plate evidencing approval of the engine pursuant to subpart E of Part 7 of this title or pursuant to Part 36 of this title; or
(2) Meet or exceed the applicable particulate matter emission requirements of the Environmental Protection Administration listed in Table 57.5067-1, as follows:
Table 57.5067-1
EPA requirement
EPA category
PM limit
40 CFR 86.094-8(a)(1)(i)(A)(2)
light duty vehicle
0.1 g/mile.
40 CFR 86.094-9(a)(1)(i)(A)(2)
light duty truck
0.1 g/mile.
40 CFR 86.094-11(a)(1)(iv)(B)
heavy duty highway engine
0.1 g/bhp-hr.
40 CFR 89.112(a)
nonroad (tier, power range)
varies by power range:
tier 1 kW
8 (hp
11)
1.0 g/kW-hr (0.75 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 8≤kW
19 (11≤hp
25)
0.80 g/kW-hr (0.60 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 19≤kW
37 (25≤hp
50)
0.80 g/kW-hr (0.60 g/bhp-hr).
tier 2 37≤kW
75 (50≤hp
100)
0.40 g/kW-hr (0.30 g/bhp-hr).
tier 2 75≤kW
130 (100≤hp
175)
0.30 g/kW-hr (0.22 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 130≤kW
225 (175≤hp
300)
0.54 g/kW-hr (0.40 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 225≤kW
450 (300≤hp
600)
0.54 g/kW-hr (0.40 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 450≤kW
560 (600≤hp
750)
0.54 g/kW-hr (0.40 g/bhp-hr).
tier 1 kW≥560 (hp≥750)
0.54 g/kW-hr (0.40 g/bhp-hr).
Notes:
“g” means grams.
“hp” means horsepower.
“g/bhp-hr” means grams/brake horsepower-hour.
“kW” means kilowatt.
“g/kW-hr” means grams/kilowatt-hour.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a):
(1) The term “introduced” means any engine added to the underground inventory of engines of the mine in question, including:
(i) An engine in newly purchased equipment;
(ii) An engine in used equipment brought into the mine; and
(iii) A replacement engine that has a different serial number than the engine it is replacing; but
(2) The term “introduced” does not include engines that were previously part of the mine inventory and rebuilt.
(3) The term
introduced
does not include the transfer of engines or equipment from the inventory of one underground mine to another underground mine operated by the same mine operator.
[66 FR 5907, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 27864, May 21, 2001; 67 FR 9184, Feb. 27, 2002]
§ 57.5070
Miner training.
(a) Mine operators must provide annual training to all miners at a mine covered by this part who can reasonably be expected to be exposed to diesel emissions on that property. The training must include—
(1) The health risks associated with exposure to diesel particulate matter;
(2) The methods used in the mine to control diesel particulate matter concentrations;
(3) Identification of the personnel responsible for maintaining those controls; and
(4) Actions miners must take to ensure the controls operate as intended.
(b) An operator must retain a record at the mine site of the training required by this section for one year after completion of the training.
§ 57.5071
Exposure monitoring.
(a) Mine operators must monitor as often as necessary to effectively determine, under conditions that can be reasonably anticipated in the mine, whether the average personal full-shift airborne exposure to DPM exceeds the DPM limit specified in § 57.5060.
(b) The mine operator must provide affected miners and their representatives with an opportunity to observe exposure monitoring required by this section. Mine operators must give prior notice to affected miners and their representatives of the date and time of intended monitoring.
(c) If any monitoring performed under this section indicates that a miner's exposure to diesel particulate matter exceeds the DPM limit specified in § 57.5060, the operator must promptly post notice of the corrective action being taken on the mine bulletin board, initiate corrective action by the next work shift, and promptly complete such corrective action.
(d)(1) The results of monitoring for diesel particulate matter, including any results received by a mine operator
from sampling performed by the Secretary, must be posted on the mine bulletin board within 15 days of receipt and must remain posted for 30 days. The operator must provide a copy of the results to the authorized representative of miners.
(2) The mine operator must retain for five years (from the date of sampling), the results of any samples the operator collected as a result of monitoring under this section, and information about the sampling method used for obtaining the samples.
[70 FR 32966, June 6, 2005]
§ 57.5075
Diesel particulate records.
(a) The table entitled “Diesel Particulate Matter Recordkeeping Requirements” lists the records the operator must maintain pursuant to §§ 57.5060 through 57.5071, and the duration for which particular records need to be retained.
Table 57.5075(
a
)—Diesel Particulate Recordkeeping Requirements
Record
Section
reference
Retention time
1. Approved application for extension of time to comply with exposure limits
§ 57.5060(c)
Duration of extension.
2. Identity of PLHCP and most recent written determination of miner's ability to wear a respirator
§ 57.5060(d)
Duration of miner's employment plus 6 months.
3. Purchase records noting sulfur content of diesel fuel
§ 57.5065(a)
1 year beyond date of purchase.
4. Maintenance log
§ 57.5066(b)
1 year after date any equipment is tagged.
5. Evidence of competence to perform maintenance
§ 57.5066(c)
1 year after date maintenance performed.
6. Annual training provided to potentially exposed miners
§ 57.5070(b)
1 year beyond date training completed.
7. Record of corrective action
§ 57.5071(c)
Until the corrective action is completed.
8. Sampling method used to effectively evaluate a miner's personal exposure, and sample results
§ 57.5071(d)
5 years from sample date.
(b)(1) Any record listed in this section which is required to be retained at the mine site may, notwithstanding such requirement, be retained elsewhere if the mine operator can immediately access the record from the mine site by electronic transmission.
(2) Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or from the authorized representative of miners, mine operators must promptly provide access to any record listed in the table in this section.
(3) An operator must provide access to a miner, former miner, or, with the miner's or former miner's written consent, a personal representative of a miner, to any record required to be maintained pursuant to § 57.5071 or § 57.5060(d) to the extent the information pertains to the miner or former miner. The operator must provide the first copy of a requested record at no cost, and any additional copies at reasonable cost.
(4) Whenever an operator ceases to do business, that operator must transfer all records required to be maintained by this part, or a copy thereof, to any successor operator who must maintain them for the required period.
[70 FR 32966, June 6, 2005; 70 FR 37901, June 30, 2005; 71 FR 29012, May 18, 2006]

# Subpart E—Explosives

# Source:
61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 57.6000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Blasting agent.
Any substance classified as a blasting agent by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.114a(a). This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
Detonating cord.
A flexible cord containing a center core of high explosives which may be used to initiate other explosives.
Detonator.
Any device containing a detonating charge used to initiate an
explosive. These devices include electronic detonators, electric or nonelectric instantaneous or delay blasting caps, and delay connectors. The term “detonator” does not include detonating cord. Detonators may be either “Class A” detonators or “Class C” detonators, as classified by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.53 and 173.100, which is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
Explosive.
Any substance classified as an explosive by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.53, 173.88, and 173.100. This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
Explosive material.
Explosives, blasting agents, and detonators.
Flash point.
The minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture near the surface of the liquid.
Igniter cord.
A fuse that burns progressively along its length with an external flame at the zone of burning, used for lighting a series of safety fuses in a desired sequence.
Magazine.
A bullet-resistant, theft-resistant, fire-resistant, weather-resistant, ventilated facility for the storage of explosives and detonators (BATF Type 1 or Type 2 facility).
Misfire.
The complete or partial failure of explosive material to detonate as planned. The term also is used to describe the explosive material itself that has failed to detonate.
Primer.
A unit, package, or cartridge of explosives which contains a detonator and is used to initiate other explosives or blasting agents.
Safety switch.
A switch that provides shunt protection in blasting circuits between the blast site and the switch used to connect a power source to the blasting circuit.
Slurry.
An explosive material containing substantial portions of a liquid, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a thickener.
Water gel.
An explosive material containing substantial portions of water, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a cross-linking agent.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 32361, May 30, 2003; 69 FR 38842, June 29, 2004; 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]

# Storage—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6100
Separation of stored explosive material.
(a) Detonators shall not be stored in the same magazine with other explosive material.
(b) When stored in the same magazine, blasting agents shall be separated from explosives, safety fuse, and detonating cord to prevent contamination.
§ 57.6101
Areas around explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Areas surrounding storage facilities for explosive material shall be clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass, and trees for 25 feet in all directions, except that live trees 10 feet or taller need not be removed.
(b) Other combustibles shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate within 50 feet of explosive material. Combustible liquids shall be stored in a manner that ensures drainage will occur away from the explosive material storage facility in case of tank rupture.
§ 57.6102
Explosive material storage practices.
(a) Explosive material shall be—
(1) Stored in a manner to facilitate use of oldest stocks first;
(2) Stored according to brand and grade in such a manner as to facilitate identification; and
(3) Stacked in a stable manner but not more than 8 feet high.
(b) Explosives and detonators shall be stored in closed nonconductive containers except that nonelectric detonating devices may be stored on nonconductive racks provided the case-insert instructions and the date-plant-shift code are maintained with the product.

# Storage—Surface Only
§ 57.6130
Explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Detonators and explosives shall be stored in magazines.
(b) Packaged blasting agents shall be stored in a magazine or other facility which is ventilated to prevent dampness and excessive heating, weather-resistant, and locked or attended. Drop trailers do not have to be ventilated if they are currently licensed by the Federal, State, or local authorities for over-the-road use. Facilities other than magazines used to store blasting agents shall contain only blasting agents.
(c) Bulk blasting agents shall be stored in weather-resistant bins or tanks which are locked, attended, or otherwise inaccessible to unauthorized entry.
(d) Facilities, bins or tanks shall be posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach.
§ 57.6131
Location of explosive material storage facilities.
(a) Storage facilities for any explosive material shall be—
(1) Located so that the forces generated by a storage facility explosion will not create a hazard to occupants in mine buildings and will not damage dams or electric substations; and
(2) Detached structures located outside the blast area and a sufficient distance from powerlines so that the powerlines, if damaged, would not contact the magazines.
(b) Operators should also be aware of regulations affecting storage facilities in 27 CFR part 55, in particular, 27 CFR 55.218 and 55.220. This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.
§ 57.6132
Magazine requirements.
(a) Magazines shall be—
(1) Structurally sound;
(2) Noncombustible or the exterior covered with fire-resistant material;
(3) Bullet resistant;
(4) Made of nonsparking material on the inside;
(5) Ventilated to control dampness and excessive heating within the magazine;
(6) Posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach, so located that a bullet passing through any of the signs will not strike the magazine;
(7) Kept clean and dry inside;
(8) Unlighted or lighted by devices that are specifically designed for use in magazines and which do not create a fire or explosion hazard;
(9) Unheated or heated only with devices that do not create a fire or explosion hazard;
(10) Locked when unattended; and
(11) Used exclusively for the storage of explosive material except for essential nonsparking equipment used for the operation of the magazine.
(b) Metal magazines shall be equipped with electrical bonding connections between all conductive portions so the entire structure is at the same electrical potential. Suitable electrical bonding methods include welding, riveting, or the use of securely tightened bolts where individual metal portions are joined. Conductive portions of nonmetal magazines shall be grounded.
(c) Electrical switches and outlets shall be located on the outside of the magazine.
§ 57.6133
Powder chests.
(a) Powder chests (day boxes) shall be—
(1) Structurally sound, weather-resistant, equipped with a lid or cover, and with only nonsparking material on the inside;
(2) Posted with the appropriate United States Department of Transportation placards or other appropriate warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach;
(3) Located out of the blast area once loading has been completed;
(4) Locked or attended when containing explosive material; and
(5) Emptied at the end of each shift with the contents returned to a magazine or other storage facility, or attended.
(b) Detonators shall be kept in chests separate from explosives or blasting agents, unless separated by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated
partition. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52988, Sept. 2, 2015]

# Storage—Underground Only
§ 57.6160
Main facilities.
(a) Main facilities used to store explosive material underground shall be located—
(1) In stable or supported ground;
(2) So that a fire or explosion in the storage facilities will not prevent escape from the mine, or cause detonation of the contents of another storage facility;
(3) Out of the line of blasts, and protected from vehicular traffic, except that accessing the facility;
(4) At least 200 feet from work places or shafts;
(5) At least 50 feet from electric substations;
(6) A safe distance from trolley wires; and
(7) At least 25 feet from detonator storage facilities.
(b) Main facilities used to store explosive material underground shall be—
(1) Posted with warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from any approach;
(2) Used exclusively for the storage of explosive material and necessary equipment associated with explosive material storage and delivery:
(i) Portions of the facility used for the storage of explosives shall only contain nonsparking material or equipment.
(ii) The blasting agent portion of the facility may be used for the storage of other necessary equipment;
(3) Kept clean, suitably dry, and orderly;
(4) Provided with unobstructed ventilation openings;
(5) Kept securely locked unless all access to the mine is either locked or attended; and
(6) Unlighted or lighted only with devices that do not create a fire or explosion hazard and which are specifically designed for use in magazines.
(c) Electrical switches and outlets shall be located outside the facility.
§ 57.6161
Auxiliary facilities.
(a) Auxiliary facilities used to store explosive material near work places shall be wooden, box-type containers equipped with covers or doors, or facilities constructed or mined-out to provide equivalent impact resistance and confinement.
(b) The auxiliary facilities shall be—
(1) Constructed of nonsparking material on the inside when used for the storage of explosives;
(2) Kept clean, suitably dry, and orderly;
(3) Kept in repair;
(4) Located out of the line of blasts so they will not be subjected to damaging shock or flyrock;
(5) Identified with warning signs or coded to indicate the contents with markings visible from any approach;
(6) Located at least 15 feet from all haulageways and electrical equipment, or placed entirely within a mined-out recess in the rib used exclusively for explosive material;
(7) Filled with no more than a one-week supply of explosive material;
(8) Separated by at least 25 feet from other facilities used to store detonators; and
(9) Kept securely locked unless all access to the mine is either locked or attended.

# Transportation—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6200
Delivery to storage or blast site areas.
Explosive material shall be transported without undue delay to the storage area or blast site.
§ 57.6201
Separation of transported explosive material.
Detonators shall not be transported on the same vehicle or conveyance with other explosives except as follows:
(a) Detonators in quantities of more than 1,000 may be transported in a vehicle or conveyance with explosives or blasting agents provided the detonators are—
(1) Maintained in the original packaging as shipped from the manufacturer; and
(2) Separated from explosives or blasting agents by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. The hardwood or equivalent shall be fastened to the vehicle or conveyance. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of the Institute of Makers of Explosives (IME) Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for examination at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Detonators in quantities of 1,000 or fewer may be transported with explosives or blasting agents provided the detonators are—
(1) Kept in closed containers; and
(2) Separated from explosives or blasting agents by 4 inches of hardwood or equivalent, or a laminated partition. The hardwood or equivalent shall be fastened to the vehicle or conveyance. When a laminated partition is used, operators must follow the provisions of IME Safety Library Publication No. 22, “Recommendations for the Safe Transportation of Detonators in a Vehicle with Other Explosive Materials” (May 1993), and the “Generic Loading Guide for the IME-22 Container” (October 1993). The IME is located at 1120 19th Street NW., Suite 310, Washington, DC 20036-3605; 202-429-9280;
https://www.ime.org.
This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at all Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Offices, or available for examination at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52988, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 57.6202
Vehicles.
(a) Vehicles containing explosive material shall be—
(1) Maintained in good condition and shall comply with the requirements of subpart M of this part;
(2) Equipped with sides and enclosures higher than the explosive material being transported or have the explosive material secured to a nonconductive pallet;
(3) Equipped with a cargo space that shall contain the explosive material (passenger areas shall not be considered cargo space);
(4) Equipped with at least two multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguishers or one such extinguisher and an automatic fire suppression system;
(5) Posted with warning signs that indicate the contents and are visible from each approach;
(6) Occupied only by persons necessary for handling the explosive material;
(7) Attended or the cargo compartment locked at surface areas of underground mines, except when parked at the blast site and loading is in progress; and
(8) Secured while parked by having—
(i) The brakes set;
(ii) The wheels chocked if movement could occur; and
(iii) The engine shut off unless powering a device being used in the loading operation.
(b) Vehicles containing explosives shall have—
(1) No sparking material exposed in the cargo space; and
(2) Only properly secured nonsparking equipment in the cargo space with the explosives.
(c) Vehicles used for dispensing bulk explosive material shall—
(1) Have no zinc or copper exposed in the cargo space; and
(2) Provide any enclosed screw-type conveyors with protection against internal pressure and frictional heat.
§ 57.6203
Locomotives.
Explosive material shall not be transported on a locomotive. When explosive material is hauled by trolley locomotive, covered, electrically insulated cars shall be used.
§ 57.6204
Hoists.
(a) Before explosive material is transported in hoist conveyances—
(1) The hoist operator shall be notified; and
(2) Hoisting in adjacent shaft compartments, except for empty conveyances or counterweights, shall be stopped until transportation of the explosive material is completed.
(b) Explosive material transported in hoist conveyances shall be placed within a container which prevents shifting of the cargo that could cause detonation of the container by impact or by sparks. The manufacturer's container may be used if secured to a nonconductive pallet. When explosives are transported, they shall be secured so as not to contact any sparking material.
(c) No explosive material shall be transported during a mantrip.
§ 57.6205
Conveying explosives by hand.
Closed, nonconductive containers shall be used to carry explosives and detonators to and from blast sites. Separate containers shall be used for explosives and detonators.

# USE—SURFACE AND UNDERGROUND
§ 57.6300
Control of blasting operations.
(a) Only persons trained and experienced in the handling and use of explosive material shall direct blasting operations and related activities.
(b) Trainees and inexperienced persons shall work only in the immediate presence of persons trained and experienced in the handling and use of explosive material.
§ 57.6301
Blasthole obstruction check.
Before loading, blastholes shall be checked and, wherever possible, cleared of obstructions.
§ 57.6302
Separation of explosive material.
Explosives and blasting agents shall be kept separated from detonators until loading begins.
§ 57.6303
Initiation preparation.
(a) Primers shall be made up only at the time of use and as close to the blast site as conditions allow.
(b) Primers shall be prepared with the detonator contained securely and completely within the explosive or contained securely and appropriately for its design in the tunnel or cap well.
(c) When using detonating cord to initiate another explosive, a connection shall be prepared with the detonating cord threaded through, attached securely to, or otherwise in contact with the explosive.
§ 57.6304
Primer protection.
(a) Tamping shall not be done directly on a primer.
(b) Rigid cartridges of explosives or blasting agents that are 4 inches (100 millimeters) in diameter or larger shall not be dropped on the primer except where the blasthole contains sufficient depth of water to protect the primer from impact. Slit packages of prill, water gel, or emulsions are not considered rigid cartridges and may be drop loaded.
§ 57.6305
Unused explosive material.
Unused explosive material shall be moved to a protected location as soon as practical after loading operations are completed.
§ 57.6306
Loading, blasting, and security.
(a) When explosive materials or initiating systems are brought to the blast site, the blast site shall be attended; barricaded and posted with warning signs, such as “Danger,” “Explosives,” or “Keep Out;” or flagged against unauthorized entry.
(b) Vehicles and equipment shall not be driven over explosive material or initiating systems in a manner which could contact the material or system, or create other hazards.
(c) Once loading begins, the only activities permitted within the blast site shall be those activities directly related to the blasting operation and the activities of surveying, stemming, sampling of geology, and reopening of holes, provided that reasonable care is exercised. Haulage activity is permitted near the base of bench faces being loaded or awaiting firing, provided no other haulage access exists.
(d) Loading and blasting shall be conducted in a manner designed to facilitate a continuous process, with the blast fired as soon as possible following the completion of loading. If blasting a loaded round may be delayed for more than 72 hours, the operator shall notify the appropriate MSHA district office.
(e) In electric blasting prior to connecting to the power source, and in nonelectric blasting prior to attaching an initiating device, all persons shall leave the blast area except persons in a blasting shelter or other location that protects them from concussion (shock wave), flying material, and gases.
(f) Before firing a blast—
(1) Ample warning shall be given to allow all persons to be evacuated;
(2) Clear exit routes shall be provided for persons firing the round; and
(3) All access routes to the blast area shall be guarded or barricaded to prevent the passage of persons or vehicles.
(g) Work shall not be resumed in the blast area until a post-blast examination addressing potential blast-related hazards has been conducted by a person with the ability and experience to perform the examination.
§ 57.6307
Drill stem loading.
Explosive material shall not be loaded into blastholes with drill stem equipment or other devices that could be extracted while containing explosive material. The use of loading hose, collar sleeves, or collar pipes is permitted.
§ 57.6308
Initiation systems.
Initiation systems shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
§ 57.6309
Fuel oil requirements for ANFO.
(a) Liquid hydrocarbon fuels with flash points lower than that of No. 2 diesel oil (125 °F) shall not be used to prepare ammonium nitrate-fuel oil, except that diesel fuels with flash points no lower than 100 °F may be used at ambient air temperatures below 45 °F.
(b) Waste oil, including crankcase oil, shall not be used to prepare ammonium nitrate-fuel oil.
§ 57.6310
Misfire waiting period.
When a misfire is suspected, persons shall not enter the blast area—
(a) For 30 minutes if safety fuse and blasting caps are used;
(b) For 15 minutes if any other type detonators are used; or
(c) For 30 minutes if electronic detonators are used, or for the manufacturer-recommended time, whichever is longer.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]
§ 57.6311
Handling of misfires.
(a) Faces and muck piles shall be examined for misfires after each blasting operation.
(b) Only work necessary to remove a misfire and protect the safety of miners engaged in the removal shall be permitted in the affected area until the misfire is disposed of in a safe manner.
(c) When a misfire cannot be disposed of safely, each approach to the area affected by the misfire shall be posted with a warning sign at a conspicuous location to prohibit entry, and the condition shall be reported immediately to mine management.
(d) Misfires occurring during the shift shall be reported to mine management not later than the end of the shift.
§ 57.6312
Secondary blasting.
Secondary blasts fired at the same time in the same work area shall be initiated from one source.

# Electric Blasting—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6400
Compatibility of electric detonators.
All electric detonators to be fired in a round shall be from the same manufacturer and shall have similar electrical firing characteristics.
§ 57.6401
Shunting.
Except during testing—
(a) Electric detonators shall be kept shunted until connected to the blasting line or wired into a blasting round;
(b) Wired rounds shall be kept shunted until connected to the blasting line; and
(c) Blasting lines shall be kept shunted until immediately before blasting.
§ 57.6402
Deenergized circuits near detonators.
Electrical distribution circuits within 50 feet of electric detonators at the blast site shall be deenergized. Such circuits need not be deenergized between 25 to 50 feet of the electric detonators if stray current tests, conducted as frequently as necessary, indicate a maximum stray current of less than 0.05 ampere through a 1-ohm resistor as measured at the blast site.
§ 57.6403
Branch circuits.
(a) If electric blasting includes the use of branch circuits, each branch shall be equipped with a safety switch or equivalent method to isolate the circuits to be used.
(b) At least one safety switch or equivalent method of protection shall be located outside the blast area and shall be in the open position until persons are withdrawn.
§ 57.6404
Separation of blasting circuits from power source.
(a) Switches used to connect the power source to a blasting circuit shall be locked in the open position except when closed to fire the blast.
(b) Lead wires shall not be connected to the blasting switch until the shot is ready to be fired.
§ 57.6405
Firing devices.
(a) Power sources shall be capable of delivering sufficient current to energize all electric detonators to be fired with the type of circuits used. Storage or dry cell batteries are not permitted as power sources.
(b) Blasting machines shall be tested, repaired, and maintained in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(c) Only the blaster shall have the key or other control to an electrical firing device.
§ 57.6406
Duration of current flow.
If any part of a blast is connected in parallel and is to be initiated from powerlines or lighting circuits, the time of current flow shall be limited to a maximum of 25 milliseconds. This can be accomplished by incorporating an arcing control device in the blasting circuit or by interrupting the circuit with an explosive device attached to one or both lead lines and initiated by a 25-millisecond delay electric detonator.
§ 57.6407
Circuit testing.
A blasting galvanometer or other instrument designed for testing blasting circuits shall be used to test the following:
(a) In surface operations—
(1) Continuity of each electric detonator in the blasthole prior to stemming and connection to the blasting line;
(2) Resistance of individual series or the resistance of multiple balanced series to be connected in parallel prior to their connection to the blasting line;
(3) Continuity of blasting lines prior to the connection of electric or electronic detonator series; and
(4) Total blasting circuit resistance prior to connection to the power source.
(b) In underground operations—
(1) Continuity of each electric detonator series; and
(2) Continuity of blasting lines prior to the connection of electric or electronic detonators.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]

# Nonelectric Blasting—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6500
Damaged initiating material.
A visual check of the completed circuit shall be made to ensure that the components are properly aligned and connected. Safety fuse, igniter cord, detonating cord, shock or gas tubing, and similar material which is kinked, bent sharply, or damaged shall not be used.
§ 57.6501
Nonelectric initiation systems.
(a) When the nonelectric initiation system uses shock tube—
(1) Connections with other initiation devices shall be secured in a manner which provides for uninterrupted propagation;
(2) Factory-made units shall be used as assembled and shall not be cut except that a single splice is permitted on the lead-in trunkline during dry conditions; and
(3) Connections between blastholes shall not be made until immediately prior to clearing the blast site when surface delay detonators are used.
(b) When the nonelectric initiation system uses detonating cord—
(1) The line of detonating cord extending out of a blasthole shall be cut from the supply spool immediately after the attached explosive is correctly positioned in the hole;
(2) In multiple row blasts, the trunkline layout shall be designed so that the detonation can reach each blasthole from at least two directions;
(3) Connections shall be tight and kept at right angles to the trunkline;
(4) Detonators shall be attached securely to the side of the detonating cord and pointed in the direction in which detonation is to proceed;
(5) Connections between blastholes shall not be made until immediately prior to clearing the blast site when surface delay detonators are used; and
(6) Lead-in lines shall be manually unreeled if connected to the trunklines at the blast site.
(c) When nonelectric initiation systems use gas tube, continuity of the circuit shall be tested prior to blasting.
§ 57.6502
Safety fuse.
(a) The burning rate of each spool of safety fuse to be used shall be measured, posted in locations which will be conspicuous to safety fuse users, and brought to the attention of all persons involved with the blasting operation.
(b) When firing with safety fuse ignited individually using handheld lighters, the safety fuse shall be of lengths which provide at least the minimum burning time for a particular size round, as specified in the following table:
Table E-1—Safety Fuse—Minimum Burning Time
Number of holes in a round
Minimum
burning time
1
2 min.
1
2-5
2 min. 40 sec.
6-10
3 min. 20 sec.
11 to 15
5 min.
1
For example, at least a 36-inch length of 40-second-per-foot safety fuse or at least a 48-inch length of 30-second-per-foot safety fuse would have to be used to allow sufficient time to evacuate the area.
(c) Where flyrock might damage exposed safety fuse, the blast shall be timed so that all safety fuses are burning within the blastholes before any blasthole detonates.
(d) Fuse shall be cut and capped in dry locations.
(e) Blasting caps shall be crimped to fuse only with implements designed for that purpose.
(f) Safety fuse shall be ignited only after the primer and the explosive material are securely in place.
(g) Safety fuse shall be ignited only with devices designed for that purpose. Carbide lights, liquefied petroleum gas torches, and cigarette lighters shall not be used to light safety fuse.
(h) At least two persons shall be present when lighting safety fuse, and no one shall light more than 15 individual fuses. If more than 15 holes per person are to be fired, electric initiation systems, igniter cord and connectors, or other nonelectric initiation systems shall be used.

# Extraneous Electricity—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6600
Loading practices.
If extraneous electricity is suspected in an area where electric detonators are used, loading shall be suspended until tests determine that stray current does not exceed 0.05 amperes through a 1-ohm resister when measured at the location of the electric detonators. If greater levels of extraneous electricity are found, the source shall be determined and no loading shall take place until the condition is corrected.
§ 57.6601
Grounding.
Electric blasting circuits, including powerline sources when used, shall not be grounded.
§ 57.6602
Static electricity dissipation during loading.
When explosive material is loaded pneumatically into a blasthole in a manner that generates a static electricity hazard—
(a) An evaluation of the potential static electricity hazard shall be made and any hazard shall be eliminated before loading begins;
(b) The loading hose shall be of a semiconductive type, have a total of not more than 2 megohms of resistance over its entire length and not less than 1000 ohms of resistance per foot;
(c) Wire-countered hoses shall not be used;
(d) Conductive parts of the loading equipment shall be bonded and grounded and grounds shall not be made to other potential sources of extraneous electricity; and
(e) Plastic tubes shall not be used as hole liners if the hole contains an electric detonator.
§ 57.6603
Air gap.
At least a 15-foot air gap shall be provided between the blasting circuit and the electric power source.
§ 57.6604
Precautions during storms.
During the approach and progress of an electrical storm—
(a) Surface blasting operations shall be suspended and persons withdrawn from the blast area or to a safe location; or
(b) Underground electronic or electrical blasting operations that are capable of being initiated by lightning shall be suspended and all persons withdrawn from the blast area or to a safe location.
[61 FR 36801, July 12, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]
§ 57.6605
Isolation of blasting circuits.
Lead wires and blasting lines shall be isolated and insulated from power conductors, pipelines, and railroad tracks, and shall be protected from sources of stray or static electricity. Blasting circuits shall be protected from any contact between firing lines and overhead powerlines which could result from the force of a blast.

# Equipment/Tools—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6700
Nonsparking tools.
Only nonsparking tools shall be used to open containers of explosive material or to punch holes in explosive cartridges.
§ 57.6701
Tamping and loading pole requirements.
Tamping and loading poles shall be of wood or other nonconductive, nonsparking material. Couplings for poles shall be nonsparking.

# Maintenance—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6800
Storage facilities.
When repair work which could produce a spark or flame is to be performed on a storage facility—
(a) The explosive material shall be moved to another facility, or moved at least 50 feet from the repair activity and monitored; and
(b) The facility shall be cleaned to prevent accidental detonation.
§ 57.6801
Vehicle repair.
Vehicles containing explosive material and oxidizers shall not be taken into a repair garage or shop.
§ 57.6802
Bulk delivery vehicles.
No welding or cutting shall be performed on a bulk delivery vehicle until the vehicle has been washed down and all explosive material has been removed. Before welding or cutting on a hollow shaft, the shaft shall be thoroughly cleaned inside and out and vented with a minimum
1/2
-inch diameter opening to allow for sufficient ventilation.
§ 57.6803
Blasting lines.
Permanent blasting lines shall be properly supported. All blasting lines shall be insulated and kept in good repair.

# General Requirements—Surface and Underground
§ 57.6900
Damaged or deteriorated explosive material.
Damaged or deteriorated explosive material shall be disposed of in a safe manner in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer.
§ 57.6901
Black powder.
(a) Black powder shall be used for blasting only when a desired result cannot be obtained with another type of explosive, such as in quarrying certain types of dimension stone.
(b) Containers of black powder shall be—
(1) Nonsparking;
(2) Kept in a totally enclosed cargo space while being transported by a vehicle;
(3) Securely closed at all times when—
(i) Within 50 feet of any magazine or open flame;
(ii) Within any building in which a fuel-fired or exposed-element electric heater is operating; or
(iii) In an area where electrical or incandescent-particle sparks could result in powder ignition; and
(4) Opened only when the powder is being transferred to a blasthole or another container and only in locations not listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c) Black powder shall be transferred from containers only by pouring.
(d) Spills shall be cleaned up promptly with nonsparking equipment. Contaminated powder shall be put into a container of water and shall be disposed of promptly after the granules have disintegrated, or the spill area shall be flushed promptly with water until the granules have disintegrated completely.
(e) Misfires shall be disposed of by washing the stemming and powder charge from the blasthole, and removing and disposing of the initiator in accordance with the requirement for damaged explosives.
(f) Holes shall not be reloaded for at least 12 hours when the blastholes have failed to break as planned.
§ 57.6902
Excessive temperatures.
(a) Where heat could cause premature detonation, explosive material shall not be loaded into hot areas, such as kilns or sprung holes.
(b) When blasting sulfide ores where hot holes occur that may react with explosive material in blastholes, operators shall—
(1) Measure an appropriate number of blasthole temperatures in order to assess the specific mine conditions prior to the introduction of explosive material;
(2) Limit the time between the completion of loading and the initiation of the blast to no more than 12 hours; and
(3) Take other special precautions to address the specific conditions at the mine to prevent premature detonation.
§ 57.6903
Burning explosive material.
If explosive material is suspected of burning at the blast site, persons shall be evacuated from the endangered area and shall not return for at least one hour after the burning or suspected burning has stopped.
§ 57.6904
Smoking and open flames.
Smoking and use of open flames shall not be permitted within 50 feet of explosive material except when separated by permanent noncombustible barriers. This standard does not apply to devices designed to ignite safety fuse or to heating devices which do not create a fire or explosion hazard.
§ 57.6905
Protection of explosive material.
(a) Explosive material shall be protected from temperatures in excess of 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
(b) Explosive material shall be protected from impact, except for tamping and dropping during loading.

# General Requirements—Underground Only
§ 57.6960
Mixing of explosive material.
(a) The mixing of ingredients to produce explosive material shall not be conducted underground unless prior approval of the MSHA district manager is obtained. In granting or withholding approval, the district manager shall consider the potential hazards created by—
(1) The location of the stored material and the storage practices used;
(2) The transportation and use of the explosive material;
(3) The nature of the explosive material, including its sensitivity;
(4) Any other factor deemed relevant to the safety of miners potentially exposed to the hazards associated with the mixing of the bulk explosive material underground.
(b) Storage facilities for the ingredients to be mixed shall provide drainage away from the facilities for leaks and spills.

# Subpart F—Drilling and Rotary Jet Piercing

# Drilling—Surface Only
§ 57.7002
Equipment defects.
Equipment defects affecting safety shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 57.7003
Drill area inspection.
The drilling area shall be inspected for hazards before starting the drilling operations.
§ 57.7004
Drill mast.
Persons shall not be on a mast while the drill-bit is in operation unless they are provided with a safe platform from which to work and they are required to use safety belts to avoid falling.
§ 57.7005
Augers and drill stems.
Drill crews and others shall stay clear of augers or drill stems that are in motion. Persons shall not pass under or step over a moving stem or auger.
§ 57.7008
Moving the drill.
When a drill is being moved from one drilling area to another, drill steel, tools, and other equipment shall be secured and the mast placed in a safe position.
§ 57.7009
Drill helpers.
If a drill helper assists the drill operator during movement of a drill to a new location, the helper shall be in sight of, or in communication with, the operator at all times.
§ 57.7010
Power failures.
In the event of power failure, drill controls shall be placed in the neutral position until power is restored.
§ 57.7011
Straightening crossed cables.
The drill stem shall be resting on the bottom of the hole or on the platform with the stem secured to the mast before attempts are made to straighten a crossed cable on a reel.
§ 57.7012
Tending drills in operation.
While in operation, drills shall be attended at all times.
§ 57.7013
Covering or guarding drill holes.
Drill holes large enough to constitute a hazard shall be covered or guarded.
§ 57.7018
Hand clearance.
Persons shall not hold the drill steel while collaring holes, or rest their hands on the chuck or centralizer while drilling.

# Drilling—Underground Only
§ 57.7028
Hand clearance.
Persons shall not rest their hands on the chuck or centralizer while drilling.
§ 57.7032
Anchoring.
Columns and the drills mounted on them shall be anchored firmly before and during drilling.

# Drilling—Surface and Underground
§ 57.7050
Tool and drill steel racks.
Receptacles or racks shall be provided for drill steel and tools stored or carried on drills.
§ 57.7051
Loose objects on the mast or drill platform.
To prevent injury to personnel, tools and other objects shall not be left loose on the mast or drill platform.
§ 57.7052
Drilling positions.
Persons shall not drill from—
(a) Positions which hinder their access to the control levers;
(b) Insecure footing or insecure staging; or
(c) Atop equipment not suitable for drilling.
§ 57.7053
Moving hand-held drills.
Before hand-held drills are moved from one working area to another, air shall be turned off and bled from the hose.
§ 57.7054
Starting or moving drill equipment.
Drill operators shall not start or move drilling equipment unless all miners are in the clear.
§ 57.7055
Intersecting holes.
Holes shall not be drilled where there is a danger of intersecting a misfired hole or a hole containing explosives, blasting agents, or detonators.
[56 FR 46517, Sept. 12, 1991; 56 FR 52193, Oct. 18, 1991]
§ 57.7056
Collaring in bootlegs.
Holes shall not be collared in bootlegs.
[56 FR 46517, Sept. 12, 1991]

# Rotary Jet Piercing—Surface Only
§ 57.7801
Jet drills.
Jet piercing drills shall be provided with:
(a) A system to pressurize the equipment operator's cab, when a cab is provided; and
(b) A protective cover over the oxygen flow indicator.
§ 57.7802
Oxygen hose lines.
Safety chains or other suitable locking devices shall be provided across connections to and between high pressure oxygen hose lines of 1-inch inside diameter or larger.
§ 57.7803
Lighting the burner.
A suitable means of protection shall be provided for the employee when lighting the burner.
§ 57.7804
Refueling.
When rotary jet piercing equipment requires refueling at locations other than fueling stations, a system for fueling without spillage shall be provided.
§ 57.7805
Smoking and open flames.
Persons shall not smoke and open flames shall not be used in the vicinity of the oxygen storage and supply lines. Signs warning against smoking and open flames shall be posted in these areas.
§ 57.7806
Oxygen intake coupling.
The oxygen intake coupling on jet piercing drills shall be constructed so that only the oxygen hose can be coupled to it.
§ 57.7807
Flushing the combustion chamber.
The combustion chamber of a jet drill stem which has been sitting
unoperated in a drill hole shall be flushed with a suitable solvent after the stem is pulled up.

# Subpart G—Ventilation

# Surface and Underground
§ 57.8518
Main and booster fans.
(a) All mine main and booster fans installed and used to ventilate the active workings of the mine shall be operated continuously while persons are underground in the active workings. However, this provision is not applicable during scheduled production-cycle shutdowns or planned or scheduled fan maintenance or fan adjustments where air quality is maintained in compliance with the applicable standards of subpart D of this part and all persons underground in the affected areas are advised in advance of such scheduled or planned fan shutdowns, maintenance, or adjustments.
(b) In the event of main or booster fan failure due to a malfunction, accident, power failure, or other such unplanned or unscheduled event:
(1) The air quality in the affected active workings shall be tested at least within 2-hours of the discovery of the fan failure, and at least every 4-hours thereafter by a competent person for compliance with the requirements of the applicable standards of subpart D of this part until normal ventilation is restored, or
(2) All persons, except those working on the fan, shall be withdrawn, the ventilation shall be restored to normal and the air quality in the affected active workings shall be tested by a competent person to assure that the air quality meets the requirements of the standards in subpart D of this part, before any other persons are permitted to enter the affected active workings.
§ 57.8519
Underground main fan controls.
All underground main fans shall have controls placed at a suitable protected location remote from the fan and preferably on the surface.

# Underground Only
§ 57.8520
Ventilation plan.
A plan of the mine ventilation system shall be set out by the operator in written form. Revisions of the system shall be noted and updated at least annually. The ventilation plan or revisions thereto shall be submitted to the District Manager for review and comments upon his written request. The plan shall, where applicable, contain the following:
(a) The mine name.
(b) The current mine map or schematic or series of mine maps or schematics of an appropriate scale, not greater than five hundred feet to the inch, showing:
(1) Direction and quantity of principal air flows;
(2) Locations of seals used to isolate abandoned workings;
(3) Locations of areas withdrawn from the ventilation system;
(4) Locations of all main, booster and auxiliary fans not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard.
(5) Locations of air regulators and stoppings and ventilation doors not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard;
(6) Locations of overcasts, undercasts and other airway crossover devices not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard;
(7) Locations of known oil or gas wells;
(8) Locations of known underground mine openings adjacent to the mine;
(9) Locations of permanent underground shops, diesel fuel storage depots, oil fuel storage depots, hoist rooms, compressors, battery charging stations and explosive storage facilities. Permanent facilities are those intended to exist for one year or more; and
(10) Significant changes in the ventilation system projected for one year.
(c) Mine fan data for all active main and booster fans including manufacturer's name, type, size, fan speed, blade setting, approximate pressure at present operating point, and motor brake horsepower rating.
(d) Diagrams, descriptions or sketches showing how ventilation is accomplished in each typical type of
working place including the approximate quantity of air provided, and typical size and type of auxiliary fans used.
(e) The number and type of internal combustion engine units used underground, including make and model of unit, type of engine, make and model of engine, brake horsepower rating of engine, and approval number.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.8525
Main fan maintenance.
Main fans shall be maintained according to either the manufacturer's recommendations or a written periodic schedule adopted by the operator which shall be available at the operation on request of the Secretary or his authorized representative.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.8527
Oxygen-deficiency testing.
Flame safety lamps or other suitable devices shall be used to test for acute oxygen deficiency.
§ 57.8528
Unventilated areas.
Unventilated areas shall be sealed, or barricaded and posted against entry.
§ 57.8529
Auxiliary fan systems.
When auxiliary fan systems are used, such systems shall minimize recirculation and be maintained to provide ventilation air that effectively sweeps the working places.
§ 57.8531
Construction and maintenance of ventilation doors.
Ventilation doors shall be—
(a) Substantially constructed;
(b) Covered with fire-retardant material, if constructed of wood;
(c) Maintained in good condition;
(d) Self-closing, if manually operated; and
(e) Equipped with audible or visual warning devices, if mechanically operated.
§ 57.8532
Opening and closing ventilation doors.
When ventilation control doors are opened as a part of the normal mining cycle, they shall be closed as soon as possible to re-establish normal ventilation to working places.
§ 57.8534
Shutdown or failure of auxiliary fans.
(a) Auxiliary fans installed and used to ventilate the active workings of the mine shall be operated continuously while persons are underground in the active workings,
except
for scheduled production-cycle shutdowns or planned or scheduled fan maintenance or fan adjustments where air quality is maintained in compliance with the applicable standards of subpart D of this part, and all persons underground in the affected areas are advised in advance of such scheduled or planned fan shutdowns, maintenance, or adjustments.
(b) In the event of auxiliary fan failure due to malfunction, accident, power failure, or other such unplanned or unscheduled event:
(1) The air quality in the affected active workings shall be tested at least within 2 hours of the discovery of the fan failure, and at least every 4 hours thereafter by a competent person for compliance with the requirements of the applicable standards of subpart D of this part until normal ventilation is restored, or
(2) All persons, except those working on the fan, shall be withdrawn, the ventilation shall be restored to normal and the air quality in the affected active workings shall be tested by a competent person to assure that the air quality meets the requirements of the standards in subpart D of this part, before any other persons are permitted to enter the affected active workings.
§ 57.8535
Seals.
Seals shall be provided with a means for checking the quality of air behind the seal and a means to prevent a water head from developing unless the seal is designed to impound water.

# Subpart H—Loading, Hauling, and Dumping

# Source:
53 FR 32526, Aug. 25, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Traffic Safety
§ 57.9100
Traffic control.
To provide for the safe movement of self-propelled mobile equipment—
(a) Rules governing speed, right-of-way, direction of movement, and the use of headlights to assure appropriate visibility, shall be established and followed at each mine; and
(b) Signs or signals that warn of hazardous conditions shall be placed at appropriate locations at each mine.
§ 57.9101
Operating speeds and control of equipment.
Operators of self-propelled mobile equipment shall maintain control of the equipment while it is in motion. Operating speeds shall be consistent with conditions of roadways, tracks, grades, clearance, visibility, and traffic, and the type of equipment used.
§ 57.9102
Movement of independently operating rail equipment.
Movement of two or more pieces of rail equipment operating independently on the same track shall be controlled for safe operation.
§ 57.9103
Clearance on adjacent tracks.
Railcars shall not be left on side tracks unless clearance is provided for traffic on adjacent tracks.
§ 57.9104
Railroad crossings.
Designated railroad crossings shall be posted with warning signs or signals, or shall be guarded when trains are passing. These crossings shall also be planked or filled between the rails.
§ 57.9160
Train movement during shift changes.
During shift changes, the movement of underground trains carrying rock or material shall be limited to areas where the trains do not present a hazard to persons changing shifts.

# Transportation of Persons and Materials
§ 57.9200
Transporting persons.
Persons shall not be transported—
(a) In or on dippers, forks, clamshells, or buckets except shaft buckets during shaft-sinking operations or during inspection, maintenance and repair of shafts.
(b) In beds of mobile equipment or railcars, unless—
(1) Provisions are made for secure travel, and
(2) Means are taken to prevent accidental unloading if the equipment is provided with unloading devices;
(c) On top of loads in mobile equipment;
(d) Outside cabs, equipment operators' stations, and beds of mobile equipment, except when necessary for maintenance, testing, or training purposes, and provisions are made for secure travel. This provision does not apply to rail equipment.
(e) Between cars of trains, on the leading end of trains, on the leading end of a single railcar, or in other locations on trains that expose persons to hazards from train movement.
(1) This paragraph does not apply to car droppers if they are secured with safety belts and lines which prevent them from falling off the work platform.
(2) Brakemen and trainmen are prohibited from riding between cars of moving trains but may ride on the leading end of trains or other locations when necessary to perform their duties;
(f) To and from work areas in overcrowded mobile equipment;
(g) In mobile equipment with materials or equipment unless the items are secured or are small and can be carried safely by hand without creating a hazard to persons; or
(h) On conveyors unless the conveyors are designed to provide for their safe transportation.
§ 57.9201
Loading, hauling, and unloading of equipment or supplies.
Equipment and supplies shall be loaded, transported, and unloaded in a manner which does not create a hazard to persons from falling or shifting equipment or supplies.
§ 57.9202
Loading and hauling large rocks.
Large rocks shall be broken before loading if they could endanger persons
or affect the stability of mobile equipment. Mobile equipment used for haulage of mined material shall be loaded to minimize spillage where a hazard to persons could be created.
§ 57.9260
Supplies, materials, and tools on mantrips.
Supplies, materials, and tools, other than small items that can be carried by hand, shall not be transported underground with persons in mantrips. Mantrips shall be operated independently of ore or supply trips.
§ 57.9261
Transporting tools and materials on locomotives.
Tools or materials shall not be carried on top of locomotives underground except for secured rerailing devices located in a manner which does not create a hazard to persons.

# Safety Devices, Provisions, and Procedures for Roadways, Railroads, and Loading and Dumping Sites
§ 57.9300
Berms or guardrails.
(a) Berms or guardrails shall be provided and maintained on the banks of roadways where a drop-off exists of sufficient grade or depth to cause a vehicle to overturn or endanger persons in equipment.
(b) Berms or guardrails shall be at least mid-axle height of the largest self-propelled mobile equipment which usually travels the roadway.
(c) Berms may have openings to the extent necessary for roadway drainage.
(d) Where elevated roadways are infrequently traveled and used only by service or maintenance vehicles, berms or guardrails are not required when all of the following are met:
(1) Locked gates are installed at the entrance points to the roadway.
(2) Signs are posted warning that the roadway is not bermed.
(3) Delineators are installed along the perimeter of the elevated roadway so that, for both directions of travel, the reflective surfaces of at least three delineators along each elevated shoulder are always visible to the driver and spaced at intervals sufficient to indicate the edges and attitude of the roadway.
(4) A maximum speed limit is posted and observed for the elevated unbermed portions of the roadway. Factors to consider when establishing the maximum speed limit shall include the width, slope and alignment of the road, the type of equipment using the road, the road material, and any hazardous conditions which may exist.
(5) Road surface traction is not impaired by weather conditions, such as sleet and snow, unless corrective measures, such as the use of tire chains, plowing, or sanding, are taken to improve traction.
(e) This standard is not applicable to rail beds.
[53 FR 32526, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 37218, Sept. 7, 1990]
§ 57.9301
Dump site restraints.
Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or similar impeding devices shall be provided at dumping locations where there is a hazard of overtravel or overturning.
§ 57.9302
Protection against moving or runaway railroad equipment.
Stopblocks, derail devices, or other devices that protect against moving or runaway rail equipment shall be installed wherever necessary to protect persons.
§ 57.9303
Construction of ramps and dumping facilities.
Ramps and dumping facilities shall be designed and constructed of materials capable of supporting the loads to which they will be subjected. The ramps and dumping facilities shall provide width, clearance, and headroom to safely accommodate the mobile equipment using the facilities.
§ 57.9304
Unstable ground.
(a) Dumping locations shall be visually inspected prior to work commencing and as ground conditions warrant.
(b) Where there is evidence that the ground at a dumping location may fail to support the mobile equipment, loads shall be dumped a safe distance back from the edge of the unstable area of the bank.
§ 57.9305
Truck spotters.
(a) If truck spotters are used, they shall be in the clear while trucks are backing into dumping position or dumping.
(b) Spotters shall use signal lights to direct trucks where visibility is limited.
(c) When a truck operator cannot clearly recognize the spotter's signals, the truck shall be stopped.
§ 57.9306
Warning devices for restricted clearances.
Where restricted clearance creates a hazard to persons on mobile equipment, warning devices shall be installed in advance of the restricted area and the restricted area shall be conspicuously marked.
§ 57.9307
Design, installation, and maintenance of railroads.
Roadbeds and all elements of the railroad tracks shall be designed, installed, and maintained to provide safe operation consistent with the speed and type of haulage used.
§ 57.9308
Switch throws.
Switch throws shall be installed to provide clearance to protect switchmen from contact with moving trains.
§ 57.9309
Chute design.
Chute-loading installations shall be designed to provide a safe location for persons pulling chutes.
§ 57.9310
Chute hazards.
(a) Prior to chute-pulling, persons who could be affected by the draw or otherwise exposed to danger shall be warned and given time to clear the hazardous area.
(b) Persons attempting to free chute hangups shall be experienced and familiar with the task, know the hazards involved, and use the proper tools to free material.
(c) When broken rock or material is dumped into an empty chute, the chute shall be equipped with a guard or all persons shall be isolated from the hazard of flying rock or material.
§ 57.9311
Anchoring stationary sizing devices.
Grizzlies and other stationary sizing devices shall be securely anchored.
§ 57.9312
Working around drawholes.
Unless platforms or safety lines are used, persons shall not position themselves over drawholes if there is danger that broken rock or material may be withdrawn or bridged.
§ 57.9313
Roadway maintenance.
Water, debris, or spilled material on roadways which creates hazards to the operation of mobile equipment shall be removed.
§ 57.9314
Trimming stockpile and muckpile faces.
Stockpile and muckpile faces shall be trimmed to prevent hazards to persons.
§ 57.9315
Dust control.
Dust shall be controlled at muck piles, material transfer points, crushers, and on haulage roads where hazards to persons would be created as a result of impaired visibility.
§ 57.9316
Notifying the equipment operator.
When an operator of self-propelled mobile equipment is present, persons shall notify the equipment operator before getting on or off that equipment.
§ 57.9317
Suspended loads.
Persons shall not work or pass under the buckets or booms of loaders in operation.
§ 57.9318
Getting on or off moving equipment.
Persons shall not get on or off moving mobile equipment. This provision does not apply to trainmen, brakemen, and car droppers who are required to get on or off slowly moving trains in the performance of their work duties.
§ 57.9319
Going over, under, or between railcars.
Persons shall not go over, under, or between railcars unless—
(a) The train is stopped; and
(b) The train operator, when present, is notified and the notice acknowledged.
§ 57.9330
Clearance for surface equipment.
Continuous clearance of at least 30 inches from the farthest projection of moving railroad equipment shall be provided on at least one side of the tracks at all locations where possible or the area shall be marked conspicuously.
§ 57.9360
Shelter holes.
(a) Shelter holes shall be—
(1) Provided at intervals adequate to assure the safety of persons along underground haulageways where continuous clearance of at least 30 inches cannot be maintained from the farthest projection of moving equipment on at least one side of the haulageway; and
(2) At least four feet wide, marked conspicuously, and provide a minimum 40-inch clearance from the farthest projection of moving equipment.
(b) Shelter holes shall not be used for storage unless a 40-inch clearance is maintained.
§ 57.9361
Drawholes.
To prevent hazards to persons underground, collars of open drawholes shall be free of muck or materials except during transfer of the muck or material through the drawhole.
§ 57.9362
Protection of signalmen.
Signalmen used during slushing operations underground shall be located away from possible contact with cables, sheaves, and slusher buckets.

# Subpart I—Aerial Tramways
§ 57.10001
Filling buckets.
Buckets shall not be overloaded, and feed shall be regulated to prevent spillage.
§ 57.10002
Inspection and maintenance.
Inspection and maintenance of carriers (including loading and unloading mechanisms), ropes and supports, and brakes shall be performed by competent persons according to the recommendations of the manufacturer.
§ 57.10003
Correction of defects.
Any hazardous defects shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 57.10004
Brakes.
Positive-action-type brakes and devices which apply the brakes automatically in the event of a power failure shall be provided on aerial tramways.
§ 57.10005
Track cable connections.
Track cable connections shall not obstruct the passage of carriage wheels.
§ 57.10006
Tower guards.
Towers shall be suitably protected from swaying buckets.
§ 57.10007
Falling object protection.
Guard nets or other suitable protection shall be provided where tramways pass over roadways, walkways, or buildings.
§ 57.10008
Riding tramways.
Persons other than maintenance persons shall not ride aerial tramways unless the following features are provided.
(a) Two independent brakes, each capable of holding the maximum load;
(b) Direct communication between terminals;
(c) Power drives with emergency power available in case of primary power failure; and
(d) Buckets equipped with positive locks to prevent accidental tripping or dumping.
§ 57.10009
Riding loaded buckets.
Persons shall not ride loaded buckets.
§ 57.10010
Starting precautions.
Where possible, aerial tramways shall not be started until the operator has ascertained that everyone is in the clear.

# Subpart J—Travelways and Escapeways

# Travelways—Surface and Underground
§ 57.11001
Safe access.
Safe means of access shall be provided and maintained to all working places.
§ 57.11002
Handrails and toeboards.
Crossovers, elevated walkways, elevated ramps, and stairways shall be of substantial construction, provided with handrails, and maintained in good condition. Where necessary, toeboards shall be provided.
§ 57.11003
Construction and maintenance of ladders.
Ladders shall be of substantial construction and maintained in good condition.
§ 57.11004
Portable rigid ladders.
Portable rigid ladders shall be provided with suitable bases and placed securely when used.
§ 57.11005
Fixed ladder anchorage and toe clearance.
Fixed ladders shall be anchored securely and installed to provide at least 3 inches of toe clearance.
§ 57.11006
Fixed ladder landings.
Fixed ladders shall project at least 3 feet above landings, or substantial handholds shall be provided above the landings.
§ 57.11007
Wooden components of ladders.
Wooden components of ladders shall not be painted except with a transparent finish.
§ 57.11008
Restricted clearance.
Where restricted clearance creates a hazard to persons, the restricted clearance shall be conspicuously marked.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988]
§ 57.11009
Walkways along conveyors.
Walkways with outboard railings shall be provided wherever persons are required to walk alongside elevated conveyor belts. Inclined railed walkways shall be nonskid or provided with cleats.
§ 57.11010
Stairstep clearance.
Vertical clearance above stair steps shall be a minimum of seven feet, or suitable warning signs or similar devices shall be provided to indicate an impaired clearance.
§ 57.11011
Use of ladders.
Persons using ladders shall face the ladders and have both hands free for climbing and descending.
§ 57.11012
Protection for openings around travelways.
Openings above, below, or near travelways through which persons or materials may fall shall be protected by railings, barriers, or covers. Where it is impractical to install such protective devices, adequate warning signals shall be installed.
§ 57.11013
Conveyor crossovers.
Crossovers shall be provided where it is necessary to cross conveyors.
§ 57.11014
Crossing moving conveyors.
Moving conveyors shall be crossed only at designated crossover points.
§ 57.11016
Snow and ice on walkways and travelways.
Regularly used walkways and travelways shall be sanded, salted, or cleared of snow and ice as soon as practicable.
§ 57.11017
Inclined fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders shall not incline backwards.

# Travelways—Surface Only
§ 57.11025
Railed landings, backguards, and other protection for fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders, except on mobile equipment, shall be offset and have substantial railed landings at least every 30 feet unless backguards or equivalent protection such as safety belts and safety lines, are provided.
§ 57.11026
Protection for inclined fixed ladders.
Fixed ladders 70 degrees to 90 degrees from the horizontal and 30 feet or more in length shall have backguards, cages or equivalent protection, starting at a point not more than seven feet from the bottom of the ladders.
§ 57.11027
Scaffolds and working platforms.
Scaffolds and working platforms shall be of substantial construction and provided with handrails and maintained in good condition. Floorboards shall be laid properly and the scaffolds and working platform shall not be overloaded. Working platforms shall be provided with toeboards when necessary.

# Travelways—Underground Only
§ 57.11036
Ladderway trap doors and guards.
Trap doors or adequate guarding shall be provided in ladderways at each level. Doors shall be kept operable.
§ 57.11037
Ladderway openings.
Ladderways constructed after November 15, 1979, shall have a minimum unobstructed cross-sectional opening of 24 inches by 24 inches measured from the face of the ladder.
§ 57.11038
Entering a manway.
Before entering a manway where persons may be working or traveling, a warning shall be given by the person entering the manway and acknowledged by any person present in the manway.
§ 57.11040
Inclined travelways.
Travelways steeper than 35 degrees from the horizontal shall be provided with ladders or stairways.
§ 57.11041
Landings for inclined ladderways.
Fixed ladders with an inclination of more than 70 degrees from the horizontal shall be offset with substantial landings at least every 30 feet or have landing gates at least every 30 feet.

# Escapeways—Underground Only
§ 57.11050
Escapeways and refuges.
(a) Every mine shall have two or more separate, properly maintained escapeways to the surface from the lowest levels which are so positioned that damage to one shall not lessen the effectiveness of the others. A method of refuge shall be provided while a second opening to the surface is being developed. A second escapeway is recommended, but not required, during the exploration or development of an ore body.
(b) In addition to separate escapeways, a method of refuge shall be provided for every employee who cannot reach the surface from his working place through at least two separate escapeways within a time limit of one hour when using the normal exit method. These refuges must be positioned so that the employee can reach one of them within 30 minutes from the time he leaves his workplace.
§ 57.11051
Escape routes.
Escape routes shall be—
(a) Inspected at regular intervals and maintained in safe, travelable condition; and
(b) Marked with conspicuous and easily read direction signs that clearly indicate the ways of escape.
§ 57.11052
Refuge areas.
Refuge areas shall be—
(a) Of fire-resistant construction, preferably in untimbered areas of the mine;
(b) Large enough to accommodate readily the normal number of persons in the particular area of the mine;
(c) Constructed so they can be made gastight; and
(d) Provided with compressed air lines, waterlines, suitable handtools, and stopping materials.
§ 57.11053
Escape and evacuation plans.
A specific escape and evacuation plan and revisions thereof suitable to the conditions and mining system of the mine and showing assigned responsibilities of all key personnel in the event of an emergency shall be developed by the operator and set out in written
form. Within 45 calendar days after promulgation of this standard a copy of the plan and revisions thereof shall be available to the Secretary or his authorized representative. Also, copies of the plan and revisions thereof shall be posted at locations convenient to all persons on the surface and underground. Such a plan shall be updated as necessary and shall be reviewed jointly by the operator and the Secretary or his authorized representative at least once every six months from the date of the last review. The plan shall include:
(a) Mine maps or diagrams showing directions of principal air flow, location of escape routes and locations of existing telephones, primary fans, primary fan controls, fire doors, ventilation doors, and refuge chambers. Appropriate portions of such maps or diagrams shall be posted at all shaft stations and in underground shops, lunchrooms, and elsewhere in working areas where persons congregate;
(b) Procedures to show how the miners will be notified of emergency;
(c) An escape plan for each working area in the mine to include instructions showing how each working area should be evacuated. Each such plan shall be posted at appropriate shaft stations and elsewhere in working areas where persons congregate;
(d) A fire fighting plan;
(e) Surface procedure to follow in an emergency, including the notification of proper authorities, preparing rescue equipment, and other equipment which may be used in rescue and recovery operations; and
(f) A statement of the availability of emergency communication and transportation facilities, emergency power and ventilation and location of rescue personnel and equipment.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.11054
Communication with refuge chambers.
Telephone or other voice communication shall be provided between the surface and refuge chambers and such systems shall be independent of the mine power supply.
§ 57.11055
Inclined escapeways.
Any portion of a designated escapeway which is inclined more than 30 degrees from the horizontal and that is more than 300 feet in vertical extent shall be provided with an emergency hoisting facility.
§ 57.11056
Emergency hoists.
The procedure for inspection, testing and maintenance required by standard 57.19120 shall be utilized at least every 30 days for hoists designated as emergency hoists in any evacuation plan.
§ 57.11058
Check-in, check-out system.
Each operator of an underground mine shall establish a check-in and check-out system which shall provide an accurate record of persons in the mine. These records shall be kept on the surface in a place chosen to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazards. Every person underground shall carry a positive means of being identified.
§ 57.11059
Respirable atmosphere for hoist operators underground.
For the protection of operators of hoists located underground which are part of the mine escape and evacuation plan required under standard 57.11053, the hoist operator shall be provided with a respirable atmosphere completely independent of the mine atmosphere. This independent ventilation system shall convert, without contamination, to an approved and properly maintained 2-hour self-contained breathing apparatus to provide a safe means of escape for the hoist operator after the hoisting duties have been completed as prescribed in the mine escape and evacuation plan for that hoist. The hoist operator's independent ventilation system shall be provided by one of the following methods:
(a) A suitable enclosure equipped with a positive pressure ventilation system which may be operated continuously or be capable of immediate activation from within the enclosure during an emergency evacuation. Air for the enclosure's ventilation system shall be provided in one of the following ways:
(1) Air coursed from the surface through a borehole into the hoist enclosure directly or through a metal pipeline from such borehole; or
(2) Air coursed from the surface through metal duct work into the hoist enclosure, although this duct work shall not be located in timber-supported active workings; or
(3) Air supplied by air compressors located on the surface and coursed through metal pipe into the hoist enclosure.
A back-up system shall be provided for a hoist enclosure ventilation system provided by either of the methods set forth in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section. This back-up system shall consist of compressed air stored in containers connected to the enclosure. This back-up system shall provide and maintain a respirable atmosphere in the enclosure for a period of time equal to at least twice the time necessary to complete the evacuation of all persons designated to use that hoist as prescribed in the mine escape and evacuation plan required under standard 57.11053; or
(b) An approved and properly maintained self-contained breathing apparatus system which shall consist of a mask connected to compressed air stored in containers adjacent to the hoist controls. The self-contained breathing system shall provide a minimum of 24 hours of respirable atmosphere to the hoist operator. In addition, the self-contained breathing system shall be capable of a quick connect with the approved 2-hour self-contained breathing apparatus above.

# Subpart K—Electricity

# Surface and Underground
§ 57.12001
Circuit overload protection.
Circuits shall be protected against excessive overloads by fuses or circuit breakers of the correct type and capacity.
§ 57.12002
Controls and switches.
Electric equipment and circuits shall be provided with switches or other controls. Such switches or controls shall be of approved design and construction and shall be properly installed.
§ 57.12003
Trailing cable overload protection.
Individual overload protection or short circuit protection shall be provided for the trailing cables of mobile equipment.
§ 57.12004
Electrical conductors.
Electrical conductors shall be of a sufficient size and current-carrying capacity to ensure that a rise in temperature resulting from normal operations will not damage the insulating materials. Electrical conductors exposed to mechanical damage shall be protected.
§ 57.12005
Protection of power conductors from mobile equipment.
Mobile equipment shall not run over power conductors, nor shall loads be dragged over power conductors, unless the conductors are properly bridged or protected.
§ 57.12006
Distribution boxes.
Distribution boxes shall be provided with a disconnecting device for each branch circuit. Such disconnecting devices shall be equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation when such a device is open and that the circuit is deenergized, and the distribution box shall be labeled to show which circuit each device controls.
§ 57.12007
Junction box connection procedures.
Trailing cable and power-cable connections to junction boxes shall not be made or broken under load.
§ 57.12008
Insulation and fittings for power wires and cables.
Power wires and cables shall be insulated adequately where they pass into or out of electrical compartments. Cables shall enter metal frames of motors, splice boxes, and electrical compartments only through proper fittings. When insulated wires, other than cables, pass through metal frames, the holes shall be substantially bushed with insulated bushings.
§ 57.12010
Isolation or insulation of communication conductors.
Telephone and low-potential signal wire shall be protected, by isolation or
suitable insulation, or both, from contacting energized power conductors or any other power source.
§ 57.12011
High-potential electrical conductors.
High-potential electrical conductors shall be covered, insulated, or placed to prevent contact with low potential conductors.
§ 57.12012
Bare signal wires.
The potential on bare signal wires accessible to contact by persons shall not exceed 48 volts.
§ 57.12013
Splices and repairs of power cables.
Permanent splices and repairs made in power cables, including the ground conductor where provided, shall be—
(a) Mechanically strong with electrical conductivity as near as possible to that of the original;
(b) Insulated to a degree at least equal to that of the original, and sealed to exclude moisture; and,
(c) Provided with damage protection as near as possible to that of the original, including good bonding to the outer jacket.
§ 57.12014
Handling energized power cables.
Power cables energized to potentials in excess of 150 volts, phase-to-ground, shall not be moved with equipment unless sleds or slings, insulated from such equipment, are used. When such energized cables are moved manually, insulated hooks, tongs, ropes, or slings shall be used unless suitable protection for persons is provided by other means. This does not prohibit pulling or dragging of cable by the equipment it powers when the cable is physically attached to the equipment by suitable mechanical devices, and the cable is insulated from the equipment in conformance with other standards in this part.
§ 57.12016
Work on electrically-powered equipment.
Electrically powered equipment shall be deenergized before mechanical work is done on such equipment. Power switches shall be locked out or other measures taken which shall prevent the equipment from being energized without the knowledge of the individuals working on it. Suitable warning notices shall be posted at the power switch and signed by the individuals who are to do the work. Such locks or preventive devices shall be removed only by the persons who installed them or by authorized personnel.
§ 57.12017
Work on power circuits.
Power circuits shall be deenergized before work is done on such circuits unless hot-line tools are used. Suitable warning signs shall be posted by the individuals who are to do the work. Switches shall be locked out or other measures taken which shall prevent the power circuits from being energized without the knowledge of the individuals working on them. Such locks, signs, or preventive devices shall be removed only by the person who installed them or by authorized personnel.
§ 57.12018
Identification of power switches.
Principal power switches shall be labeled to show which units they control, unless identification can be made readily by location.
§ 57.12019
Access to stationary electrical equipment or switchgear.
Where access is necessary, suitable clearance shall be provided at stationary electrical equipment or switchgear.
§ 57.12020
Protection of persons at switchgear.
Dry wooden platforms, insulating mats, or other electrically-nonconductive material shall be kept in place at all switchboards and power-control switches where shock hazards exist. However, metal plates on which a person normally would stand and which are kept at the same potential as the grounded, metal, non-current-carrying parts of the power switches to be operated may be used.
§ 57.12021
Danger signs.
Suitable danger signs shall be posted at all major electrical installations.
§ 57.12022
Authorized persons at major electrical installations.
Areas containing major electrical installations shall be entered only by authorized persons.
§ 57.12023
Guarding electrical connections and resistor grids.
Electrical connections and resistor grids that are difficult or impractical to insulate shall be guarded, unless protection is provided by location.
§ 57.12025
Grounding circuit enclosures.
All metal enclosing or encasing electrical circuits shall be grounded or provided with equivalent protection. This requirement does not apply to battery-operated equipment.
§ 57.12026
Grounding transformer and switchgear enclosures.
Metal fencing and metal buildings enclosing transformers and switchgear shall be grounded.
§ 57.12027
Grounding mobile equipment.
Frame grounding or equivalent protection shall be provided for mobile equipment powered through trailing cables.
§ 57.12028
Testing grounding systems.
Continuity and resistance of grounding systems shall be tested immediately after installation, repair, and modification; and annually thereafter. A record of the resistance measured during the most recent test shall be made available on a request by the Secretary or his duly authorized representative.
§ 57.12030
Correction of dangerous conditions.
When a potentially dangerous condition is found it shall be corrected before equipment or wiring is energized.
§ 57.12032
Inspection and cover plates.
Inspection and cover plates on electrical equipment and junction boxes shall be kept in place at all times except during testing or repairs.
§ 57.12033
Hand-held electric tools.
Hand-held electric tools shall not be operated at high potential voltages.
§ 57.12034
Guarding around lights.
Portable extension lights, and other lights that by their location present a shock or burn hazard, shall be guarded.
§ 57.12035
Weatherproof lamp sockets.
Lamp sockets shall be of a weatherproof type where they are exposed to weather or wet conditions that may interfere with illumination or create a shock hazard.
§ 57.12036
Fuse removal or replacement.
Fuses shall not be removed or replaced by hand in an energized circuit, and they shall not otherwise be removed or replaced in an energized circuit unless equipment and techniques especially designed to prevent electrical shock are provided and used for such purpose.
§ 57.12037
Fuses in high-potential circuits.
Fuse tongs or hotline tools, shall be used when fuses are removed or replaced in high-potential circuits.
§ 57.12038
Attachment of trailing cables.
Trailing cables shall be attached to machines in a suitable manner to protect the cable from damage and to prevent strain on the electrical connections.
§ 57.12039
Protection of surplus trailing cables.
Surplus trailing cables to shovels, cranes and similar equipment shall be—
(a) Stored in cable boats;
(b) Stored on reels mounted on the equipment; or
(c) Otherwise protected from mechanical damage.
§ 57.12040
Installation of operating controls.
Operating controls shall be installed so that they can be operated without danger of contact with energized conductors.
§ 57.12041
Design of switches and starting boxes.
Switches and starting boxes shall be of safe design and capacity.
§ 57.12042
Track bonding.
Both rails shall be bonded or welded at every joint and rails shall be crossbonded at least every 200 feet if the track serves as the return trolley circuit. When rails are moved, replaced, or broken bonds are discovered, they shall be rebonded within three working shifts.
§ 57.12045
Overhead powerlines.
Overhead high-potential powerlines shall be installed as specified by the National Electrical Code.
§ 57.12047
Guy wires.
Guy wires of poles supporting high-voltage transmission lines shall meet the requirements for grounding or insulator protection of the National Electrical Safety Code, part 2, entitled “Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electric Supply and Communication Lines” (also referred to as National Bureau of Standards Handbook 81, Nov. 1, 1961), and Supplement 2 thereof issued March 1968, which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. These publications and documents may be obtained from the National Institute of Science and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 3460, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-3460. Telephone: 301-975-6478 (not a toll free number);
http://ts.nist.gov/nvl;
or from the Government Printing Office, Information Dissemination (Superintendent of Documents), P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954; Telephone: 866-512-1800 (toll free) or 202-512-1800;
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
, or may be examined in any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
[53 FR 32526, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 57.12048
Communication conductors on power poles.
Telegraph, telephone, or signal wires shall not be installed on the same crossarm with power conductors. When carried on poles supporting powerlines, they shall be installed as specified by the National Electrical Code.
§ 57.12050
Installation of trolley wires.
Trolley wires shall be installed at least seven feet above rails where height permits, and aligned and supported to suitably control sway and sag.
§ 57.12053
Circuits powered from trolley wires.
Ground wires for lighting circuits powered from trolley wires shall be connected securely to the ground return circuit.

# Surface Only
§ 57.12065
Short circuit and lightning protection.
Powerlines, including trolley wires, and telephone circuits shall be protected against short circuits and lightning.
§ 57.12066
Guarding trolley wires and bare powerlines.
Where metallic tools or equipment can come in contact with trolley wires or bare powerlines, the lines shall be guarded or deenergized.
§ 57.12067
Installation of transformers.
Transformers shall be totally enclosed, or shall be placed at least 8 feet above the ground, or installed in a transformer house, or surrounded by a substantial fence at least 6 feet high and at least 3 feet from any energized parts, casings, or wiring.
§ 57.12068
Locking transformer enclosures.
Transformer enclosures shall be kept locked against unauthorized entry.
§ 57.12069
Lightning protection for telephone wires and ungrounded conductors.
Each ungrounded conductor or telephone wire that leads underground and is directly exposed to lightning shall be equipped with suitable lightning arrestors of approved type within 100 feet of the point where the circuit enters the
mine. Lightning arrestors shall be connected to a low resistance grounding medium on the surface and shall be separated from neutral grounds by a distance of not less than 25 feet.
§ 57.12071
Movement or operation of equipment near high-voltage powerlines.
When equipment must be moved or operated near energized high-voltage powerlines (other than trolley lines) and the clearance is less than 10 feet, the lines shall be deenergized or other precautionary measures shall be taken.

# Underground Only
§ 57.12080
Bare conductor guards.
Trolley wires and bare power conductors shall be guarded at mantrip loading and unloading points, and at shaft stations. Where such trolley wires and bare power conductors are less than 7 feet above the rail, they shall be guarded at all points where persons work or pass regularly beneath.
§ 57.12081
Bonding metal pipelines to ground return circuits.
All metal pipelines, 1,000 feet or more in length running parallel to trolley tracks, that are used as a ground return circuit shall be bonded to the return circuit rail at the ends of the pipeline and at intervals not to exceed 500 feet.
§ 57.12082
Isolation of powerlines.
Powerlines shall be well separated or insulated from waterlines, telephone lines and air lines.
§ 57.12083
Support of power cables in shafts and boreholes.
Power cables in shafts and boreholes shall be fastened securely in such a manner as to prevent undue strain on the sheath, insulation, or conductors.
§ 57.12084
Branch circuit disconnecting devices.
Disconnecting switches that can be opened safely under load shall be provided underground at all branch circuits extending from primary power circuits near shafts, adits, levels and boreholes.
§ 57.12085
Transformer stations.
Transformer stations shall be enclosed to prevent persons from unintentionally or inadvertently contacting energized parts.
§ 57.12086
Location of trolley wire.
Trolley and trolley feeder wire shall be installed opposite the clearance side of haulageways. However, this standard does not apply where physical limitations would prevent the safe installation or use of such trolley and trolley feeder wire.
§ 57.12088
Splicing trailing cables.
No splice, except a vulcanized splice or its equivalent, shall be made in a trailing cable within 25 feet of the machine unless the machine is equipped with a cable reel or other power feed cable payout-retrieval system. However, a temporary splice may be made to move the equipment for repair.

# Subpart L—Compressed Air and Boilers
§ 57.13001
General requirements for boilers and pressure vessels.
All boilers and pressure vessels shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and specifications of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
§ 57.13010
Reciprocating-type air compressors.
(a) Reciprocating-type air compressors rated over 10 horsepower shall be equipped with automatic temperature-actuated shutoff mechanisms which shall be set or adjusted to the compressor when the normal operating temperature is exceeded by more than 25 percent.
(b) However, this standard does not apply to reciprocating-type air compressors rated over 10 horsepower if equipped with fusible plugs that were installed in the compressor discharge lines before November 15, 1979, and designed to melt at temperatures at least 50 degrees below the flash point of the compressors' lubricating oil.
§ 57.13011
Air receiver tanks.
Air receiver tanks shall be equipped with one or more automatic pressure-relief valves. The total relieving capacity of the relief valves shall prevent pressure from exceeding the maximum allowable working pressure in a receiver tank by not more than 10 percent. Air receiver tanks also shall be equipped with indicating pressure gages which accurately measure the pressure within the air receiver tanks.
§ 57.13012
Compressor air intakes.
Compressor air intakes shall be installed to ensure that only clean, uncontaminated air enters the compressors.
§ 57.13015
Inspection of compressed-air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels.
(a) Compressed-air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels shall be inspected by inspectors holding a valid National Board Commission and in accordance with the applicable chapters of the National Board Inspection Code, a Manual for Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1979. This code is incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. It may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, and may be obtained from the publisher, the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1055 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229.
(b) Records of inspections shall be kept in accordance with requirements of the National Board Inspection Code, and the records shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative.
§ 57.13017
Compressor discharge pipes.
Compressor discharge pipes where carbon build-up may occur shall be cleaned periodically as recommended by the manufacturer, but no less frequently than once every two years.
§ 57.13019
Pressure system repairs.
Repairs involving the pressure system of compressors, receivers, or compressed-air-powered equipment shall not be attempted until the pressure has been bled off.
§ 57.13020
Use of compressed air.
At no time shall compressed air be directed toward a person. When compressed air is used, all necessary precautions shall be taken to protect persons from injury.
§ 57.13021
High-pressure hose connections.
Except where automatic shutoff valves are used, safety chains or other suitable locking devices shall be used at connections to machines of high-pressure hose lines of
3/4
-inch inside diameter or larger, and between high-pressure hose lines of
3/4
-inch inside diameter or larger, where a connection failure would create a hazard.
§ 57.13030
Boilers.
(a) Fired pressure vessels (boilers) shall be equipped with water level gauges, pressure gauges, automatic pressure-relief valves, blowdown piping, and other safety devices approved by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers to protect against hazards from overpressure, flameouts, fuel interruptions and low water level, all as required by the appropriate sections, chapters and appendices listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
(b) These gauges, devices and piping shall be designed, installed, operated, maintained, repaired, altered, inspected, and tested by inspectors holding a valid National Board Commission and in accordance with the following listed sections, chapters and appendices:
(1) The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

# Section and Title
I Power Boilers
II Material Specifications—Part A—Ferrous
II Material Specifications—Part B—Non-ferrous
II Material Specifications—Part C—Welding Rods, Electrodes, and Filler Metals
IV Heating Boilers
V Nondestructive Examination
VI Recommended Rules for Care and Operation of Heating Boilers
VII Recommended Rules for Care of Power Boilers
(2) The National Board Inspection Code, a Manual for Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1979, published by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.

# Chapter and Title
I Glossary of Terms
II Inspection of Boilers and Pressure Vessels
III Repairs and Alterations to Boiler and Pressure Vessels by Welding
IV Shop Inspection of Boilers and Pressure Vessels
V Inservice Inspection of Pressure Vessels by Authorized Owner-User Inspection Agencies

# Appendix and Title
A Safety and Safety Relief Valves
B Non-ASME Code Boilers and Pressure Vessels
C Storage of Mild Steel Covered Arc Welding Electrodes
D-R National Board “R” (Repair) Symbol Stamp
D-VR National Board “VR” (Repair of Safety and Safety Relief Valve) Symbol Stamp
D-VR1 Certificate of Authorization for Repair Symbol Stamp for Safety and Safety Relief Valves
D-VR2 Outline of Basic Elements of Written Quality Control System for Repairers of ASME Safety and Safety Relief Valves
D-VR3 Nameplate Stamping for “VR”
E Owner-User Inspection Agencies
F Inspection Forms
(c) Records of inspections and repairs shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and the National Board Inspection Code. The records shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative.
(d) Sections of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and chapters and appendices of the National Board Inspection Code, 1979, listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. These publications may be obtained from the publishers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007, Phone: 800-843-2763 (toll free);
http://www.asme.org
, and the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1055 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229. The publication may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Subpart M—Machinery and Equipment

# Source:
53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 57.14000
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Travelway.
A passage, walk, or way regularly used or designated for persons to go from one place to another.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 69 FR 38842, June 29, 2004]

# Safety Devices and Maintenance Requirements
§ 57.14100
Safety defects; examination, correction and records.
(a) Self-propelled mobile equipment to be used during a shift shall be inspected by the equipment operator before being placed in operation on that shift.
(b) Defects on any equipment, machinery, and tools that affect safety shall be corrected in a timely manner to prevent the creation of a hazard to persons.
(c) When defects make continued operation hazardous to persons, the defective items including self-propelled mobile equipment shall be taken out of service and placed in a designated area posted for that purpose, or a tag or other effective method of marking the defective items shall be used to prohibit further use until the defects are corrected.
(d) Defects on self-propelled mobile equipment affecting safety, which are not corrected immediately, shall be reported to, and recorded by, the mine operator. The records shall be kept at the mine or nearest mine office from the date the defects are recorded, until the defects are corrected. Such records shall be made available for inspection
by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 57.14101
Brakes.
(a)
Minimum requirements.
(1) Self-propelled mobile equipment shall be equipped with a service brake system capable of stopping and holding the equipment with its typical load on the maximum grade it travels. This standard does not apply to equipment which is not originally equipped with brakes unless the manner in which the equipment is being operated requires the use of brakes for safe operation. This standard does not apply to rail equipment.
(2) If equipped on self-propelled mobile equipment, parking brakes shall be capable of holding the equipment with its typical load on the maximum grade it travels.
(3) All braking systems installed on the equipment shall be maintained in functional condition.
(b)
Testing.
(1) Service brake tests shall be conducted on surface-operated equipment at underground mines when an MSHA inspector has reasonable cause to believe that the service brake system does not function as required, unless the mine operator removes the equipment from service for the appropriate repair;
(2) The performance of the service brakes shall be evaluated according to Table M-1.
Table M-1
Gross vehicle weight lbs.
Equipment Speed, MPH
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Service Brake Maximum Stopping Distance—Feet
0-36,000
34
38
43
48
53
59
64
70
76
83
89
36,000-70,000
41
46
52
58
62
70
76
83
90
97
104
70,000-14,0000
48
54
61
67
74
81
88
95
103
111
119
140,000-250,000
56
62
69
77
84
92
100
108
116
125
133
250,000-400,000
59
66
74
81
89
97
105
114
123
132
141
Over-400,000
63
71
78
86
94
103
111
120
129
139
148
Stopping distances are computed using a constant deceleration of 9.66 FPS
2
and system response times of .5.1, 1.5, 2, 2.25 and 2.5 seconds for each of increasing weight category respectively. Stopping distance values include a one-second operator response time.
Table M-2—The Speed of a Vehicle Can Be Determined by Clocking It Through a 100-Foot Measured Course at Constant Velocity Using Table M-2. When the Service Brakes Are Applied at the End of the Course, Stopping Distance Can Be Measured and Compared to Table M-1.
Miles per hour
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Seconds required to travel 100 feet
6.8
6.2
5.7
5.2
4.9
4.5
4.3
4.0
3.8
3.6
3.4
(3) Service brake tests shall be conducted under the direction of the mine operator in cooperation with and according to the instructions provided by the MSHA inspector as follows:
(i) Equipment capable of traveling at least 10 miles per hour shall be tested with a typical load for that particular piece of equipment. Front-end loaders shall be tested with the loader bucket empty. Equipment shall not be tested when carrying hazardous loads, such as explosives.
(ii) The approach shall be of sufficient length to allow the equipment operator to reach and maintain a constant speed between 10 and 20 miles per hour prior to entering the 100 foot measured area. The constant speed shall be maintained up to the point when the equipment operator receives the signal to apply the brakes. The roadway shall be wide enough to accommodate the size of the equipment being tested. The ground shall be generally level, packed, and dry in the braking portion of the test course. Ground moisture may be present to the extent that it does not adversely affect the braking surface.
(iii) Braking is to be performed using only those braking systems, including
auxiliary retarders, which are designed to bring the equipment to a stop under normal operating conditions. Parking or emergency (secondary) brakes are not to be actuated during the test.
(iv) The tests shall be conducted with the transmission in the gear appropriate for the speed the equipment is traveling except for equipment which is designed for the power train to be disengaged during braking.
(v) Testing speeds shall be a minimum of 10 miles per hour and a maximum of 20 miles per hour.
(vi) Stopping distances shall be measured from the point at which the equipment operator receives the signal to apply the service brakes to the final stopped position.
(4) Test results shall be evaluated as follows:
(i) If the initial test run is valid and the stopping distance does not exceed the corresponding stopping distance listed in Table 1, the performance of the service brakes shall be considered acceptable. For tests to be considered valid, the equipment shall not slide sideways or exhibit other lateral motion during the braking portion of the test.
(ii) If the equipment exceeds the maximum stopping distance in the initial test run, the mine operator may request from the inspector up to four additional test runs with two runs to be conducted in each direction. The performance of the service brakes shall be considered acceptable if the equipment does not exceed the maximum stopping distance on at least three of the additional tests.
(5) Where there is not an appropriate test site at the mine or the equipment is not capable of traveling at least 10 miles per hour, service brake tests will not be conducted. In such cases, the inspector will rely upon other available evidence to determine whether the service brake system meets the performance requirements of this standard.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 57.14102
Brakes for rail equipment.
Braking systems on railroad cars and locomotives shall be maintained in functional condition.
§ 57.14103
Operators' stations.
(a) If windows are provided on operators' stations of self-propelled mobile equipment, the windows shall be made of safety glass or material with equivalent safety characteristics. The windows shall be maintained to provide visibility for safe operation.
(b) If damaged windows obscure visibility necessary for safe operation, or create a hazard to the equipment operator, the windows shall be replaced or removed. Damaged windows shall be replaced if absence of a window would expose the equipment operator to hazardous environmental conditions which would affect the ability of the equipment operator to safely operate the equipment.
(c) The operators' stations of self-propelled mobile equipment shall—
(1) Be free of materials that may create a hazard to persons by impairing the safe operation of the equipment; and
(2) Not be modified, in a manner that obscures visibility necessary for safe operation.
§ 57.14104
Tire repairs.
(a) Before a tire is removed from a vehicle for tire repair, the valve core shall be partially removed to allow for gradual deflation and then removed. During deflation, to the extent possible, persons shall stand outside of the potential trajectory of the lock ring of a multi-piece wheel rim.
(b) To prevent injury from wheel rims during tire inflation, one of the following shall be used:
(1) A wheel cage or other restraining device that will constrain all wheel rim components during an explosive separation of a multi-piece wheel rim, or during the sudden release of contained air in a single piece rim wheel; or
(2) A stand-off inflation device which permits persons to stand outside of the potential trajectory of wheel components.
§ 57.14105
Procedures during repairs or maintenance.
Repairs or maintenance on machinery or equipment shall be performed only after the power is off, and the machinery or equipment blocked against
hazardous motion. Machinery or equipment motion or activation is permitted to the extent that adjustments or testing cannot be performed without motion or activation, provided that persons are effectively protected from hazardous motion.
§ 57.14106
Falling object protection.
(a) Fork-lift trucks, front-end loaders, and bulldozers shall be provided with falling object protective structures if used in an area where falling objects could create a hazard to the operator.
(b) The protective structure shall be capable of withstanding the falling object loads to which it could be subjected.
§ 57.14107
Moving machine parts.
(a) Moving machine parts shall be guarded to protect persons from contacting gears, sprockets, chains, drive, head, tail, and takeup pulleys, flywheels, coupling, shafts, fan blades; and similar moving parts that can cause injury.
(b) Guards shall not be required where the exposed moving parts are at least seven feet away from walking or working surfaces.
§ 57.14108
Overhead drive belts.
Overhead drive belts shall be guarded to contain the whipping action of a broken belt if that action could be hazardous to persons.
§ 57.14109
Unguarded conveyors with adjacent travelways.
Unguarded conveyors next to travelways shall be equipped with—
(a) Emergency stop devices which are located so that a person falling on or against the conveyor can readily deactivate the conveyor drive motor; or
(b) Railings which—
(1) Are positioned to prevent persons from falling on or against the conveyor;
(2) Will be able to withstand the vibration, shock, and wear to which they will be subjected during normal operation; and
(3) Are constructed and maintained so that they will not create a hazard.
§ 57.14110
Flying or falling materials.
In areas where flying or falling materials generated from the operation of screens, crushers, or conveyors present a hazard, guards, shields, or other devices that provide protection against such flying or falling materials shall be provided to protect persons.
§ 57.14111
Slusher, backlash guards and securing.
(a) When persons are exposed to slushing operations, the slushers shall be equipped with rollers and drum covers and anchored securely before slushing operations are started to protect against hazardous movement before slushing operations are started.
(b) Slushers rated over 10 horsepower shall be equipped with backlash guards, unless the equipment operator is otherwise protected.
(c) This standard does not apply to air tuggers of 10 horsepower or less that have only one cable and one drum.
§ 57.14112
Construction and maintenance of guards.
(a) Guards shall be constructed and maintained to—
(1) Withstand the vibration, shock, and wear to which they will be subjected during normal operation; and
(2) Not create a hazard by their use.
(b) Guards shall be securely in place while machinery is being operated, except when testing or making adjustments which cannot be performed without removal of the guard.
§ 57.14113
Inclined conveyors: backstops or brakes.
Backstops or brakes shall be installed on drive units of inclined conveyors to prevent the conveyors from running in reverse, creating a hazard to persons.
§ 57.14114
Air valves for pneumatic equipment.
A manual master quick-close type air valve shall be installed on all pneumatic-powered equipment if there is a hazard of uncontrolled movement when the air supply is activated. The valve
shall be closed except when the equipment is being operated.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 57.14115
Stationary grinding machines.
Stationary grinding machines, other than special bit grinders, shall be equipped with—
(a) Peripheral hoods capable of withstanding the force of a bursting wheel and enclosing not less than 270°—of the periphery of the wheel;
(b) Adjustable tool rests set so that the distance between the grinding surface of the wheel and the tool rest is not greater than
1/8
inch; and
(c) A safety washer on each side of the wheel.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988]
§ 57.14116
Hand-held power tools.
(a) Power drills, disc sanders, grinders and circular and chain saws, when used in the hand-held mode shall be operated with controls which require constant hand or finger pressure.
(b) Circular saws and chain saws shall not be equipped with devices which lock-on the operating controls.
§ 57.14130
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts for surface equipment.
(a)
Equipment included.
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) and seat belts shall be installed on—
(1) Crawler tractors and crawler loaders;
(2) Graders;
(3) Wheel loaders and wheel tractors;
(4) The tractor portion of semi-mounted scrapers, dumpers, water wagons, bottom-dump wagons, rear-dump wagons, and towed fifth wheel attachments;
(5) Skid-steer loaders; and
(6) Agricultural tractors.
(b)
ROPS construction.
ROPS shall meet the requirements of the following Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) publications, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference:
(1) SAE J1040, “Performance Criteria for Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry, and Mining Machines,”, 1986; or
(2) SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors”, 1983.
(c)
ROPS labeling.
ROPS shall have a label permanently affixed to the structure identifying—
(1) The manufacturer's name and address;
(2) The ROPS model number; and
(3) The make and model number of the equipment for which the ROPS is designed.
(d)
ROPS installation.
ROPS shall be installed on the equipment in accordance with the recommendations of the ROPS manufacturer.
(e)
ROPS maintenance.
(1) ROPS shall be maintained in a condition that meets the performance requirements applicable to the equipment. If the ROPS is subjected to a roll-over or abnormal structural loading, the equipment manufacturer or a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design shall recertify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements before it is returned to service.
(2) Alterations or repairs on ROPS shall be performed only with approval from the ROPS manufacturer or under the instructions of a registered professional engineer with knowledge and experience in ROPS design. The manufacturer or engineer shall certify that the ROPS meets the applicable performance requirements.
(f)
Exemptions.
(1) This standard does not apply to—
(i) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to July 1, 1969;
(ii) Over-the-road type tractors that pull trailers or vans on highways;
(iii) Equipment that is only operated by remote control; and
(2) Self-propelled mobile equipment manufactured prior to October 24, 1988, that is equipped with ROPS and seat belts that meet the installation and performance requirements of 30 CFR 57.9088 (1986 edition) shall be considered in compliance with paragraphs (b) and (h) of this section.
(g)
Wearing seat belts.
Seat belts shall be worn by the equipment operator except that when operating graders from
a standing position, the grader operator shall wear safety lines and a harness in place of a seat belt.
(h)
Seat belts construction.
Seat belts required under this section shall meet the requirement of SAE J386, “Operator Restraint System for Off-Road Work Machines” (1985, 1993, or 1997), or SAE J1194, “Roll-Over Protective Structures (ROPS) for Wheeled Agricultural Tractors” (1983, 1989, 1994, or 1999), as applicable, which are incorporated by reference.
(i)
Seat belt maintenance.
Seat belts shall be maintained in functional condition, and replaced when necessary to assure proper performance.
(j)
Publications.
The incorporation by reference of these publications is approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 724-776-4841;
http://www.sae.org.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988; 53 FR 44588, Nov. 4, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995; 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 19347, Apr. 21, 2003; 80 FR 52988, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 57.14131
Seat belts for surface haulage trucks.
(a) Seat belts shall be provided and worn in haulage trucks.
(b) Seat belts shall be maintained in functional condition, and replaced when necessary to assure proper performance.
(c) Seat belts required under this section shall meet the requirements of SAE J386, “Operator Restraint System for Off-Road Work Machines” (1985, 1993, or 1997), which are incorporated by reference.
(d) The incorporation by reference of these publications is approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 724-776-4841;
http://www.sae.org.
[53 FR 32528, Aug. 25, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 19347, Apr. 21, 2003; 80 FR 52988, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 57.14132
Horns and backup alarms for surface equipment.
(a) Manually-operated horns or other audible warning devices provided on self-propelled mobile equipment as a safety device shall be maintained in a functional condition.
(b)(1) When the operator has an obstructed view to the rear, self-propelled mobile equipment shall have—
(i) An automatic reverse-activated signal alarm;
(ii) A wheel-mounted bell alarm which sounds at least once for each three feet of reverse movement;
(iii) A discriminating backup alarm that covers the area of obstructed view; or
(iv) An observer to signal when it is safe to back up.
(2) Alarms shall be audible above the surrounding noise level.
(3) An automatic reverse-activated strobe light may be used at night in lieu of an audible reverse alarm.
(c) This standard does not apply to rail equipment.
§ 57.14160
Mantrip trolley wire hazards underground.
Mantrips shall be covered if there is danger of persons contacting the trolley wire.
§ 57.14161
Makeshift couplings.
Couplings used on underground rail equipment shall be designed for that equipment, except that makeshift couplings may be used to move disabled rail equipment for repairs if no hazard to persons is created.
§ 57.14162
Trip lights.
On underground rail haulage, trip lights shall be used on the rear of pulled trips and on the front of pushed trips.

# Safety Practices and Operational Procedures
§ 57.14200
Warnings prior to starting or moving equipment.
Before starting crushers or moving self-propelled mobile equipment, equipment operators shall sound a warning that is audible above the surrounding noise level or use other effective means to warn all persons who could be exposed to a hazard from the equipment.
§ 57.14201
Conveyor start-up warnings.
(a) When the entire length of a conveyor is visible from the starting switch, the conveyor operator shall visually check to make certain that all persons are in the clear before starting the conveyor.
(b) When the entire length of the conveyor is not visible from the starting switch, a system which provides visible or audible warning shall be installed and operated to warn persons that the conveyor will be started. Within 30 seconds after the warning is given, the conveyor shall be started or a second warning shall be given.
§ 57.14202
Manual cleaning of conveyor pulleys.
Pulleys of conveyors shall not be cleaned manually while the conveyor is in motion.
§ 57.14203
Application of belt dressing.
Belt dressings shall not be applied manually while belts are in motion unless a pressurized-type applicator is used that allows the dressing to be applied from outside the guards.
§ 57.14204
Machinery lubrication.
Machinery or equipment shall not be lubricated manually while it is in motion where application of the lubricant may expose persons to injury.
§ 57.14205
Machinery, equipment, and tools.
Machinery, equipment, and tools shall not be used beyond the design capacity intended by the manufacturer, where such use may create a hazard to persons.
§ 57.14206
Securing movable parts.
(a) When moving mobile equipment between workplaces, booms, forks, buckets, beds, and similar movable parts of the equipment shall be positioned in the travel mode and, if required for safe travel, mechanically secured.
(b) When mobile equipment is unattended or not in use, dippers, buckets and scraper blades shall be lowered to the ground. Other movable parts, such as booms, shall be mechanically secured or positioned to prevent movement which would create a hazard to persons.
§ 57.14207
Parking procedures for unattended equipment.
Mobile equipment shall not be left unattended unless the controls are placed in the park position and the parking brake, if provided, is set. When parked on a grade, the wheels or tracks of mobile equipment shall be either chocked or turned into a bank or rib.
§ 57.14208
Warning devices.
(a) Visible warning devices shall be used when parked mobile equipment creates a hazard to persons in other mobile equipment.
(b) Mobile equipment, other than forklifts, carrying loads that project beyond the sides or more than four feet beyond the rear of the equipment shall have a warning flag at the end of the projection. Under conditions of limited visibility these loads shall have a warning light at the end of the projection. Such flags or lights shall be attached to the end of the projection or be carried by persons walking beside or behind the projection.
§ 57.14209
Safety procedures for towing.
(a) A properly sized tow bar or other effective means of control shall be used to tow mobile equipment.
(b) Unless steering and braking are under the control of the equipment operator on the towed equipment, a safety chain or wire rope capable of withstanding the loads to which it could be subjected shall be used in conjunction with any primary rigging.
(c) This provision does not apply to rail equipment.
§ 57.14210
Movement of dippers, buckets, loading booms, or suspended loads.
(a) Dippers, buckets, loading booms, or suspended loads shall not be swung over the operators' stations of self-propelled mobile equipment until the equipment operator is out of the operator's station and in a safe location.
(b) This section does not apply when the equipment is specifically designed to protect the equipment operator from falling objects.
§ 57.14211
Blocking equipment in a raised position.
(a) Persons shall not work on top of, under, or work from mobile equipment in a raised position until the equipment has been blocked or mechanically secured to prevent it from rolling or falling accidentally.
(b) Persons shall not work on top of, under, or work from a raised component of mobile equipment until the component has been blocked or mechanically secured to prevent accidental lowering. The equipment must also be blocked or secured to prevent rolling.
(c) A raised component must be secured to prevent accidental lowering when persons are working on or around mobile equipment and are exposed to the hazard of accidental lowering of the component.
(d) Under this section, a raised component of mobile equipment is considered to be blocked or mechanically secured if provided with a functional load-locking device or devices which prevent free and uncontrolled descent.
(e) Blocking or mechanical securing of the raised component is required during repair or maintenance of elevated mobile work platforms.
§ 57.14212
Chains, ropes, and drive belts.
Chains, ropes, and drive belts shall be guided mechanically onto moving pulleys, sprockets, or drums except where equipment is designed specifically for hand feeding.
§ 57.14213
Ventilation and shielding for welding.
(a) Welding operations shall be shielded when performed at locations where arc flash could be hazardous to persons.
(b) All welding operations shall be well-ventilated.
§ 57.14214
Train warnings.
A warning that is audible above the surrounding noise level shall be sounded—
(a) Immediately prior to moving trains;
(b) When trains approach persons, crossing, other trains on adjacent tracks; and
(c) Any place where the train operator's vision is obscured.
§ 57.14215
Coupling or uncoupling cars.
Prior to coupling or uncoupling cars manually, trains shall be brought to a complete stop, and then moved at minimum tram speed until the coupling or uncoupling activity is completed. Coupling or uncoupling shall not be attempted from the inside of curves unless the railroad and cars are designed to eliminate hazards to persons.
§ 57.14216
Backpoling.
Backpoling of trolleys is prohibited except where there is inadequate clearance to reverse the trolley pole. Where backpoling is required, it shall be done only at the minimum tram speed of the trolley.
§ 57.14217
Securing parked railcars.
Parked railcars shall be blocked securely unless held effectively by brakes.
§ 57.14218
Movement of equipment on adjacent tracks.
When a locomotive on one track is used to move rail equipment on adjacent tracks, a chain, cable, or drawbar shall be used which is capable of withstanding the loads to which it could be subjected.
§ 57.14219
Brakeman signals.
When a train is under the direction of a brakeman and the train operator cannot clearly recognize the brakeman's signals, the train operator shall bring the train to a stop.
Pt. 57, Subpt. M, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart M of Part 57—National Consensus Standards
Mine operators seeking further information regarding the construction and installation of falling object protective structures (FOPS) may consult the following national consensus standards, as applicable.
MSHA Standard 57.14106, Falling Object Protection
Equipment
National consensus standard
Front-end loaders and bulldozers
Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) minimum performance criteria for falling object protective structures (FOPS) SAE J231—January, 1981.
Fork-lift trucks
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) safety standard for low lift and high lift trucks, B 56.1, section 7.27—1983; or
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard, rough terrain fork lift trucks, B 56.6—1987.

# Subpart N—Personal Protection

# Surface and Underground
§ 57.15001
First aid materials.
Adequate first-aid materials, including stretchers and blankets shall be provided at places convenient to all working areas. Water or neutralizing agents shall be available where corrosive chemicals or other harmful substances are stored, handled, or used.
§ 57.15002
Hard hats.
All persons shall wear suitable hard hats when in or around a mine or plant where falling objects may create a hazard.
§ 57.15003
Protective footwear.
All persons shall wear suitable protective footwear when in or around an area of a mine or plant where a hazard exists which could cause an injury to the feet.
§ 57.15004
Eye protection.
All persons shall wear safety glasses, goggles, or face shields or other suitable protective devices when in or around an area of a mine or plant where a hazard exists which could cause injury to unprotected eyes.
§ 57.15005
Safety belts and lines.
Safety belts and lines shall be worn when persons work where there is danger of falling; a second person shall tend the lifeline when bins, tanks, or other dangerous areas are entered.
§ 57.15006
Protective equipment and clothing for hazards and irritants.
Special protective equipment and special protective clothing shall be provided, maintained in a sanitary and reliable condition and used whenever hazards of process or environment, chemical hazards, radiological hazards, or mechanical irritants are encountered in a manner capable of causing injury or impairment.
§ 57.15007
Protective equipment or clothing for welding, cutting, or working with molten metal.
Protective clothing or equipment and face shields or goggles shall be worn when welding, cutting, or working with molten metal.
§ 57.15014
Eye protection when operating grinding wheels.
Face shields or goggles in good condition shall be worn when operating a grinding wheel.
[53 FR 32533, Aug. 25, 1988]

# Surface Only
§ 57.15020
Life jackets and belts.
Life jackets or belts shall be worn where there is danger from falling into water.

# Underground Only
§ 57.15030
Provision and maintenance of self-rescue devices.
A 1-hour self-rescue device approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 shall be made available by the operator to all personnel underground. Each operator shall maintain self-rescue devices in good condition.
[60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995]
§ 57.15031
Location of self-rescue devices.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) and (c) of this section, self-rescue devices meeting the requirements of standard 57.15030 shall be worn or carried by all persons underground.
(b) Where the wearing or carrying of self-rescue devices meeting the requirements of standard 57.15030 is hazardous to a person, such self-rescue devices shall be located at a distance no greater than 25 feet from such person.
(c) Where a person works on or around mobile equipment, self-rescue devices may be placed in a readily accessible location on such equipment.

# Subpart O—Materials Storage and Handling
§ 57.16001
Stacking and storage of materials.
Supplies shall not be stacked or stored in a manner which creates tripping or fall-of-material hazards.
§ 57.16002
Bins, hoppers, silos, tanks, and surge piles.
(a) Bins, hoppers, silos, tanks, and surge piles, where loose unconsolidated materials are stored, handled or transferred shall be—
(1) Equipped with mechanical devices or other effective means of handling materials so that during normal operations persons are not required to enter or work where they are exposed to entrapment by the caving or sliding of materials; and
(2) Equipped with supply and discharge operating controls. The controls shall be located so that spills or overruns will not endanger persons.
(b) Where persons are required to move around or over any facility listed in this standard, suitable walkways or passageways shall be provided.
(c) Where persons are required to enter any facility listed in this standard for maintenance or inspection purposes, ladders, platforms, or staging shall be provided. No person shall enter the facility until the supply and discharge of materials have ceased and the supply and discharge equipment is locked out. Persons entering the facility shall wear a safety belt or harness equipped with a lifeline suitably fastened. A second person, similarly equipped, shall be stationed near where the lifeline is fastened and shall constantly adjust it or keep it tight as needed, with minimum slack.
§ 57.16003
Storage of hazardous materials.
Materials that can create hazards if accidentally liberated from their containers shall be stored in a manner that minimizes the dangers.
§ 57.16004
Containers for hazardous materials.
Containers holding hazardous materials must be of a type approved for such use by recognized agencies.
[67 FR 42389, June 21, 2002]
§ 57.16005
Securing gas cylinders.
Compressed and liquid gas cylinders shall be secured in a safe manner.
§ 57.16006
Protection of gas cylinder valves.
Valves on compressed gas cylinders shall be protected by covers when being transported or stored, and by a safe location when the cylinders are in use.
§ 57.16007
Taglines, hitches, and slings.
(a) Taglines shall be attached to loads that may require steadying or guidance while suspended.
(b) Hitches and slings used to hoist materials shall be suitable for the particular material handled.
§ 57.16009
Suspended loads.
Persons shall stay clear of suspended loads.
§ 57.16010
Dropping materials from overhead.
To protect personnel, material shall not be dropped from an overhead elevation until the drop area is first cleared of personnel and the area is then either guarded or a suitable warning is given.
§ 57.16011
Riding hoisted loads or on the hoist hook.
Persons shall not ride on loads being moved by cranes or derricks, nor shall they ride the hoisting hooks unless such method eliminates a greater hazard.
§ 57.16012
Storage of incompatible substances.
Chemical substances, including concentrated acids and alkalies, shall be stored to prevent inadvertent contact with each other or with other substances, where such contact could cause a violent reaction or the liberation of harmful fumes or gases.
§ 57.16013
Working with molten metal.
Suitable warning shall be given before molten metal is poured and before a container of molten metal is moved.
§ 57.16014
Operator-carrying overhead cranes.
Operator-carrying overhead cranes shall be provided with—
(a) Bumpers at each end of each rail;
(b) Automatic switches to halt uptravel of the blocks before they strike the hoist;
(c) Effective audible warning signals within easy reach of the operator; and
(d) A means to lock out the disconnect switch.
§ 57.16015
Work or travel on overhead crane bridges.
No person shall work from or travel on the bridge of an overhead crane unless the bridge is provided with substantial footwalks with toeboards and railings the length of the bridge.
§ 57.16016
Lift trucks.
Fork and other similar types of lift trucks shall be operated with the:
(a) Upright tilted back to steady and secure the load;
(b) Load in the upgrade position when ascending or descending grades in excess of 10 percent;
(c) Load not raised or lowered enroute except for minor adjustments; and
(d) Load-engaging device downgrade when traveling unloaded on all grades.
§ 57.16017
Hoisting heavy equipment or material.
Where the stretching or contraction of a hoist rope could create a hazard, chairs or other suitable blocking shall be used to support conveyances at shaft landings before heavy equipment or material is loaded or unloaded.

# Subpart P—Illumination
§ 57.17001
Illumination of surface working areas.
Illumination sufficient to provide safe working conditions shall be provided in and on all surface structures, paths, walkways, stairways, switch panels, loading and dumping sites, and working areas.
§ 57.17010
Electric lamps.
Individual electric lamps shall be carried for illumination by all persons underground.

# Subpart Q—Safety Programs

# Surface and Underground
§ 57.18002
Examination of working places.
(a) A competent person designated by the operator shall examine each working place at least once each shift before miners begin work in that place, for conditions that may adversely affect safety or health.
(1) The operator shall promptly notify miners in any affected areas of any conditions found that may adversely affect safety or health and promptly initiate appropriate action to correct such conditions.
(2) Conditions noted by the person conducting the examination that may present an imminent danger shall be brought to the immediate attention of the operator who shall withdraw all persons from the area affected (except persons referred to in section 104(c) of
the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977) until the danger is abated.
(b) A record of each examination shall be made before the end of the shift for which the examination was conducted. The record shall contain the name of the person conducting the examination; date of the examination; location of all areas examined; and description of each condition found that may adversely affect the safety or health of miners.
(c) When a condition that may adversely affect safety or health is corrected, the examination record shall include, or be supplemented to include, the date of the corrective action.
(d) The operator shall maintain the examination records for at least one year, make the records available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representatives of miners, and provide these representatives a copy on request.
[84 FR 51401, Sept. 30, 2019]
§ 57.18006
New employees.
New employees shall be indoctrinated in safety rules and safe work procedures.
§ 57.18009
Designation of person in charge.
When persons are working at the mine, a competent person designated by the mine operator shall be in attendance to take charge in case of an emergency.
§ 57.18010
First aid.
An individual capable of providing first aid shall be available on all shifts. The individual shall be currently trained and have the skills to perform patient assessment and artificial respiration; control bleeding; and treat shock, wounds, burns, and musculoskeletal injuries. First aid training shall be made available to all interested miners.
[61 FR 50436, Sept. 26, 1996]
§ 57.18012
Emergency telephone numbers.
Emergency telephone numbers shall be posted at appropriate telephones.
§ 57.18013
Emergency communications system.
A suitable communication system shall be provided at the mine to obtain assistance in the event of an emergency.
§ 57.18014
Emergency medical assistance and transportation.
Arrangements shall be made in advance for obtaining emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons.

# Surface Only
§ 57.18020
Working alone.
No employee shall be assigned, or allowed, or be required to perform work alone in any area where hazardous conditions exist that would endanger his safety unless he can communicate with others, can be heard, or can be seen.

# Underground Only
§ 57.18025
Working alone.
No employee shall be assigned, or allowed, or be required to perform work alone in any area where hazardous conditions exist that would endanger his safety unless his cries for help can be heard or he can be seen.
§ 57.18028
Mine emergency and self-rescuer training.
(a) On an annual basis, all persons who are required to go underground shall be instructed in the Mine Safety and Health Administration approved course contained in Bureau of Mines Instruction Guide 19, “Mine Emergency Training” (September 1972). The instruction shall be given by MSHA personnel or by persons who are certified by the District Manager of the area in which the mine is located.
(b) On an annual basis, all persons who go underground shall be instructed in the Mine Safety and Health Administration course contained in Bureau of Mines Instruction Guide 2, “MSA W-65 Self-Rescuer” (March 1972) or Bureau of Mines Instruction Guide 3, “Permissible Drager 810 Respirator for Self-Rescue” (March 1972). The instruction shall be given by MSHA personnel or by persons who are certified by the District Manager of the area in which the
mine is located:
Provided, however,
That if a Mine Safety and Health Administration instructor or a certified instructor is not immediately available such instruction of new employees in self-rescuers may be conducted by qualified company personnel who are not certified, but who have obtained provisional approval from the District Manager. Any person who has not had self-rescuer instruction within 12 months immediately preceding going underground shall be instructed in the use of self-rescuers before going underground.
(c) All instructional material, handouts, visual aids, and other such teaching accessories used by the operator in the courses prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be available for inspection by the Secretary or his authorized representative.
(d) Records of all instruction shall be kept at the mine site or nearest mine office at least 2 years from the date of instruction. Upon completion of such instruction, copies of the record shall be submitted to the District Manager.
(e) The Bureau of Mines instruction guides to which reference is made in items (a) and (b) of this standard are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated instruction guides are available and shall be provided upon request made to any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health district office.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Subpart R—Personnel Hoisting
§ 57.19000
Application.
(a) The hoisting standards in this subpart apply to those hoists and appurtenances used for hoisting persons. However, where persons may be endangered by hoists and appurtenances used solely for handling ore, rock, and materials, the appropriate standards should be applied.
(b) Standards 57.19021 through 57.19028 shall apply to wire ropes in service used to hoist—
(1) Persons in shafts and slopes underground;
(2) Persons with an incline hoist on the surface; or
(3) Loads in shaft or slope development when persons work below suspended loads.
(4) These standards do not apply to wire ropes used for elevators.
(c) Emergency hoisting facilities should conform to the extent possible to safety requirements for other hoists, and should be adequate to remove the persons from the mine with a minimum of delay.

# Hoists
§ 57.19001
Rated capacities.
Hoists shall have rated capacities consistent with the loads handled and the recommended safety factors of the ropes used.
§ 57.19002
Anchoring.
Hoists shall be anchored securely.
§ 57.19003
Driving mechanism connections.
Belt, rope, or chains shall not be used to connect driving mechanisms to man hoists.
§ 57.19004
Brakes.
Any hoist used to hoist persons shall be equipped with a brake or brakes which shall be capable of holding its fully loaded cage, skip, or bucket at any point in the shaft.
§ 57.19005
Locking mechanism for clutch.
The operating mechanism of the clutch of every man-hoist drum shall be provided with a locking mechanism, or interlocked electrically or mechanically with the brake to prevent accidental withdrawal of the clutch.
§ 57.19006
Automatic hoist braking devices.
Automatic hoists shall be provided with devices that automatically apply the brakes in the event of power failure.
§ 57.19007
Overtravel and overspeed devices.
All man hoists shall be provided with devices to prevent overtravel. When utilized in shafts exceeding 100 feet in depth, such hoists shall also be provided with overspeed devices.
§ 57.19008
Friction hoist synchronizing mechanisms.
Where creep or slip may alter the effective position of safety devices, friction hoists shall be equipped with synchronizing mechanisms that recalibrate the overtravel devices and position indicators.
§ 57.19009
Position indicator.
An accurate and reliable indicator of the position of the cage, skip, bucket, or cars in the shaft shall be provided.
§ 57.19010
Location of hoist controls.
Hoist controls shall be placed or housed so that the noise from machinery or other sources will not prevent hoistmen from hearing signals.
§ 57.19011
Drum flanges.
Flanges on drums shall extend radially a minimum of 4 inches or three rope diameters beyond the last wrap, whichever is the lesser.
§ 57.19012
Grooved drums.
Where grooved drums are used, the grooves shall be of suitable size and pitch for the ropes used.
§ 57.19013
Diesel- and other fuel-injection-powered hoists.
Where any diesel or similar fuel-injection engine is used to power a hoist, the engine shall be equipped with a damper or other cutoff in its air intake system. The control handle shall be clearly labeled to indicate that its intended function is for emergency stopping only.
§ 57.19014
Friction hoist overtravel protection.
In a friction hoist installation, tapered guides or other approved devices shall be installed above and below the limits of regular travel of the conveyance and arranged to prevent overtravel in the event of failure of other devices.
§ 57.19017
Emergency braking for electric hoists.
Each electric hoist shall be equipped with a manually-operable switch that will initiate emergency braking action to bring the conveyance and the counterbalance safely to rest. This switch shall be located within reach of the hoistman in case the manual controls of the hoist fail.
§ 57.19018
Overtravel by-pass switches.
When an overtravel by-pass switch is installed, the switch shall function so as to allow the conveyance to be moved through the overtravel position when the switch is held in the closed position by the hoistman. The overtravel by-pass switch shall return automatically to the open position when released by the hoistman.

# Wire Ropes

# Authority:
Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811).
§ 57.19019
Guide ropes.
If guide ropes are used in shafts for personnel hoisting applications other than shaft development, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of the guide rope at installation shall meet the minimum value calculated as follows: Minimum value = Static Load × 5.0.
§ 57.19021
Minimum rope strength.
At installation, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of wire ropes used for hoisting shall meet the minimum rope strength values obtained by the following formulas in which “L” equals the maximum suspended rope length in feet:
(a)
Winding drum ropes
(all constructions, including rotation resistant).
For rope lengths less than 3,000 feet: Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0 − 0.001L)
For rope lengths 3,000 feet or greater: Minimum Value = Static Load × 4.0.
(b)
Friction drum ropes.
For rope lengths less than 4,000 feet: Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0 − 0.0005L)
For rope lengths 4,000 feet or greater: Minimum Value = Static Load × 5.0.
(c)
Tail ropes
(balance ropes).
Minimum Value = Weight of Rope × 7.0
§ 57.19022
Initial measurement.
After initial rope stretch but before visible wear occurs, the rope diameter of newly installed wire ropes shall be measured at least once in every third interval of active length and the measurements averaged to establish a baseline for subsequent measurements. A record of the measurements and the date shall be made by the person taking the measurements. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.19023
Examinations.
(a) At least once every fourteen calendar days, each wire rope in service shall be visually examined along its entire active length for visible structural damage, corrosion, and improper lubrication or dressing. In addition, visual examination for wear and broken wires shall be made at stress points, including the area near attachments, where the rope rests on sheaves, where the rope leaves the drum, at drum crossovers, and at change-of-layer regions. When any visible condition that results in a reduction of rope strength is present, the affected portion of the rope shall be examined on a daily basis.
(b) Before any person is hoisted with a newly installed wire rope or any wire rope that has not been examined in the previous fourteen calendar days, the wire rope shall be examined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) At least once every six months, nondestructive tests shall be conducted of the active length of the rope, or rope diameter measurements shall be made—
(1) Wherever wear is evident;
(2) Where the hoist rope rests on sheaves at regular stopping points;
(3) Where the hoist rope leaves the drum at regular stopping points; and
(4) At drum crossover and change-of-layer regions.
(d) At the completion of each examination required by paragraph (a) of this section, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any condition listed in paragraph (a) of this section is present, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records of examinations shall be retained for one year.
(e) The person making the measurements or nondestructive tests as required by paragraph (c) of this section shall record the measurements or test results and the date. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
§ 57.19024
Retirement criteria.
Unless damage or deterioration is removed by cutoff, wire ropes shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions occurs:
(a) The number of broken wires within a rope lay length, excluding filler wires, exceeds either—
(1) Five percent of the total number of wires; or
(2) Fifteen percent of the total number of wires within any strand.
(b) On a regular lay rope, more than one broken wire in the valley between strands in one rope lay length.
(c) A loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outer wires.
(d) Rope deterioration from corrosion.
(e) Distortion of the rope structure.
(f) Heat damage from any source.
(g) Diameter reduction due to wear that exceeds six percent of the baseline diameter measurement.
(h) Loss of more than ten percent of rope strength as determined by nondestructive testing.
§ 57.19025
Load end attachments.
(a) Wire rope shall be attached to the load by a method that develops at least 80 percent of the nominal strength of the rope.
(b) Except for terminations where use of other materials is a design feature, zinc (spelter) shall be used for socketing wire ropes. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer
(c) Load end attachment methods using splices are prohibited.
§ 57.19026
Drum end attachment.
(a) For drum end attachment, wire rope shall be attached—
(1) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the drum spoke;
(2) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the shaft, if the drum is fixed to the shaft; or
(3) By properly assembled anchor bolts, clamps, or wedges, provided that the attachment is a design feature of the hoist drum. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(b) A minimum of three full turns of wire rope shall be on the drum when the rope is extended to its maximum working length.
§ 57.19027
End attachment retermination.
Damaged or deteriorated wire rope shall be removed by cutoff and the rope reterminated where there is—
(a) More than one broken wire at an attachment;
(b) Improper installation of an attachment;
(c) Slippage at an attachment; or
(d) Evidence of deterioration from corrosion at an attachment.
§ 57.19028
End attachment replacement.
Wire rope attachments shall be replaced when cracked, deformed, or excessively worn.
§ 57.19030
Safety device attachments.
Safety device attachments to hoist ropes shall be selected, installed, and maintained according to manufacturers' specifications to minimize internal corrosion and weakening of the hoist rope.

# Headframes and Sheaves
§ 57.19035
Headframe design.
All headframes shall be constructed with suitable design considerations to allow for all dead loads, live loads, and wind loads.
§ 57.19036
Headframe height.
Headframes shall be high enough to provide clearance for overtravel and safe stopping of the conveyance.
§ 57.19037
Fleet angles.
Fleet angles on hoists installed after November 15, 1979, shall not be greater than one and one-half degrees for smooth drums or two degrees for grooved drums.
§ 57.19038
Platforms around elevated head sheaves.
Platforms with toeboards and handrails shall be provided around elevated head sheaves.

# Conveyances
§ 57.19045
Metal bonnets.
Man cages and skips used for hoisting or lowering employees or other persons in any vertical shaft or any incline shaft with an angle of inclination of forty-five degrees from the horizontal, shall be covered with a metal bonnet.
§ 57.19049
Hoisting persons in buckets.
Buckets shall not be used to hoist persons except during shaft sinking operations, inspection, maintenance, and repairs.
§ 57.19050
Bucket requirements.
Buckets used to hoist persons during vertical shaft sinking operations shall—
(a) Be securely attached to a crosshead when traveling in either direction between the lower and upper crosshead parking locations;
(b) Have overhead protection when the shaft depth exceeds 50 feet;
(c) Have sufficient depth or a suitably designed platform to transport persons safely in a standing position; and
(d) Have devices to prevent accidental dumping where the bucket is supported by a bail attached to its lower half.
§ 57.19054
Rope guides.
Where rope guides are used in shafts other than in shaft sinking operations, the rope guides shall be a type of lock coil construction.

# Hoisting Procedures
§ 57.19055
Availability of hoist operator for manual hoists.
When a manually operated hoist is used, a qualified hoistman shall remain within hearing of the telephone or signal device at all times while any person is underground.
§ 57.19056
Availability of hoist operator for automatic hoists.
When automatic hoisting is used, a competent operator of the hoist shall be readily available at or near the hoisting device while any person is underground.
§ 57.19057
Hoist operator's physical fitness.
No person shall operate a hoist unless within the preceding 12 months he has had a medical examination by a qualified, licensed physician who shall certify his fitness to perform this duty. Such certification shall be available at the mine.
§ 57.19058
Experienced hoist operators.
Only experienced hoistmen shall operate the hoist except in cases of emergency and in the training of new hoistmen.
§ 57.19061
Maximum hoisting speeds.
The safe speed for hoisting persons shall be determined for each shaft, and this speed shall not be exceeded. Persons shall not be hoisted at a speed faster than 2,500 feet per minute, except in an emergency.
§ 57.19062
Maximum acceleration and deceleration.
Maximum normal operating acceleration and deceleration shall not exceed 6 feet per second per second. During emergency braking, the deceleration shall not exceed 16 feet per second per second.
§ 57.19063
Persons allowed in hoist room.
Only authorized persons shall be in hoist rooms.
§ 57.19065
Lowering conveyances by the brakes.
Conveyances shall not be lowered by the brakes alone except during emergencies.
§ 57.19066
Maximum riders in a conveyance.
In shafts inclined over 45 degrees, the operator shall determine and post in the conveyance or at each shaft station the maximum number of persons permitted to ride in a hoisting conveyance at any one time. Each person shall be provided a minimum of 1.5 square feet of floor space.
§ 57.19067
Trips during shift changes.
During shift changes, an authorized person shall be in charge of each trip in which persons are hoisted.
§ 57.19068
Orderly conduct in conveyances.
Persons shall enter, ride, and leave conveyances in an orderly manner.
§ 57.19069
Entering and leaving conveyances.
Persons shall not enter or leave conveyances which are in motion or after a signal to move the conveyance has been given to the hoistman.
§ 57.19070
Closing cage doors or gates.
Cage doors or gates shall be closed while persons are being hoisted; they shall not be opened until the cage has come to a stop.
§ 57.19071
Riding in skips or buckets.
Persons shall not ride in skips or buckets with muck, supplies, materials, or tools other than small hand tools.
§ 57.19072
Skips and cages in same compartment.
When combinations of cages and skips are used in the same compartment, the cages shall be enclosed to protect personnel from flying material and the hoist speed reduced to man-speed as defined in standard 57.19061, but not to exceed 1,000 feet per minute. Muck shall not be hoisted with personnel during shift changes.
§ 57.19073
Hoisting during shift changes.
Rock or supplies shall not be hoisted in the same shaft as persons during shift changes, unless the compartments and dumping bins are partitioned to prevent spillage into the cage compartment.
§ 57.19074
Riding the bail, rim, bonnet, or crosshead.
Persons shall not ride the bail, rim, bonnet, or crosshead of any shaft conveyance except when necessary for inspection and maintenance, and then only when suitable protection for persons is provided.
§ 57.19075
Use of open hooks.
Open hooks shall not be used to hoist buckets or other conveyances.
§ 57.19076
Maximum speeds for hoisting persons in buckets.
When persons are hoisted in buckets, speeds shall not exceed 500 feet per minute and shall not exceed 200 feet per minute when within 100 feet of the intended station.
§ 57.19077
Lowering buckets.
Buckets shall be stopped about 15 feet from the shaft bottom to await a signal from one of the crew on the bottom for further lowering.
§ 57.19078
Hoisting buckets from the shaft bottom.
All buckets shall be stopped after being raised about three feet above the shaft bottom. A bucket shall be stabilized before a hoisting signal is given to continue hoisting the bucket to the crosshead. After a hoisting signal is given, hoisting to the crosshead shall be at a minimum speed. The signaling device shall be attended constantly until a bucket reaches the guides. When persons are hoisted, the signaling devices shall be attended until the crosshead has been engaged.
§ 57.19079
Blocking mine cars.
Where mine cars are hoisted by cage or skip, means for blocking cars shall be provided at all landings and also on the cage.
§ 57.19080
Hoisting tools, timbers, and other materials.
When tools, timbers, or other materials are being lowered or raised in a shaft by means of a bucket, skip, or cage, they shall be secured or so placed that they will not strike the sides of the shaft.
§ 57.19081
Conveyances not in use.
When conveyances controlled by a hoist operator are not in use, they shall be released and the conveyances shall be raised or lowered a suitable distance to prevent persons from boarding or loading the conveyances.
§ 57.19083
Overtravel backout device.
A manually operated device shall be installed on each electric hoist that will allow the conveyance or counterbalance to be removed from an overtravel position. Such device shall not release the brake, or brakes, holding the overtravelled conveyance or counterbalance until sufficient drive motor torque has been developed to assure movement of the conveyance or counterbalance in the correct direction only.

# Signaling
§ 57.19090
Dual signaling systems.
There shall be at least two effective approved methods of signaling between each of the shaft stations and the hoist room, one of which shall be a telephone or speaking tube.
§ 57.19091
Signaling instructions to hoist operator.
Hoist operators shall accept hoisting instructions only by the regular signaling system unless it is out of order. In such an event, and during other emergencies, the hoist operator shall accept instructions to direct movement of the conveyances only from authorized persons.
§ 57.19092
Signaling from conveyances.
A method shall be provided to signal the hoist operator from cages or other conveyances at any point in the shaft.
§ 57.19093
Standard signal code.
A standard code of hoisting signals shall be adopted and used at each mine.
The movement of a shaft conveyance on a “one bell” signal is prohibited.
§ 57.19094
Posting signal code.
A legible signal code shall be posted prominently in the hoist house within easy view of the hoistmen, and at each place where signals are given or received.
§ 57.19095
Location of signal devices.
Hoisting signal devices shall be positioned within easy reach of persons on the shaft bottom or constantly attended by a person stationed on the lower deck of the sinking platform.
§ 57.19096
Familiarity with signal code.
Any person responsible for receiving or giving signals for cages, skips, and mantrips when persons or materials are being transported shall be familiar with the posted signaling code.

# Shafts
§ 57.19100
Shaft landing gates.
Shaft landings shall be equipped with substantial safety gates so constructed that materials will not go through or under them; gates shall be closed except when loading or unloading shaft conveyances.
§ 57.19101
Stopblocks and derail switches.
Positive stopblocks or a derail switch shall be installed on all tracks leading to a shaft collar or landing.
§ 57.19102
Shaft guides.
A means shall be provided to guide the movement of a shaft conveyance.
§ 57.19103
Dumping facilities and loading pockets.
Dumping facilities and loading pockets shall be constructed so as to minimize spillage into the shaft.
§ 57.19104
Clearance at shaft stations.
Suitable clearance at shaft stations shall be provided to allow safe movement of persons, equipment and materials.
§ 57.19105
Landings with more than one shaft entrance.
A safe means of passage around open shaft compartments shall be provided on landings with more than one entrance to the shaft.
§ 57.19106
Shaft sets.
Shaft sets shall be kept in good repair and clean of hazardous material.
§ 57.19107
Precautions for work in compartment affected by hoisting operation.
Hoistmen shall be informed when persons are working in a compartment affected by that hoisting operation and a “Men Working in Shaft” sign shall be posted at the hoist.
§ 57.19108
Posting warning signs during shaft work.
When persons are working in a shaft “Men Working in Shaft” signs shall be posted at all devices controlling hoisting operations that may endanger such persons.
§ 57.19109
Shaft inspection and repair.
Shaft inspection and repair work in vertical shafts shall be performed from substantial platforms equipped with bonnets or equivalent overhead protection.
§ 57.19110
Overhead protection for shaft deepening work.
A substantial bulkhead or equivalent protection shall be provided above persons at work deepening a shaft.
§ 57.19111
Shaft-sinking ladders.
Substantial fixed ladders shall be provided from the collar to as near the shaft bottom as practical during shaft-sinking operations, or an escape hoist powered by an emergency power source shall be provided. When persons are on the shaft bottom, a chain ladder, wire rope ladder, or other extension ladders shall be used from the fixed ladder or lower limit of the escape hoist to the shaft bottom.

# Inspection and Maintenance
§ 57.19120
Procedures for inspection, testing, and maintenance.
A systematic procedure of inspection, testing and maintenance of shaft and hoisting equipment shall be developed and followed. If it is found or suspected that any part is not functioning properly, the hoist shall not be used until the malfunction has been located and repaired or adjustments have been made.
§ 57.19121
Recordkeeping.
At the time of completion, the person performing inspections, tests, and maintenance of shafts and hoisting equipment required in standard 57.19120 shall certify, by signature and date, that they have been done. A record of any part that is not functioning properly shall be made and dated. Certifications and records shall be retained for one year.
(Sec. 101, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.19122
Replacement parts.
Parts used to repair hoists shall have properties that will ensure the proper and safe function of the hoist.
§ 57.19129
Examinations and tests at beginning of shift.
Hoistmen shall examine their hoists and shall test overtravel, deadman controls, position indicators, and braking mechanisms at the beginning of each shift.
§ 57.19130
Conveyance shaft test.
Before hoisting persons and to assure that the hoisting compartments are clear of obstructions, empty hoist conveyances shall be operated at least one round trip after—
(a) Any hoist or shaft repairs or related equipment repairs that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance;
(b) Any oversize or overweight material or equipment trips that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance;
(c) Blasting in or near the shaft that might restrict or obstruct conveyance clearance; or
(d) Remaining idle for one shift or longer.
§ 57.19131
Hoist conveyance connections.
Hoist conveyance connections shall be inspected at least once during any 24-hour period that the conveyance is used for hoisting persons.
§ 57.19132
Safety catches.
(a) A performance drop test of hoist conveyance safety catches shall be made at the time of installation, or prior to installation in a mockup of the actual installation. The test shall be certified to in writing by the manufacturer or by a registered professional engineer performing the test.
(b) After installation and before use, and at the beginning of any seven day period during which the conveyance is to be used, the conveyance shall be suitably rested and the hoist rope slackened to test for the unrestricted functioning of the safety catches and their activating mechanisms.
(c) The safety catches shall be inspected by a competent person at the beginning of any 24-hour period that the conveyance is to be used.
§ 57.19133
Shaft.
Shafts that have not been inspected within the past 7 days shall not be used until an inspection has been conducted by a competent person.
§ 57.19134
Sheaves.
Sheaves in operating shafts shall be inspected weekly and kept properly lubricated.
§ 57.19135
Rollers in inclined shafts.
Rollers used in operating inclined shafts shall be lubricated, properly aligned, and kept in good repair.

# Subpart S—Miscellaneous
§ 57.20001
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.
Intoxicating beverages and narcotics shall not be permitted or used in or
around mines. Persons under the influence of alcohol or narcotics shall not be permitted on the job.
§ 57.20002
Potable water.
(a) An adequate supply of potable drinking water shall be provided at all active working areas.
(b) The common drinking cup and containers from which drinking water must be dipped or poured are prohibited.
(c) Where single service cups are supplied, a sanitary container for unused cups and a receptacle for used cups shall be provided.
(d) When water is cooled by ice, the ice shall either be of potable water or shall not come in contact with the water.
(e) Potable water outlets shall be posted.
(f) Potable water systems shall be constructed to prevent backflow or backsiphonage of non-potable water.
§ 57.20003
Housekeeping.
At all mining operations—
(a) Workplaces, passageways, storerooms, and service rooms shall be kept clean and orderly;
(b) The floor of every workplace shall be maintained in a clean and, so far as possible, dry condition. Where wet processes are used, drainage shall be maintained, and false floors, platforms, mats, or other dry standing places shall be provided where practicable; and
(c) Every floor, working place, and passageway shall be kept free from protruding nails, splinters, holes, or loose boards, as practicable.
§ 57.20005
Carbon tetrachloride.
Carbon tetrachloride shall not be used.
§ 57.20008
Toilet facilities.
(a) Toilet facilities shall be provided at locations that are compatible with the mine operations and that are readily accessible to mine personnel.
(b) The facilities shall be kept clean and sanitary. Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex except where toilet rooms will be occupied by no more than one person at a time and can be locked from the inside.
§ 57.20009
Tests for explosive dusts.
Dusts suspected of being explosive shall be tested for explosibility. If tests prove positive, appropriate control measures shall be taken.
§ 57.20010
Retaining dams.
If failure of a water or silt retaining dam will create a hazard, it shall be of substantial construction and inspected at regular intervals.
§ 57.20011
Barricades and warning signs.
Areas where health or safety hazards exist that are not immediately obvious to employees shall be barricaded, or warning signs shall be posted at all approaches. Warning signs shall be readily visible, legible, and display the nature of the hazard and any protective action required.
§ 57.20013
Waste receptacles.
Receptacles with covers shall be provided at suitable locations and used for the disposal of waste food and associated materials. They shall be emptied frequently and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
§ 57.20014
Prohibited areas for food and beverages.
No person shall be allowed to consume or store food or beverages in a toilet room or in any area exposed to a toxic material.
§ 57.20020
Unattended mine openings.
Access to unattended mine openings shall be restricted by gates or doors, or the openings shall be fenced and posted.
§ 57.20021
Abandoned mine openings.
Upon abandonment of a mine, the owner or operator shall effectively close or fence off all surface openings down which persons could fall or through which persons could enter. Upon or near all such safeguards, trespass warnings and appropriate danger notices shall be posted.
§ 57.20031
Blasting underground in hazardous areas.
In underground areas where dangerous accumulations of water, gas,
mud, or fire atmosphere could be encountered, persons shall be removed to safe places before blasting.
§ 57.20032
Two-way communication equipment for underground operations.
Telephones or other two-way communication equipment with instructions for their use shall be provided for communication from underground operations to the surface.

# Subpart T—Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811.

# Source:
52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 57.22001
Scope.
This subpart T sets forth procedures and safety standards for each metal and nonmetal underground mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. All metal and nonmetal mines will be placed into one of the categories or subcategories defined in this subpart. Mines shall operate in accordance with the applicable standards in this subpart to protect persons against the hazards of methane gas and dust containing volatile matter. The standards in this subpart apply to underground mines as well as surface mills at Subcategory I-C mines. These mines are also required to be operated in accordance with the other applicable health and safety standards published in 30 CFR part 57.
§ 57.22002
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart:
Competent person.
A person designated by the mine operator who has sufficient experience and training to perform the assigned task.
Explosive material.
Explosives, blasting agents, and detonators. Explosives are substances classified as explosives by the Department of Transportation in §§ 173.53, 173.88, and 173.100 of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations (1986 Edition). Blasting agents are substances classified as blasting agents by the Department of Transportation in § 173.114(a) of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations (1986 Edition). Detonators are devices containing a detonating charge used to initiate explosives. Examples of detonators are blasting caps, electric or non-electric instantaneous or delay blasting caps and delay connectors. [A copy of Title 49 is available at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration].
Substantial construction.
Construction of such strength, material, and workmanship that the object will withstand air blasts, blasting shock, ground movement, pressure differentials, wear, and usage which may be expected to occur in the mining environment.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 69 FR 38842, June 29, 2004]

# Mine Categorization
§ 57.22003
Mine category or subcategory.
(a) All underground mines, and the surface mills of Subcategory I-C mines (gilsonite), shall be placed into one of the following categories or subcategories to protect persons against the hazards of methane and dusts containing volatile matter. Categories and subcategories are defined as follows:
(1)
Category I
applies to mines that operate within a combustible ore body and either liberate methane or have the potential to liberate methane based on the history of the mine or the geological area in which the mine is located. Category I is divided into Subcategories I-A, I-B, and I-C as follows:
(i)
Subcategory I-A
applies to mines that operate within a combustible ore body and liberate methane and in which—
(A) A concentration of 0.25 percent or more methane has been detected in the mine atmosphere and confirmed by laboratory analysis; or
(B) An ignition of methane has occurred.
(ii)
Subcategory I-B
applies to mines that operate within a combustible ore body and have the potential to liberate methane based on the history of the
mine or geological area in which the mine is located and in which—
(A) A concentration of 0.25 percent or more methane has not been detected in the mine atmosphere; and
(B) An ignition of methane has not occurred.
(iii)
Subcategory I-C
applies to mines in which the product extracted is combustible and the dust has a volatile matter content of 60 percent or more measured on a moisture free basis
1
.
1
Measured by the American Society for Testing and Materials, ASTM D 3175-82, Standard Test Method for Volatile Matter in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke. (This document is available at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration).
(2)
Category II
applies to domal salt mines where the history of the mine or geological area indicates the occurrence of or the potential for an outburst. Category II is divided into Subcategories II-A and II-B as follows:
(i)
Subcategory II-A
applies to domal salt mines where an outburst reportable under § 57.22004(c)(1) has occurred.
(ii)
Subcategory II-B
applies to domal salt mines where an outburst reportable under § 57.22004(c)(1) has not occurred, but which have the potential for an outburst based on the history of the mine or geological area in which the mine is located.
(3)
Category III
applies to mines in which noncombustible ore is extracted and which liberate a concentration of methane that is explosive, or is capable of forming explosive mixtures with air, or have the potential to do so based on the history of the mine or the geological area in which the mine is located. The concentration of methane in such mines is explosive or is capable of forming explosive mixtures if mixed with air as illustrated by Table 1 below, entitled “Relation Between Quantitative Composition and Explosibility of Mixtures of Methane and Air”.
EC21OC91.048
(4)
Category IV
applies to mines in which noncombustible ore is extracted and which liberate a concentration of methane that is not explosive nor capable of forming explosive mixtures with air based on the history of the mine or the geological area in which the mine is located. The concentration of methane in such mines is not explosive nor capable of forming explosive mixtures if mixed with air as illustrated by Table 1 above, entitled “Relation Between Quantitative Composition and Explosibility of Mixtures of Methane and Air”.
(5)
Category V
applies to petroleum mines. Category V is divided into Subcategories V-A and V-B as follows:
(i)
Subcategory V-A
applies to petroleum mines that operate entirely or partially within an oil reservoir; and all other petroleum mines in which—
(A) A concentration of 0.25 percent or more methane has been detected in the mine atmosphere and confirmed by laboratory analysis; or
(B) An ignition of methane has occurred.
(ii)
Subcategory V-B
applies to petroleum mines that operate outside of and
drill into an oil reservoir and in which—
(A) A concentration of 0.25 percent or more methane has not been detected in the mine atmosphere; and
(B) An ignition of methane has not occurred.
(6)
Category VI
applies to mines in which the presence of methane has not been established and are not included in another category or subcategory.
(b) Category or subcategory placement or change in placement shall include consideration of the following:
(1) The history and geology of the mine or of the geological area in which the mine is located;
(2) The ore body and host rock;
(3) The character, amount, duration, origin, and nature of methane emission and the presence of explosive dust and inert gases; and
(4) Whether or not conditions encountered during primary or access development are transient or permanent.
(c)(1) Gas samples for the purpose of category or subcategory placement or change in placement, and for determining action levels, shall be taken in the mine atmosphere. Gas samples taken to determine the nature and extent of an occurrence under § 57.22004 (c) and (d) may be taken at any location, including the source, point of entry and the mine atmosphere.
(2) Tests for methane shall be made with hand-held methanometers, methane monitors, atmospheric monitoring systems, devices used to provide laboratory analysis of samples, or with other equally effective sampling devices. However, only methane samples that have been confirmed by laboratory analysis shall be used for category or subcategory placement or change in placement.
(d) Each mine and mill shall be required to operate in accordance with the safety standards applicable to its particular category or subcategory.
§ 57.22004
Category placement or change in placement.
The Administrator for Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health (Administrator) shall be responsible for category and subcategory placement, change in placement, and notification of placement of mines.
(a) The Administrator's proposed notice of placement or change in placement shall be sent to the mine operator and the appropriate representative of miners and shall include—
(1) The category or subcategory;
(2) The reasons for placement or change in placement;
(3) The data considered;
(4) The applicable standards and a time schedule for the mine operator to achieve compliance;
(5) Whether or not conditions encountered during primary or access development are transient or permanent; and
(6) Notification of the right to appeal the Administrator's determination under § 57.22005.
(b) The operator or the representative of the miners shall have the right to request of the Administrator reassignment of the mine to a more appropriate category or subcategory if, based on operating experience, the conditions set forth in § 57.22003(b) indicate that the hazards of methane exist under circumstances more appropriately governed by a different category or subcategory. In response to such a request, the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section shall apply. While the request for category or subcategory reassignment is pending, the mine shall continue to operate under the standards for the category or subcategory to which originally assigned.
(c) MSHA shall be notified as soon as possible if any of the following events occur:
(1) An outburst that results in 0.25 percent or more methane in the mine atmosphere;
(2) A blowout that results in 0.25 percent or more methane in the mine atmosphere;
(3) An ignition of methane; or
(4) Air sample results that indicate 0.25 percent or more methane in the mine atmosphere of a Subcategory I-B, I-C, II-B, V-B or Category VI mine.
(d) The Administrator shall promptly appoint an MSHA committee to investigate occurrences reported in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section or requests filed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Upon completion of an investigation, the committee shall make a written report
of the findings. These investigations may include an evaluation of the following:
(1) Source, nature, and extent of occurrences;
(2) Conditions under which the incident occurred;
(3) Samples and tests;
(4) Physical conditions at the time of the occurrence;
(5) Charts, logs, and records related to the occurrence;
(6) Whether the occurrence is isolated, continuous, or could recur;
(7) Conditions indicating that the hazards of methane no longer exist or exist under circumstances more appropriately governed by a different category or subcategory;
(8) The geology of the mine and the geological area in which the mine is located; and
(9) Statements by witnesses, company officials, employees, and other persons having knowledge of the mine or the occurrence. Representatives of the mine operator, the miners and the appropriate State agency may participate in the investigation.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987; 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.22005
Notice and appeal of placement or change in placement.
(a) The Administrator's determination of category or subcategory placement or change in placement shall become final upon the 30th day after it is served on the mine operator and representative of miners, unless a request for a hearing has been filed. Service of the Administrator's determination is complete upon mailing by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b) The mine operator or representative of miners may obtain review of the Administrator's determination by filing a request for a hearing with the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, Mine Safety and Health Administration, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452 within 30 days of the Administrator's determination. Service of a request for hearing is completed upon mailing by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. Requests for a hearing shall be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) Name, address, and mine identification number;
(2) A concise statement of the reason why the Administrator's determination is inappropriate; and
(3) A copy of the Administrator's determination.
(c) The mine operator shall post a copy of the Administrator's determination and the request for a hearing on the mine bulletin board, and shall maintain the posting until the placement becomes final.
(d) Promptly after receipt of the request for a hearing, the Assistant Secretary shall refer to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, United States Department of Labor, the following:
(1) The request for a hearing;
(2) The Administrator's determination; and
(3) All information upon which the Administrator's determination was based.
(e) The hearing shall be regulated and conducted by an Administrative Law Judge in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, entitled, “Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges.” Once the Administrative Law Judge has made an initial decision and served each party, the decision shall be final on the 30th day after service, unless discretionary review is undertaken by the Assistant Secretary or an appeal is filed by the mine operator or representative of the miners under paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Within 30 days after service of an initial decision of an Administrative Law Judge, the Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health may undertake a discretionary review of the initial decision, or the mine operator, or representative of the miners may appeal the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge to the Assistant Secretary.
(1) The Assistant Secretary shall give notice of discretionary review to the mine operator and representative of the miners. The mine operator or representative of the miners shall give notice of an appeal to the other party. The notice shall specify the suggested
changes and refer to the specific findings of fact, conclusions of law, and terms of the initial decision to be reviewed or appealed. The Assistant Secretary shall fix a time for filing any objections to the suggested changes and supporting reasons.
(2) The Assistant Secretary shall promptly notify the Administrative Law Judge of a discretionary review or an appeal. The entire record of the proceedings shall be transmitted to the Assistant Secretary for review.
(3) The Assistant Secretary shall make the final decision based upon consideration of the record of the proceedings. The final decision may affirm, modify, or set aside in whole or in part, the findings and conclusions contained in the initial decision. A statement of reasons for the action taken shall be included in the final decision. The final decision shall be served upon the mine operator and representative of the miners.
(g) Unless a decision by the Administrator for Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health, or the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge, is appealed within 30 days, it becomes final, and is not subject to judicial review for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 704. Only a decision by the Assistant Secretary shall be considered final Agency action for purposes of judicial review. Any such appeal must be filed in the appropriate circuit of the United States Court of Appeal.
(h) While a final decision of category placement is pending the following procedures shall apply:
(1) Where a mine has been classified as gassy prior to the effective date of these standards, existing gassy mines standards 30 CFR 57.21001 through 57.21101 (1986 Edition) shall continue to be applicable until placement is final.
(2) Where a mine has not been classified as gassy prior to the effective date of these standards and it is placed in Categories I through V, the mine shall comply with Category VI standards (§§ 57.22231, 57.22232, 57.22236, and 57.22238) until placement is final.
(3) Where a mine has been classified in Categories I through V after the effective date of these standards and category reassignment is being considered, the mine shall comply with the standards applicable to the category to which presently assigned until category placement is final.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987; 52 FR 27903, July 24, 1987, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52988, Sept. 2, 2015]

# Fire Prevention and Control

# Note:
The Category or Subcategory applicability of each standard appears in the parentheses of each standard's title line.
§ 57.22101
Smoking (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Persons shall not smoke or carry smoking materials, matches, or lighters underground. The operator shall institute a reasonable program to assure that persons entering the mine do not carry such items.
§ 57.22102
Smoking (I-C mines).
(a) Persons shall not smoke or carry smoking materials, matches, or lighters underground or within 50 feet of a mine opening. The operator shall institute a reasonable program to assure that persons entering the mine do not carry such items.
(b) Smoking is prohibited in surface milling facilities except in designated, dust-free smoking areas.
§ 57.22103
Open flames (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Open flames shall not be permitted underground except for welding, cutting, and other maintenance operations, and for igniting underground retorts in a Subcategory I-A mine. When using open flames in other than fresh air, or in places where methane may enter the air current, tests for methane shall be conducted by a competent person before work is started and every 10 minutes until the job is completed. Continuous methane monitors with audible alarms may be used after the initial test has been conducted as an alternative to the ten-minute interval testing requirement. Open flames shall not be used in atmospheres containing 0.5 percent or more methane.
§ 57.22104
Open flames (I-C mines).
(a) Open flames, including cutting and welding, shall not be used underground.
(b) Welding and cutting shall not be done within 50 feet of a mine opening unless all persons are out of the mine and the mine opening is covered. The cover shall be a substantial material, such as metal or wood, topped with a layer of wetted material to prevent sparks and flames from entering the mine opening.
§ 57.22105
Smoking and open flames (IV mines).
Smoking or open flames shall not be permitted in a face or raise, or during release of gas from a borehole until tests have been conducted in accordance with § 57.22226 and the methane level has been determined to be below 0.5 percent.
§ 57.22106
Dust containing volatile matter (I-C mines).
Dust containing volatile matter shall not be allowed to accumulate on the surfaces of enclosures, facilities, or equipment used in surface milling in amounts that, if suspended in air, would become an explosive mixture. An explosive mixture of dust containing volatile matter is 0.02 ounce or more per cubic foot of air.

# Ventilation
§ 57.22201
Mechanical ventilation (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).
All mines shall be ventilated mechanically.
§ 57.22202
Main fans (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
(a) Main fans shall be—
(1) Installed on the surface in noncombustible housings provided with noncombustible air ducts;
(2) Except in Subcategory I-A mines, provided with an automatic signal device to give an alarm when the fan stops. The signal device shall be located so that it can be seen or heard by a person designated by the mine operator.
(b) Fan installations shall be—
(1) Offset so that the fan and its associated components are not in direct line with possible explosive forces;
(2) Equipped with explosion-doors, a weak-wall, or other equivalent devices located to relieve the pressure that would be created by an explosion underground. The area of the doors or weak-wall shall be at least equivalent to the average cross-sectional area of the airway.
(c) (1) All main fan-related electrical equipment and cables located within or exposed to the forward or reverse airstream shall be approved by MSHA under the appliable requirements of 30 CFR part 18;
(2) Drive belts and nonmetallic fan blades shall be constructed of static-conducting material; and
(3) Aluminum alloy fan blades shall not contain more than 0.5 percent magnesium. [Paragraph (c)(3) of this section does not apply to Subcategory I-C mines].
(d) When an internal combustion engine is used to power a main fan or as standby power, the engine shall be—
(1) Installed in a noncombustible housing;
(2) Protected from a possible fuel supply fire or explosion; and
(3) Located out of direct line with the forward and reverse airstream provided by the fan. Engine exhaust gases shall be vented to the atmosphere so that exhaust cannot contaminate mine intake air.
(e) For Subcategory I-A mines only: Main exhaust fans shall be equipped with methane monitors to give an alarm when methane in the return air reaches 0.5 percent. The alarm shall be located so that it can be seen or heard by a person designated by the mine operator.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987]
§ 57.22203
Main fan operation (I-C mines).
Main fans shall be operated continuously while ore production is in progress.
§ 57.22204
Main fan operation and inspection (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Main fans shall be—
(a) Provided with a pressure-recording system; and
(b) Inspected daily while operating if persons are underground. Certification
of inspections shall be made by signature and date. Certifications and pressure recordings shall be retained for at least one year and made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987; 60 FR 33722, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.22205
Doors on main fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
In mines ventilated by multiple main fans, each main fan installation shall be equipped with noncombustible doors. Such doors shall automatically close to prevent air reversal through the fan. The doors shall be located so that they are not in direct line with explosive forces which could come out of the mine.
§ 57.22206
Main ventilation failure (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) When there has been a main ventilation failure, such as stoppage of main fans or failure of other components of the main ventilation system, tests for methane shall be conducted in affected active workings until normal air flow has resumed.
(b) If a total failure of ventilation occurs while all persons are out of the mine and the failure lasts for more than 30 minutes, only competent persons shall be allowed underground to examine the mine or to make necessary ventilation changes. Other persons may reenter the mine after the main fans have been operational for at least 30 minutes, or after the mine atmosphere has been tested and contains less than 1.0 percent methane. Persons other than examiners shall not reenter a Subcategory II-A mine until the methane level is less than 0.5 percent.
§ 57.22207
Booster fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) Booster fans shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR part 18, and be—
(1) Provided with an automatic signal device located so that it can be seen or heard by a person designated by the mine operator to give an alarm when the fan stops or when methane reaches the following levels:
(i) 1.0 percent at the fan in Subcategory I-A, Category III, and Subcategory V-A mines; and
(ii) 0.5 percent at the fan in Subcategory II-A mines.
(2) Equipped with a device that automatically deenergizes power in affected workings should the fan stop; and
(3) Equipped with starting and stopping controls located at the fan and at another accessible remote location.
(b) Booster fan installations, except for booster fans installed in ducts, shall be—
(1) Provided with doors which open automatically when all fans in the installation stop; and
(2) Provided with an air lock when passage through the fan bulkhead is necessary.
§ 57.22208
Auxiliary fans (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) Auxiliary fans, except fans used in shops and other areas which have been so designed that methane cannot enter the airway, shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR part 18, and be operated so that recirculation is minimized. Auxiliary fans shall not be used to ventilate work places during the interruption of normal mine ventilation.
(b) Tests for methane shall be made at auxiliary fans before they are started.
§ 57.22209
Auxiliary fans (I-C mines).
Electric auxiliary fans shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR part 18. Tests for methane shall be made at electric auxiliary fans before they are started. Such fans shall not be operated when air passing over or through them contains 0.5 percent or more methane.
§ 57.22210
In-line filters (I-C mines).
Filters or separators shall be installed on air-lift fan systems to prevent explosive concentrations of dust from passing through the fan.
§ 57.22211
Air flow (I-A mines).
The average air velocity in the last open crosscut in pairs or sets of developing entries, or through other ventilation openings nearest the face, shall be
at least 40 feet per minute. The velocity of air ventilating each face at a work place shall be at least 20 feet per minute.
§ 57.22212
Air flow (I-C, II-A, and V-A mines).
Air flow across each working face shall be sufficient to carry away any accumulation of methane, smoke, fumes, and dust.
§ 57.22213
Air flow (III mines).
The quantity of air coursed through the last open crosscut in pairs or sets of entries, or through other ventilation openings nearest the face, shall be at least 6,000 cubic feet per minute, or 9,000 cubic feet per minute in longwall and continuous miner sections. The quantity of air across each face at a work place shall be at least 2,000 cubic feet per minute.
§ 57.22214
Changes in ventilation (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) Changes in ventilation which affect the main air current or any split thereof and which adversely affect the safety of persons in the mine shall be made only when the mine is idle.
(b) Only persons engaged in making such ventilation changes shall be permitted in the mine during changes.
(c) Power shall be deenergized in affected areas prior to making ventilation changes, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18. Power shall not be restored until the results of the change have been determined and a competent person has examined affected working places for methane.
§ 57.22215
Separation of intake and return air (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Main intake and return air currents shall be coursed through separate mine openings and shall be separated throughout the mine, except—
(a) Where multiple shafts are used for ventilation and a single shaft contains a curtain wall or partition for separation of air currents. Such wall or partition shall be constructed of reinforced concrete or other noncombustible equivalent, and provided with pressure-relief devices.
(b) During development of openings to the surface—
(1) Ventilation tubing approved by MSHA in accordance with 30 CFR part 7 or previously issued a BC or VT acceptance number by the MSHA Approval and Certification Center may be used for separation of main air currents in the same opening. Flexible ventilation tubing shall not exceed 250 feet in length.
(2) Only development related to making a primary ventilation connection may be performed beyond 250 feet of the shaft.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 30508, July 20, 1989]
§ 57.22216
Separation of intake and return air (I-C mines).
The main intake and return air currents in single shafts shall be separated by ventilation tubing, curtain walls, or partitions. Ventilation tubing shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Curtain walls or partitions shall be constructed of reinforced concrete or other noncombustible equivalent, and provided with pressure-relief devices.
§ 57.22217
Seals and stoppings (I-A, I-B, and I-C mines).
All seals, and those stoppings that separate main intake from main return airways, shall be of substantial construction and constructed of noncombustible materials, except that stoppings constructed of brattice materials may be used in face areas.
§ 57.22218
Seals and stoppings (III, V-A, and V-B mines).
(a) All seals, and those stoppings that separate main intake from main return airways, shall be of substantial construction, except that stoppings constructed of brattice materials may be used in face areas.
(b) Exposed surfaces on the intake side of stoppings constructed of combustible materials or foam-type blocks shall be coated with at least one inch of construction plaster containing perlite and gypsum; at least one inch of expanded vermiculite, Portland cement and limestone; or other coatings with
equivalent fire resistance. Stoppings constructed to phenolic foam blocks at least 12 inches thick need not be coated for fire resistance. All foam-type blocks used for stopping construction shall be solid.
(c) Exposed surfaces on the fresh air side of seals constructed of combustible materials shall be coated with at least one inch of construction plaster containing perlite and gypsum; at least one inch of expanded vermiculite, Portland cement and limestone; or other coatings with equivalent fire resistance. Foam-type blocks shall not be used for seals.
§ 57.22219
Seals and stoppings (II-A mines).
(a) Exposed surfaces on the intake side of stoppings constructed of combustible materials, except brattice, shall be coated with at least one inch of construction plaster containing perlite and gypsum; at least one inch of expanded vermiculite, Portland cement and limestone; or other coatings with equivalent fire resistance.
(b) Seals shall be of substantial construction. Exposed surfaces on the fresh air side of seals constructed of combustible materials shall be coated with at least one inch of construction plaster containing perlite and gypsum; at least one inch of expanded vermiculite, Portland cement and limestone; or other coatings with equivalent fire resistance. Foam-type blocks shall not be used for seals.
§ 57.22220
Air passing unsealed areas (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Air that has passed by or through unsealed abandoned or unsealed inactive areas and contains 0.25 percent or more methane shall—
(a) Be coursed directly to a return airway;
(b) Be tested daily for methane by a competent person; and
(c) Not be used to ventilate work places.
§ 57.22221
Overcast and undercast construction (I-A, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
Overcasts and undercasts shall be—
(a) Of substantial construction;
(b)(1) Constructed of noncombustible materials; or
(2) Where constructed of combustible materials, the outside surfaces shall be coated with at least one inch of construction plaster containing perlite and gypsum; at least one inch of expanded vermiculite, Portland cement and limestone; or other coatings with equivalent fire resistance;
(c) Kept clear of obstructions.
§ 57.22222
Ventilation materials (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
Brattice cloth and ventilation tubing shall be approved by MSHA in accordance with 30 CFR part 7, or shall bear a BC or VT acceptance number issued by the MSHA Approval and Certification Center.
[54 FR 30508, July 20, 1989]
§ 57.22223
Crosscuts before abandonment (III mines).
A means of ventilating faces shall be provided before workings are abandoned in unsealed areas, unless crosscuts are provided within 30 feet of the face.
§ 57.22224
Auxiliary equipment stations (I-A and III mines).
Battery charging stations, compressor stations, pump stations, and transformer stations shall be installed in intake air at locations which are sufficiently ventilated to prevent the accumulation of methane.
§ 57.22225
Auxiliary equipment stations (I-C mines).
Battery charging stations, compressor stations, and electrical substations shall not be installed underground or within 50 feet of a mine opening.
§ 57.22226
Testing for methane (IV mines).
Tests for methane shall be conducted in the mine atmosphere by a competent person—
(a) At least once each shift prior to starting work in each face and raise; and
(b) Upon initial release of gas into the mine atmosphere from boreholes.
§ 57.22227
Approved testing devices (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).
(a) Methane monitoring devices and portable, battery-powered, self-contained devices used for measuring methane, other gases, and contaminants in mine air shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 21, 22, 23, 27, and 29. Such devices shall be maintained in accordance with manufacturers' instructions, or an equivalent maintenance and calibration procedure.
(b)(1) Flame safety lamps shall not be used to test for methane except as supplementary devices.
(2) Flame safety lamps shall not be used in Subcategory I-C mines.
(c)(1) If electrically powered, remote sensing devices are used, that portion of the instrument located in return air or other places where combustible gases may be present shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 22, 23, 27, and 29.
(2) If air samples are delivered to remote analytical devices through sampling tubes, such tubes shall be provided with in-line flame arrestors. Pumping equipment and analytical instruments shall be located in intake air.
§ 57.22228
Preshift examination (I-A, I-C, II-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) Preshift examinations shall be conducted within three hours prior to the start of the shift for which the examination is being made.
(b) Prior to the beginning of a shift following an idle shift, a competent person shall test the mine atmosphere for methane at all work places before persons other than examiners enter the mine.
(c) When one shift immediately follows another, a competent person shall test the mine atmosphere at each active working face for methane before work is started on that shift.
(d) A competent person shall test the mine atmosphere at each face blasted before work is started.
(e) Except in Subcategory I-C or Category III mines, vehicles used for transportation when examining the mine shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 9615, Mar. 24, 1988]
§ 57.22229
Weekly testing (I-A, III, and V-A mines).
(a) The mine atmosphere shall be tested for methane and carbon monoxide at least once every seven days by a competent person or an atmospheric monitoring system, or a combination of the two. Such testing shall be done at the following locations:
(1) The return of each split where it enters the main return;
(2) Adjacent to retreat areas, if accessible;
(3) At least one seal of each sealed area, if accessible;
(4) Main returns;
(5) At least one entry of each intake and return;
(6) Idle workings; and
(7) Return air from unsealed abandoned workings.
(b) The volume of air (velocity in Subcategory I-A mines) shall be measured at least once every seven days by a competent person. Such measurement shall be done at the following locations:
(1) Entering main intakes;
(2) Leaving main returns;
(3) Entering each main split;
(4) Returning from each main split; and
(5) In the last open crosscuts or other ventilation openings nearest the active faces where the air enters the return.
(c) Where such examinations disclose hazardous conditions, affected persons shall be informed and corrective action shall be taken.
(d) Certification of examinations shall be made by signature and date. Certifications shall be retained for at least one year and made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987]
§ 57.22230
Weekly testing (II-A mines).
(a) The mine atmosphere shall be tested for methane at least once every seven days by a competent person or an atmospheric monitoring system, or a
combination of the two. Such testing shall be done at the following locations:
(1) Active mining faces and benches;
(2) Main returns;
(3) Returns from idle workings;
(4) Returns from abandoned workings; and
(5) Seals.
(b) Where such examinations disclose hazardous conditions, affected persons shall be informed and corrective action shall be taken.
(c) Certification of examinations shall be made by signature and date. Certifications shall be kept for at least one year and made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.22231
Actions at 0.25 percent methane (I-B, II-B, V-B, and VI mines).
If methane reaches 0.25 percent in the mine atmosphere, changes shall be made to improve ventilation, and MSHA shall be notified immediately.
§ 57.22232
Actions at 0.5 percent methane (I-B, II-A, II-B, IV, V-B, and VI mines).
If methane reaches 0.5 percent in the mine atmosphere, ventilation changes shall be made to reduce the level of methane. Until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent, electrical power shall be deenergized in affected areas, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18. Diesel equipment shall be shut off or immediately removed from the area and no other work shall be permitted in affected areas.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987; 52 FR 27903, July 24, 1987]
§ 57.22233
Actions at 0.5 percent methane (I-C mines).
If methane reaches 0.5 percent in the mine atmosphere, ventilation changes shall be made to reduce the level of methane. Until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent, no other work shall be permitted in affected areas.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987; 52 FR 27903, July 24, 1987]
§ 57.22234
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (I-A, I-B, III, V-A, and V-B mines).
(a) If methane reaches 1.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, ventilation changes shall be made to reduce the methane. Until such changes are achieved—
(1) All persons other than competent persons necessary to make the ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from affected areas;
(2) Electrical power shall be deenergized in affected areas, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18; and
(3) Diesel equipment shall be shut off or immediately removed from the area.
(b) If methane reaches 1.0 percent at a main exhaust fan, electrical power underground shall be deenergized, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, and all persons shall be withdrawn from the mine.
(c) If methane reaches 1.0 percent at a work place and there has been a failure of the main ventilation system, all persons shall be withdrawn from the mine.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 9615, Mar. 24, 1988]
§ 57.22235
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (I-C, II-A, II-B, and IV mines).
(a) If methane reaches 1.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, all persons other than competent persons necessary to make ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from affected areas until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent.
(b) If methane reaches 1.0 percent at a work place and there has been a failure of the main ventilation system, all persons shall be withdrawn from the mine.
§ 57.22236
Actions at 1.0 percent methane (VI mines).
If methane reaches 1.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, all persons other than competent persons necessary to make ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from affected areas until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent.
§ 57.22237
Actions at 2.0 to 2.5 percent methane in bleeder systems (I-A and III mines).
If methane reaches 2.0 percent in bleeder systems at the point where a bleeder split enters a main return split, mining shall not be permitted on ventilation splits affected by the bleeder system. If methane has not been reduced to less than 2.0 percent within 30 minutes, or if methane levels reach 2.5 percent, all persons other than competent persons necessary to take corrective action shall be withdrawn from affected areas.
§ 57.22238
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (I-B, II-B, V-B, and VI mines).
If methane reaches 2.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, all persons other than competent persons necessary to make ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from the mine until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent.
§ 57.22239
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (IV mines).
If methane reaches 2.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, all persons other than competent persons necessary to make ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from the mine until methane is reduced to less than 0.5 percent. MSHA shall be notified immediately.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 57.22240
Actions at 2.0 percent methane (V-A mines).
If methane reaches 2.0 percent in the mine atmosphere, all persons other than competent persons necessary to make ventilation changes shall be withdrawn from affected areas until methane is reduced to less than 1.0 percent.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987; 52 FR 27903, July 24, 1987]
§ 57.22241
Advance face boreholes (I-C mines).
(a) Boreholes shall be drilled at least 25 feet in advance of a face whenever the work place is within—
(1) 50 feet of a surveyed abandoned mine or abandoned workings which cannot be inspected; or
(2) 200 feet of an unsurveyed abandoned mine or abandoned workings which cannot be inspected.
(b) Boreholes shall be drilled in such a manner to insure that the advancing face will not accidently break into an abandoned mine or abandoned working.

# Equipment
§ 57.22301
Atmospheric monitoring systems (I-A, II-A, and V-A mines).
(a) An atmospheric monitoring system shall be installed to provide surface readings of methane concentrations in the mine atmosphere from underground locations. Components of the system shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 22, 23, and 27; or be determined by MSHA under 30 CFR part 18 to be intrinsically safe or explosion-proof.
(b) Atmospheric monitoring systems shall—
(1) Give warnings on the surface and underground when methane at any sensor reaches 0.5 percent or more, and when power to a sensor is interrupted. Warning devices shall be located so that they can be seen and heard by a person designated by the mine operator; and
(2) Automatically deenergize power in affected areas, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, when methane at any sensor reaches—
(i) 1.0 percent in a Subcategory I-A or V-A mine; or
(ii) 0.5 percent while persons are underground and 1.0 percent during blasting in a Subcategory II-A mine. Timing devices are permitted to avoid nuisance tripping for periods not to exceed 30 seconds, except during blasting or the ventilation time following a blast in a Subcategory II-A mine.
(c) Atmospheric monitoring systems shall be checked with a known mixture of methane, and calibrated if necessary at least once every 30 days. Certification of calibration tests shall be made by signature and date. Certifications of tests shall be retained for at least one year and made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary.
§ 57.22302
Approved equipment (I-A and V-A mines).
Equipment used in or beyond the last open crosscut shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36. Equipment shall not be operated in atmospheres containing 1.0 percent or more methane.
§ 57.22303
Approved equipment (I-C mines).
Only electrical equipment that is approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 28 or approved under 30 CFR part 29 contained in the 30 CFR, parts 1-199, edition, revised as of July 1, 1999, shall be used underground, except for submersible sump pumps.
[64 FR 43283, Aug. 10, 1999]
§ 57.22304
Approved equipment (II-A mines).
(a) Cutting and drilling equipment used at a face or bench shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36.
(b) While cutting or drilling is in progress, equipment not approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36 shall remain at least 100 feet from the face or bench being mined.
(c) Tests for methane shall be conducted immediately before nonapproved equipment is taken to a face or bench after blasting.
(d) Mine power transformers and stationary equipment not approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36 shall be installed in fresh air or downwind from an atmospheric methane monitor sensor.
§ 57.22305
Approved equipment (III mines).
Equipment used in or beyond the last open crosscut and equipment used in areas where methane may enter the air current, such as pillar recovery workings, longwall faces and shortwall faces, shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36. Equipment shall not be operated in atmospheres containing 1.0 percent or more methane.
§ 57.22306
Methane monitors (I-A mines).
(a) Methane monitors shall be installed on continuous mining machines, longwall mining systems, and on loading and haulage equipment used in or beyond the last open crosscut.
(b) The monitors shall—
(1) Give warning at 1.0 percent methane;
(2) Automatically deenergize electrical equipment, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, and prevent starting such equipment when methane levels reach 1.5 percent. Diesel equipment shall be shut off or immediately removed from the affected area; and
(3) Automatically deenergize electrical equipment when power to a sensor is interrupted. Diesel equipment shall not be operated if the monitor is inoperative.
(c) Sensing units of monitors shall be positioned at a location which provides for the most effective measurement of methane.
§ 57.22307
Methane monitors (II-A mines).
(a) Methane monitors shall be installed on continuous mining machines, longwall mining systems, bench and face drills, and undercutting machines used in or beyond the last open crosscut.
(b) The monitors shall—
(1) Give warning at 0.5 percent methane;
(2) Automatically deenergize electrical equipment, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, and prevent starting such equipment when methane levels reach 1.0 percent; and
(3) Automatically deenergize the equipment when power to a sensor is interrupted.
(c) Sensing units of monitors shall be positioned at a location which provides for the most effective measurement of methane.
§ 57.22308
Methane monitors (III mines).
(a) Methane monitors shall be installed on continuous mining machines and longwall mining systems.
(b) The monitors shall—
(1) Give warning at 1.0 percent methane;
(2) Automatically deenergize electrical equipment, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, and prevent starting such equipment when methane levels reach 1.5 percent; and
(3) Automatically deenergize the equipment when power to a sensor is interrupted.
(c) Sensing units of monitors shall be positioned at a location which provides for the most effective measurement of methane.
§ 57.22309
Methane monitors (V-A mines).
(a) Methane monitors shall be installed on continuous mining machines used in or beyond the last open crosscut.
(b) The monitors shall—
(1) Give warning at 1.0 percent methane.
(2) Automatically deenergize electrical equipment, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, and prevent starting of such equipment when methane levels reach 1.5 percent; and
(3) Automatically deenergize the equipment when power to a sensor is interrupted.
(c) Sensing units of monitors shall be positioned at a location which provides for the most effective measurement of methane.
§ 57.22310
Electrical cables (I-C mines).
Electrical cables used to power submersible sump pumps shall be accepted or approved by MSHA as flame resistant, or be installed in continuous metal conduit or metal pipe. The ends of such conduit or pipe shall be sealed to prevent entry of explosive gas or dust.
[57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992]
§ 57.22311
Electrical cables (II-A mines).
Only jacketed electrical cables accepted or approved by MSHA as flame resistant shall be used to supply power to distribution boxes and electrical equipment operating in face and bench areas.
[57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992]
§ 57.22312
Distribution boxes (II-A and V-A mines).
Distribution boxes containing short circuit protection for trailing cables of approved equipment shall be approved by MSHA under 30 CFR part 18.
§ 57.22313
Explosion-protection systems (I-C mines).
Pressure-relief systems including vents, or explosion suppression systems, shall be provided on explosive dust handling and processing equipment and on facilities housing such equipment. Vents shall be installed so that forces are directed away from persons should an explosion occur. The ratio of vent size to internal size of the equipment or facility shall not be less than one square foot of vent for each 80 cubic feet of volume or space.
§ 57.22314
Flow-control devices (V-A and V-B mines).
Oil recovery drill holes that penetrate oil bearing formations shall have devices to control the release of liquid hydrocarbons and hazardous gases during the drilling process. Such devices may be recovered for reuse after the formation has been depressurized or the well or borehole has been capped or connected to a collection system.
§ 57.22315
Self-contained breathing apparatus (V-A mines).
Self-contained breathing apparatus of a duration to allow for escape from the mine and sufficient in number to equip all persons underground shall be strategically located throughout the mine. Such apparatus shall be approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 and shall be maintained in accordance with manufacturers' specifications. This standard does not apply to double entry mining systems where
crosscut intervals do not exceed 250 feet.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995]

# Underground Retorts
§ 57.22401
Underground retorts (I-A and I-B mines).
(a) Retorts shall be provided with—
(1) Two independent power sources for main mine ventilation fans and those fans directly ventilating retort bulkheads, and for retort blowers, and provisions for switching promptly from one power source to the other; and
(2) An alarm system for blower malfunctions and an evacuation plan to assure safety of personnel in the event of a failure.
(b) Prior to the ignition of underground retorts, a written ignition and operation plan shall be submitted to the MSHA District Manager for the area in which the mine is located. The mine operator shall comply with all provisions of the retort plan. The retort plan shall include—
(1) Acceptable levels of combustible gases and oxygen in retort off-gases during start-up and during burning; levels at which corrective action will be initiated; levels at which personnel will be removed from the retort areas, from the mine, and from endangered surface areas; and the conditions for reentering the mine;
(2) Specification and locations of off-gas monitoring procedures and equipment;
(3) Specifications for construction of retort bulkheads and seals, and their locations;
(4) Procedures for ignition of a retort and for reignition following a shutdown; and
(5) Details of area monitoring and alarm systems for hazardous gases and actions to be taken to assure safety of personnel.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]

# Illumination
§ 57.22501
Personal electric lamps (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).
Electric lamps used for personal illumination shall be approved by MSHA under the requirements of 30 CFR parts 19 or 20, as applicable.

# Explosives
§ 57.22601
Blasting from the surface (I-A mines).
(a) All development, production, and bench rounds shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine. Persons shall not enter the mine until ventilating air has passed over the blast area and through at least one atmospheric monitoring sensor.
(b) After blasting, if the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 1.0 percent, persons may enter the mine. All places blasted shall be tested for methane by a competent person before work is started.
(c) If the monitoring system indicates the presence of 1.0 percent or more methane, persons other than examiners shall not enter the mine until the mine has been examined by a competent person and the methane content has been reduced to less than 1.0 percent.
(d) Vehicles used for transportation when examining the mine shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 9615, Mar. 24, 1988]

# Effective Date Note:
At 53 FR 9615, Mar. 24, 1988, § 57.22601 was stayed until further notice.
§ 57.22602
Blasting from the surface (I-C mines).
(a) All blasting shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine and any connecting mines.
(b) Persons shall not enter the mine until a competent person has examined the blast sites and methane concentrations are less than 0.5 percent.
§ 57.22603
Blasting from the surface (II-A mines).
(a) All development, production, and bench rounds shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine. Persons shall not enter the mine until the mine has been ventilated for at least 15 minutes and the ventilating air has passed over the blast area and through at least one atmospheric monitoring sensor.
(b) If the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent, competent persons may enter the mine to test for methane in all blast areas.
(c) If the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is 0.5 percent or more, the mine shall be ventilated and persons shall not enter the mine until the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent.
(d) If the monitoring system is inoperable or malfunctions, the mine shall be ventilated for at least 45 minutes and the mine power shall be deenergized before persons enter the mine. Only competent persons necessary to test for methane may enter the mine until the methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent.
(e) Vehicles used for transportation when examining the mine shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36. Vehicles shall not be used to examine the mine if the monitoring system is inoperable or has malfunctioned.
§ 57.22604
Blasting from the surface (II-B mines).
All development, production, and bench rounds shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine. Persons other than those designated by the mine operator to make methane tests shall not enter the mine until all blast areas have been tested for methane.
§ 57.22605
Blasting from the surface (V-A mines).
(a) All development and production blasting shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine. Persons shall not enter the mine until ventilating air has passed over the blast area and through at least one atmospheric monitoring sensor.
(b) If the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 1.0 percent, persons may enter the mine, and all places blasted shall be tested for methane by a competent person before work is started.
(c) If the monitoring system indicates the presence of 1.0 percent or more methane, persons other than examiners shall not enter the mine until the mine has been examined by a competent person and the methane level is less than 1.0 percent.
(d) Vehicles used for transportation when examining the mine shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36.
(e) This standard applies only to mines blasting within an oil reservoir.
§ 57.22606
Explosive materials and blasting units (III mines).
(a) Mine operators shall notify the appropriate MSHA District Manager of all nonapproved explosive materials and blasting units to be used prior to their use. Explosive materials used for blasting shall be approved by MSHA under 30 CFR part 15, or nonapproved explosive materials shall be evaluated and determined by the District Manager to be safe for blasting in a potentially gassy environment. The notice shall also include the millisecond-delay interval between successive shots and between the first and last shot in a round.
(b) Faces shall be examined for proper placement of holes, possible breakthrough, and water. Ammonium nitrate blasting agents shall not be loaded into wet holes.
(c) Multiple-shot blasts shall be initiated with detonators encased in copper-based alloy shells. Aluminum and aluminum alloy-cased detonators, nonelectric detonators, detonating cord, and safety fuses shall not be used. All detonators in a round shall be made by the same manufacturer.
(d) Nonapproved explosives shall be used only as primers with ammonium nitrate-fuel oil blasting agents. Such primers shall be placed at the back or bottom of the hole.
(e) Blast holes shall be stemmed with a noncombustible material in an amount to confine the explosive charge. Breakthrough holes shall be stemmed at both ends.
(f) Mudcaps or other nonapproved unconfined shots shall not be blasted.
(g)(1) Blasting units shall be approved by MSHA under 30 CFR part 25; or
(2) Blasting units used to fire more than 20 detonators shall provide at least 2 amperes through each detonator but not more than an average of 100 amperes through one ohm for 10 milliseconds, and provide the necessary current for at least the first 5 milliseconds with a cutoff not to exceed 10 milliseconds.
[52 FR 24941, July 1, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 41397, Oct. 27, 1987]
§ 57.22607
Blasting on shift (III mines).
When blasting on shift, tests for methane shall be made in the mine atmosphere by a competent person before blasting. Blasting shall not be done when 1.0 percent or more methane is present.
§ 57.22608
Secondary blasting (I-A, II-A, and V-A mines).
Prior to secondary blasting, tests for methane shall be made in the mine atmosphere at blast sites by a competent person. Secondary blasting shall not be done when 0.5 percent or more methane is present.
Pt. 57, Subpt. T, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart T of Part 57—Standard Applicability by Category or Subcategory

# Subcategory I-A
57.22101
57.22103
57.22201
57.22202
57.22204
57.22205
57.22206
57.22207
57.22208
57.22211
57.22214
57.22215
57.22217
57.22220
57.22221
57.22222
57.22224
57.22227
57.22228
57.22229
57.22234
57.22237
57.22301
57.22302
57.22306
57.22401
57.22501
57.22601
57.22608

# Subcategory I-B
57.22201
57.22202
57.22217
57.22222
57.22227
57.22231
57.22232
57.22234
57.22238
57.22401
57.22501

# Subcategory I-C
57.22102
57.22104
57.22106
57.22201
57.22202
57.22203
57.22209
57.22210
57.22212
57.22216
57.22217
57.22222
57.22225
57.22227
57.22228
57.22233
57.22235
57.22241
57.22303
57.22310
57.22313
57.22501
57.22602

# Subcategory II-A
57.22101
57.22103
57.22201
57.22202
57.22204
57.22205
57.22206
57.22207
57.22208
57.22212
57.22214
57.22215
57.22219
57.22220
57.22221
57.22222
57.22227
57.22228
57.22230
57.22232
57.22235
57.22301
57.22304
57.22307
57.22311
57.22312
57.22501
57.22603
57.22608

# Subcategory II-B
57.22201
57.22227
57.22231
57.22232
57.22235
57.22238
57.22501
57.22604

# Category III
57.22101
57.22103
57.22201
57.22202
57.22204
57.22205
57.22206
57.22207
57.22208
57.22213
57.22214
57.22215
57.22218
57.22220
57.22221
57.22222
57.22223
57.22224
57.22227
57.22228
57.22229
57.22234
57.22237
57.22305
57.22308
57.22501
57.22606
57.22607

# Category IV
57.22105
57.22201
57.22226
57.22227
57.22232
57.22235
57.22239
57.22501

# Subcategory V-A
57.22101
57.22103
57.22201
57.22202
57.22204
57.22205
57.22206
57.22207
57.22208
57.22212
57.22214
57.22215
57.22218
57.22220
57.22221
57.22222
57.22227
57.22228
57.22229
57.22234
57.22240
57.22301
57.22302
57.22309
57.22312
57.22314
57.22315
57.22501
57.22605
57.22608

# Subcategory V-B
57.22201
57.22202
57.22218
57.22222
57.22227
57.22231
57.22232
57.22234
57.22238
57.22314
57.22501

# Category VI
57.22231
57.22232
57.22236
57.22238

# Subpart U—Safety Program for Surface Mobile Equipment

# Source:
88 FR 87927, Dec. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 57.23000
Purpose and scope.
This subpart requires operators to develop, implement, and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment to reduce the number and rates of accidents, injuries, and fatalities. This subpart applies to surface mobile equipment at surface areas of underground metal and nonmetal mines. The purpose of this safety program is to promote and support a positive safety culture and improve miners' safety at the mine.
§ 57.23001
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart—
Responsible person
means a person with authority and responsibility to evaluate and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment.
Surface mobile equipment
means wheeled, skid-mounted, track-mounted, or rail-mounted equipment capable of moving or being moved, and any powered equipment that transports people, equipment, or materials, excluding belt conveyors, at surface areas of underground metal and nonmetal mines.
§ 57.23002
Written safety program.
(a) Each operator shall develop and implement a written safety program for surface mobile equipment that contains the elements in this subpart, no later than July 17, 2024.
(b) Each operator shall designate at least one responsible person to evaluate and update the written safety program, no later than July 17, 2024.
§ 57.23003
Requirements for written safety program.
(a) The operator shall develop and implement a written safety program that includes actions the operator will take to:
(1) Identify and analyze hazards and reduce the resulting risks related to the movement and the operation of surface mobile equipment;
(2) Develop and maintain procedures and schedules for routine maintenance and non-routine repairs for surface mobile equipment;
(3) Identify currently available and newly emerging feasible technologies that can enhance safety at the mine and evaluate whether to adopt them; and
(4) Train miners and other persons at the mine necessary to perform work to identify and address or avoid hazards related to surface mobile equipment.
(b) The responsible person shall evaluate and update the written safety program at least annually, or as mining conditions or practices change that may adversely affect the health and safety of miners or other persons, as accidents or injuries occur, or as surface mobile equipment changes or modifications are made.
(c) The operator shall solicit input from miners and their representatives in developing and updating the written safety program.
§ 57.23004
Record and inspection.
(a) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and provide a copy upon request.
(b) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by miners and their representatives and, at no cost, provide a copy upon request.
Pt. 58

# PART 58—HEALTH STANDARDS FOR METAL AND NONMETAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
58.1
Scope.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
58.610
Abrasive blasting.
58.620
Drill dust control.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 957, 961.

# Source:
59 FR 8327, Feb. 18, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 58.1
Scope.
The health standards in this part apply to all metal and nonmetal mines.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
§ 58.610
Abrasive blasting.
(a)
Surface and underground mines.
When an abrasive blasting operation is performed, all exposed miners shall use in accordance with 30 CFR 56.5005 or 57.5005 respirators approved for abrasive blasting by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84, or the operation shall be performed in a totally enclosed device with the miner outside the device.
(b)
Underground areas of underground mines.
Silica sand or other materials containing more than 1 percent free silica shall not be used as an abrasive substance in abrasive blasting.
[59 FR 8327, Feb. 18, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995]
§ 58.620
Drill dust control.
Holes shall be collared and drilled wet, or other effective dust control measures shall be used, when drilling non-water-soluble material. Effective dust control measures shall be used when drilling water-soluble materials.
SUBCHAPTER L [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER M—UNIFORM MINE HEALTH REGULATIONS
Pt. 60

# PART 60—RESPIRABLE CRYSTALLINE SILICA
Sec.
60.1
Scope; compliance dates.
60.2
Definitions.
60.10
Permissible exposure limit (PEL).
60.11
Methods of compliance.
60.12
Exposure monitoring.
60.13
Corrective actions.
60.14
Respiratory protection.
60.15
Medical surveillance for metal and nonmetal mines.
60.16
Recordkeeping requirements.
60.17
Severability.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h) and 957.

# Source:
89 FR 28470, Apr. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.1
Scope; compliance dates.
(a) This part sets forth mandatory health standards for each surface and underground metal, nonmetal, and coal mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended. Requirements regarding medical surveillance for metal and nonmetal mines are also included.
(b) The compliance dates for the provisions of this part are as follows:
(1) For coal mine operators, April 14, 2025.
(2) For metal and nonmetal mine operators, April 8, 2026.
§ 60.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Action level
means an airborne concentration of respirable crystalline silica of 25 micrograms per cubic meter of air (µg/m
3
) for a full-shift exposure, calculated as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA).
Respirable crystalline silica
means quartz, cristobalite, and/or tridymite contained in airborne particles that are determined to be respirable by a sampling device designed to meet the characteristics for respirable-particle-size-selective samplers that conform to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 7708:1995: Air Quality—Particle Size Fraction Definitions for Health-Related Sampling.
Specialist
means an American Board-Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or an American Board-Certified Specialist in Occupational Medicine.
§ 60.10
Permissible exposure limit (PEL).
The mine operator shall ensure that no miner is exposed to an airborne concentration of respirable crystalline silica in excess of 50 µg/m
3
for a full-shift exposure, calculated as an 8-hour TWA.
§ 60.11
Methods of compliance.
(a) The mine operator shall install, use, and maintain feasible engineering controls, supplemented by administrative controls when necessary, to keep each miner's exposure at or below the PEL, except as specified in § 60.14.
(b) Rotation of miners shall not be considered an acceptable administrative control used for compliance with this part.
§ 60.12
Exposure monitoring.
(a)
Sampling.
(1) Mine operators shall commence sampling by the compliance date in § 60.1 to assess the full shift, 8-hour TWA exposure of respirable crystalline silica for each miner who is or may reasonably be expected to be exposed to respirable crystalline silica.
(2) If the sampling under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is:
(i) Below the action level, the mine operator shall take at least one additional sampling within 3 months.
(ii) At or above the action level but at or below the PEL, the mine operator shall take another sampling within 3 months.
(iii) Above the PEL, the mine operator shall take corrective actions and sample pursuant to § 60.12(b).
(3) Where the most recent sampling indicates that miner exposures are at or above the action level but at or below the PEL, the mine operator shall continue to sample within 3 months of the previous sampling.
(4) The mine operator may discontinue sampling when two consecutive samplings indicate that miner exposures are below the action level. The
second of these samplings must be taken after the operator receives the results of the prior sampling but no sooner than 7 days after the prior sampling was conducted.
(b)
Corrective actions sampling.
Where the most recent sampling indicates that miner exposures are above the PEL, the mine operator shall sample after corrective actions are taken pursuant to § 60.13 until the sampling indicates that miner exposures are at or below the PEL. The mine operator shall immediately report all operator samples above the PEL to the MSHA District Manager or to any other MSHA office designated by the District Manager.
(c)
Periodic evaluation.
At least every 6 months after commencing sampling under 60.12(a)(1) or whenever there is a change in: production; processes; installation or maintenance of engineering controls; installation or maintenance of equipment; administrative controls; or geological conditions; mine operators shall evaluate whether the change may reasonably be expected to result in new or increased respirable crystalline silica exposures. Once the evaluation is completed, the mine operator shall:
(1) Make a record of the evaluation, including the evaluated change, the impact on respirable crystalline silica exposure, and the date of the evaluation; and
(2) Post the record on the mine bulletin board and, if applicable, by electronic means, for the next 31 days.
(d)
Post-evaluation sampling.
If the mine operator determines as a result of the periodic evaluation under paragraph (c) of this section that miners may be exposed to respirable crystalline silica at or above the action level, the mine operator shall perform sampling to assess the full shift, 8-hour TWA exposure of respirable crystalline silica for each miner who is or may reasonably be expected to be at or above the action level.
(e)
Sampling requirements.
(1) Sampling shall be performed for the duration of a miner's regular full shift and during typical mining activities, including shaft and slope sinking, construction, and removal of overburden.
(2) The full-shift, 8-hour TWA exposure for such miners shall be measured based on:
(i) Personal breathing-zone air samples for metal and nonmetal operations; or
(ii) Occupational environmental samples collected in accordance with § 70.201(c), § 71.201(b), or § 90.201(b) of this chapter for coal operations.
(3) Where several miners perform the same tasks on the same shift and in the same work area, the mine operator may sample a representative fraction (at least two) of these miners to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. In sampling a representative fraction of miners, the mine operator shall select the miners who are expected to have the highest exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
(4) The mine operator shall use respirable-particle-size-selective samplers that conform to ISO 7708:1995(E) to determine compliance with the PEL. ISO 7708:1995(E),
Air quality—Particle size fraction definitions for health-related sampling,
First Edition, 1995-04-01, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), CP 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland; phone: + 41 22 749 01 11; fax: + 41 22 733 34 30; website:
www.iso.org.
(f)
Methods of sample analysis.
(1) The mine operator shall use a laboratory that is accredited to ISO/IEC 17025
“General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories” with respect to respirable crystalline silica analyses, where the accreditation has been issued by a body that is compliant with ISO/IEC 17011 “Conformity assessment—Requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting conformity assessment bodies.”
(2) The mine operator shall ensure that the laboratory evaluates all samples using respirable crystalline silica analytical methods specified by MSHA, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), or the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
(g)
Sampling records.
For each sample taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the mine operator shall make a record of the sample date, the occupations sampled, and the concentrations of respirable crystalline silica and respirable dust and post the record and the laboratory report on the mine bulletin board and, if applicable, by electronic means, for the next 31 days, upon receipt.
§ 60.13
Corrective actions.
(a) If any sampling indicates that a miner's exposure exceeds the PEL, the mine operator shall:
(1) Make approved respirators available to affected miners before the start of the next work shift in accordance with § 60.14(b) and (c);
(2) Ensure that affected miners wear respirators properly for the full shift or during the period of overexposure until miner exposures are at or below the PEL; and
(3) Immediately take corrective actions to lower the concentration of respirable crystalline silica to at or below the PEL.
(b) Once corrective actions have been taken, the mine operator shall:
(1) Conduct sampling pursuant to § 60.12(b); and
(2) Take additional or new corrective actions until sampling indicates miner exposures are at or below the PEL.
(c) The mine operator shall make a record of corrective actions and the dates of the corrective actions under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 60.14
Respiratory protection.
(a)
Temporary use of respirators at metal and nonmetal mines.
The metal and nonmetal mine operator shall use respiratory protection as a temporary measure in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section when miners must work in concentrations of respirable crystalline silica above the PEL while:
(1) Engineering control measures are being developed and implemented; or
(2) It is necessary by the nature of work involved (for example, occasional entry into hazardous atmospheres to perform maintenance or investigation).
(b)
Miners unable to wear respirators at all mines.
Upon written determination by a physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP) that an affected miner is unable to wear a respirator, the miner shall be temporarily transferred either to work in a separate area of the same mine or to an occupation at the same mine where respiratory protection is not required.
(1) The affected miner shall continue to receive compensation at no less than the regular rate of pay in the occupation held by that miner immediately prior to the transfer.
(2) The affected miner may be transferred back to the miner's initial work area or occupation when temporary use of respirators under paragraph (a) of this section or section 60.13 is no longer required.
(c)
Respiratory protection requirements at all mines.
(1) Affected miners shall be provided with a NIOSH-approved atmosphere-supplying respirator or NIOSH-approved air-purifying respirator equipped with the following:
(i) Particulate protection classified as 100 series under 42 CFR part 84; or
(ii) Particulate protection classified as High Efficiency “HE” under 42 CFR part 84.
(2) When approved respirators are used, the mine operator must have a written respiratory protection program that meets the following requirements in accordance with ASTM F3387-19: program administration; written standard operating procedures; medical evaluation; respirator selection; training; fit testing; maintenance, inspection, and storage. ASTM F3387-19,
Standard Practice for Respiratory Protection,
approved August 1, 2019, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959;
www.astm.org.
§ 60.15
Medical surveillance for metal and nonmetal mines.
(a)
Medical surveillance.
Each operator of a metal and nonmetal mine shall provide to each miner periodic medical examinations performed by a physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP) or specialist, as defined in § 60.2, at no cost to the miner.
(1) Medical examinations shall be provided at frequencies specified in this section.
(2) Medical examinations shall include:
(i) A medical and work history, with emphasis on: past and present exposure to respirable crystalline silica, dust, and other agents affecting the respiratory system; any history of respiratory system dysfunction, including diagnoses and symptoms of respiratory disease (
e.g.,
shortness of breath, cough, wheezing); history of tuberculosis; and smoking status and history;
(ii) A physical examination with special emphasis on the respiratory system;
(iii) A chest X-ray (a single posteroanterior radiographic projection or radiograph of the chest at full inspiration recorded on either film (no less than 14 x 17 inches and no more than 16 x 17 inches) or digital radiography systems), classified according to the International Labour Office (ILO) International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses by a NIOSH-certified B Reader; and
(iv) A pulmonary function test to include forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV
1
) and FEV
1
/FVC ratio, administered by a spirometry technician with a current certificate from a NIOSH-approved Spirometry Program Sponsor or by a pulmonary function technologist with a current credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care.
(b)
Voluntary medical examinations.
Each mine operator shall provide the opportunity to all miners employed at the mine to have the medical examinations specified in paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) During an initial 12-month period; and
(2) At least every 5 years after the end of the period in paragraph (b)(1). The medical examinations shall be available during a 6-month period that begins no less than 3.5 years and not more than 4.5 years from the end of the last 6-month period.
(c)
Mandatory medical examinations.
For each miner who begins work in the mining industry for the first time, the mine operator shall provide medical examinations specified in paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) An initial medical examination no later than 60 days after beginning employment;
(2) A follow-up medical examination no later than 3 years after the initial examination in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(3) A follow-up medical examination conducted by a specialist no later than 2 years after the examinations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section if the chest X-ray shows evidence of pneumoconiosis or the spirometry examination indicates evidence of decreased lung function.
(d)
Medical examinations results.
(1) The mine operator shall ensure that the results of medical examinations or tests made pursuant to this section shall be provided from the PLHCP or specialist within 30 days of the medical examination to the miner, and at the
request of the miner, to the miner's designated physician or another designee identified by the miner.
(2) The mine operator shall ensure that, within 30 days of the medical examination, the PLHCP or specialist provides the results of chest X-ray classifications to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), once NIOSH establishes a reporting system.
(e)
Written medical opinion.
The mine operator shall obtain a written medical opinion from the PLHCP or specialist within 30 days of the medical examination. The written opinion shall contain only the following:
(1) The date of the medical examination;
(2) A statement that the examination has met the requirements of this section; and
(3) Any recommended limitations on the miner's use of respirators.
(f)
Written medical opinion records.
The mine operator shall maintain a record of the written medical opinions received from the PLHCP or specialist under paragraph (e) of this section.
§ 60.16
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Table 1 to this paragraph (a) lists the records the mine operator shall retain and their retention period.
(1) Evaluation records made under § 60.12(c) shall be retained for at least 5 years from the date of each evaluation.
(2) Sampling records made under § 60.12(g) shall be retained for at least 5 years from the sample date.
(3) Corrective actions records made under § 60.13(c) shall be retained for at least 5 years from the date of each corrective action. These records must be stored with the records of related sampling under § 60.12(g).
(4) Written determination records received from a PLHCP under § 60.14(b) shall be retained for the duration of the miner's employment plus 6 months.
(5) Written medical opinion records received from a PLHCP or specialist under § 60.15(f) shall be retained for the duration of the miner's employment plus 6 months.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—Recordkeeping Requirements
Record
Section
references
Retention period
1. Evaluation records
§ 60.12(c)
At least 5 years from date of each evaluation.
2. Sampling records
§ 60.12(g)
At least 5 years from sample date.
3. Corrective actions records
§ 60.13(c)
At least 5 years from date of each corrective action.
4. Written determination records received from a PLHCP
§ 60.14(b)
Duration of miner's employment plus 6 months.
5. Written medical opinion records received from a PLHCP or specialist
§ 60.15(f)
Duration of miner's employment plus 6 months.
(b) Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary, from an authorized representative of miners, or from miners, mine operators shall promptly provide access to any record listed in this section.
§ 60.17
Severability.
Each section of this part, as well as sections in 30 CFR parts 56, 57, 70, 71, 72, 75, and 90 that address respirable crystalline silica or respiratory protection, is separate and severable from the other sections and provisions. If any provision of this subpart is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person, entity, or circumstance, or is stayed or enjoined, that provision shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from these sections and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
Pt. 62

# PART 62—OCCUPATIONAL NOISE EXPOSURE
Sec.
62.100
Purpose and scope; effective date.
62.101
Definitions.
62.110
Noise exposure assessment.
62.120
Action level.
62.130
Permissible exposure level.
62.140
Dual hearing protection level.
62.150
Hearing conservation program.
62.160
Hearing protectors.
62.170
Audiometric testing.
62.171
Audiometric test procedures.
62.172
Evaluation of audiograms.
62.173
Follow-up evaluation when an audiogram is invalid.
62.174
Follow-up corrective measures when a standard threshold shift is detected.
62.175
Notification of results; reporting requirements.
62.180
Training.
62.190
Records.
Appendix to Part 62

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811.

# Source:
64 FR 49630, Sept. 13, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 62.100
Purpose and scope; effective date.
The purpose of these standards is to prevent the occurrence and reduce the progression of occupational noise-induced hearing loss among miners. This part sets forth mandatory health standards for each surface and underground metal, nonmetal, and coal mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. The provisions of this part become effective September 13, 2000.
§ 62.101
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Access.
The right to examine and copy records.
Action level.
An 8-hour time-weighted average sound level (TWA
8
) of 85 dBA, or equivalently a dose of 50%, integrating all sound levels from 80 dBA to at least 130 dBA.
Audiologist.
A professional, specializing in the study and rehabilitation of hearing, who is certified by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) or licensed by a state board of examiners.
Baseline audiogram.
The audiogram recorded in accordance with § 62.170(a) of this part against which subsequent audiograms are compared to determine the extent of hearing loss.
Criterion level.
The sound level which if constantly applied for 8 hours results in a dose of 100% of that permitted by the standard.
Decibel (dB).
A unit of measure of sound pressure levels, defined in one of two ways, depending upon the use:
(1) For measuring sound pressure levels, the decibel is 20 times the common logarithm of the ratio of the measured sound pressure to the standard reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals (µPa), which is the threshold of normal hearing sensitivity at 1000 Hertz (Hz).
(2) For measuring hearing threshold levels, the decibel is the difference between audiometric zero (reference pressure equal to 0 hearing threshold level) and the threshold of hearing of the individual being tested at each test frequency.
Dual Hearing Protection Level.
A TWA
8
of 105 dBA, or equivalently, a dose of 800% of that permitted by the standard, integrating all sound levels from 90 dBA to at least 140 dBA.
Exchange rate.
The amount of increase in sound level, in decibels, which would require halving of the allowable exposure time to maintain the same noise dose. For the purposes of this part, the exchange rate is 5 decibels (5 dB).
Hearing protector.
Any device or material, capable of being worn on the head or in the ear canal, sold wholly or in part on the basis of its ability to reduce the level of sound entering the ear, and which has a scientifically accepted indicator of noise reduction value.
Hertz (Hz).
Unit of measurement of frequency numerically equal to cycles per second.
Medical pathology.
A condition or disease affecting the ear.
Miner's designee.
Any individual or organization to whom a miner gives written authorization to exercise a right of access to records.
Qualified technician.
A technician who has been certified by the Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC), or by another recognized organization offering equivalent certification.
Permissible exposure level.
A TWA
8
of 90 dBA or equivalently a dose of 100% of that permitted by the standard, integrating all sound levels from 90 dBA to at least 140 dBA.
Reportable hearing loss.
A change in hearing sensitivity for the worse, relative to the miner's baseline audiogram, or the miner's revised baseline
audiogram where one has been established in accordance with § 62.170(c)(2), of an average of 25 dB or more at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz in either ear.
Revised baseline audiogram.
An annual audiogram designated to be used in lieu of a miner's original baseline audiogram in measuring changes in hearing sensitivity as a result of the circumstances set forth in §§ 62.170(c)(1) or 62.170(c)(2) of this part.
Sound level.
The sound pressure level in decibels measured using the A-weighting network and a slow response, expressed in the unit dBA.
Standard threshold shift.
A change in hearing sensitivity for the worse relative to the miner's baseline audiogram, or relative to the most recent revised baseline audiogram where one has been established, of an average of 10 dB or more at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz in either ear.
Time-weighted average-8 hour
(TWA
8
). The sound level which, if constant over 8 hours, would result in the same noise dose as is measured.
§ 62.110
Noise exposure assessment.
(a) The mine operator must establish a system of monitoring that evaluates each miner's noise exposure sufficiently to determine continuing compliance with this part.
(b) The mine operator must determine a miner's noise dose (D, in percent) by using a noise dosimeter or by computing the formula: D = 100(C
1
/T
1
+ C
2
/T
2
+ . . . . + C
n
/T
n
), where Cn is the total time the miner is exposed at a specified sound level, and T
n
is the reference duration of exposure at that sound level shown in Table 62-1.
(1) The mine operator must use Table 62-2 when converting from dose readings to equivalent TWA
8
readings.
(2) A miner's noise dose determination must:
(i) Be made without adjustment for the use of any hearing protector;
(ii) Integrate all sound levels over the appropriate range;
(iii) Reflect the miner's full work shift;
(iv) Use a 90-dB criterion level and a 5-dB exchange rate; and
(v) Use the A-weighting and slow response instrument settings.
(c)
Observation of monitoring.
The mine operator must provide affected miners and their representatives with an opportunity to observe noise exposure monitoring required by this section and must give prior notice of the date and time of intended exposure monitoring to affected miners and their representatives.
(d)
Miner notification.
The mine operator must notify a miner of his or her exposure when the miner's exposure is determined to equal or exceed the action level, exceed the permissible exposure level, or exceed the dual hearing protection level, provided the mine operator has not notified the miner of an exposure at such level within the prior 12 months. The mine operator must base the notification on an exposure evaluation conducted either by the mine operator or by an authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor. The mine operator must notify the miner in writing within 15 calendar days of:
(1) The exposure determination; and (2) the corrective action being taken.
(e) The mine operator must maintain a copy of any such miner notification, or a list on which the relevant information about that miner's notice is recorded, for the duration of the affected miner's exposure at or above the action level and for at least 6 months thereafter.
§ 62.120
Action level.
If during any work shift a miner's noise exposure equals or exceeds the action level the mine operator must enroll the miner in a hearing conservation program that complies with § 62.150 of this part.
§ 62.130
Permissible exposure level.
(a) The mine operator must assure that no miner is exposed during any work shift to noise that exceeds the permissible exposure level. If during any work shift a miner's noise exposure exceeds the permissible exposure level, the mine operator must use all feasible engineering and administrative controls to reduce the miner's noise exposure to the permissible exposure level, and enroll the miner in a hearing conservation program that complies with § 62.150 of this part.
When a mine operator uses administrative controls to reduce a miner's exposure, the mine operator must post the procedures for such controls on the mine bulletin board and provide a copy to the affected miner.
(b) If a miner's noise exposure continues to exceed the permissible exposure level despite the use of all feasible engineering and administrative controls, the mine operator must continue to use the engineering and administrative controls to reduce the miner's noise exposure to as low a level as is feasible.
(c) The mine operator must assure that no miner is exposed at any time to sound levels exceeding 115 dBA, as determined without adjustment for the use of any hearing protector.
§ 62.140
Dual hearing protection level.
If during any work shift a miner's noise exposure exceeds the dual hearing protection level, the mine operator must, in addition to the actions required for noise exposures that exceed the permissible exposure level, provide and ensure the concurrent use of both an ear plug and an ear muff type hearing protector. The following table sets out mine operator actions under MSHA's noise standard.
Provision
Condition
Action required by the mine operator
§ 62.120
Miner's noise exposure is less than the action level
None.
§ 62.120
Miner's exposure equals or exceeds the action level, but does not exceed the permissible exposure level (PEL)
Operator enrolls the miner in hearing conservation program (HCP) which includes (1) a system of monitoring, (2) voluntary, with two exceptions, use of operator-provided hearing protectors, (3) voluntary audiometric testing, (4) training, and (5) record keeping.
§ 62.130
Miner's exposure exceeds the PEL
Operator uses/continues to use all feasible engineering and administrative controls to reduce exposure to PEL; enrolls the miner in a HCP including ensured use of operator-provided hearing protectors; posts administrative controls and provides copy to affected miner; must never permit a miner to be exposed to sound levels exceeding 115 dBA.
§ 62.140
Miner's exposure exceeds the dual hearing protection level
Operator enrolls the miner in a HCP, continues to meet all the requirements of § 62.130, ensures concurrent use of earplug and earmuff.
§ 62.150
Hearing conservation program.
A hearing conservation program established under this part must include:
(a) A system of monitoring under § 62.110 of this part;
(b) The provision and use of hearing protectors under § 62.160 of this part;
(c) Audiometric testing under §§ 62.170 through 62.175 of this part;
(d) Training under § 62.180 of this part; and
(e) Recordkeeping under § 62.190 of this part.
§ 62.160
Hearing protectors.
(a) A mine operator must provide a hearing protector to a miner whose noise exposure equals or exceeds the action level under § 62.120 of this part. In addition, the mine operator must:
(1) Train the miner in accordance with § 62.180 of this part;
(2) Allow the miner to choose a hearing protector from at least two muff types and two plug types, and in the event dual hearing protectors are required, to choose one of each type;
(3) Ensure that the hearing protector is in good condition and is fitted and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions;
(4) Provide the hearing protector and necessary replacements at no cost to the miner; and
(5) Allow the miner to choose a different hearing protector(s), if wearing the selected hearing protector(s) is subsequently precluded due to medical pathology of the ear.
(b) The mine operator must ensure, after satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, that a miner wears a hearing protector whenever the miner's noise exposure exceeds the permissible exposure level before the implementation of engineering and administrative controls, or if the miner's noise exposure continues to exceed the permissible exposure level despite the use of all feasible engineering and administrative controls.
(c) The mine operator must ensure, after satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, that a miner wears a hearing protector when the miner's noise exposure is at or above the action level, if:
(1) The miner has incurred a standard threshold shift; or
(2) More than 6 months will pass before the miner can take a baseline audiogram.
§ 62.170
Audiometric testing.
The mine operator must provide audiometric tests to satisfy the requirements of this part at no cost to the miner. A physician or an audiologist, or a qualified technician under the direction or supervision of a physician or an audiologist must conduct the tests.
(a)
Baseline audiogram.
The mine operator must offer miners the opportunity for audiometric testing of the miner's hearing sensitivity for the purpose of establishing a valid baseline audiogram to compare with subsequent annual audiograms. The mine operator may use an existing audiogram of the miner's hearing sensitivity as the baseline audiogram if it meets the audiometric testing requirements of § 62.171 of this part.
(1) The mine operator must offer and provide within 6 months of enrolling the miner in a hearing conservation program, audiometric testing which results in a valid baseline audiogram, or offer and provide the testing within 12 months where the operator uses mobile test vans to do the testing.
(2) The mine operator must notify the miner to avoid high levels of noise for at least 14 hours immediately preceding the baseline audiogram. The mine operator must not expose the miner to workplace noise for the 14-hour quiet period before conducting the audiometric testing to determine a baseline audiogram. The operator may substitute the use of hearing protectors for this quiet period.
(3) The mine operator must not establish a new baseline audiogram or a new revised baseline audiogram, where one has been established, due to changes in enrollment status in the hearing conservation program. The mine operator may establish a new baseline or revised baseline audiogram for a miner who is away from the mine for more than 6 consecutive months.
(b)
Annual audiogram.
After the baseline audiogram is established, the mine operator must continue to offer subsequent audiometric tests at intervals not exceeding 12 months for as long as the miner remains in the hearing conservation program.
(c)
Revised baseline audiogram.
An annual audiogram must be deemed to be a revised baseline audiogram when, in the judgment of the physician or audiologist:
(1) A standard threshold shift revealed by the audiogram is permanent; or (2) The hearing threshold shown in the annual audiogram indicates significant improvement over the baseline audiogram.
§ 62.171
Audiometric test procedures.
(a) All audiometric testing under this part must be conducted in accordance with scientifically validated procedures. Audiometric tests must be pure tone, air conduction, hearing threshold examinations, with test frequencies including 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, and 6000 Hz. Each ear must be tested separately.
(b) The mine operator must compile an audiometric test record for each miner tested. The record must include:
(1) Name and job classification of the miner tested;
(2) A copy of all of the miner's audiograms conducted under this part;
(3) Evidence that the audiograms were conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section;
(4) Any exposure determination for the miner conducted in accordance with § 62.110 of this part; and
(5) The results of follow-up examination(s), if any.
(c) The operator must maintain audiometric test records for the duration of the affected miner's employment, plus at least 6 months, and make the records available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor.
§ 62.172
Evaluation of audiograms.
(a) The mine operator must:
(1) Inform persons evaluating audiograms of the requirements of this
part and provide those persons with a copy of the miner's audiometric test records;
(2) Have a physician or an audiologist, or a qualified technician who is under the direction or supervision of a physician or audiologist:
(i) Determine if the audiogram is valid; and
(ii) Determine if a standard threshold shift or a reportable hearing loss, as defined in this part, has occurred.
(3) Instruct the physician, audiologist, or qualified technician not to reveal to the mine operator, without the written consent of the miner, any specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to the miner's hearing loss due to occupational noise or the wearing of hearing protectors; and
(4) Obtain the results and the interpretation of the results of audiograms conducted under this part within 30 calendar days of conducting the audiogram.
(b)(1) The mine operator must provide an audiometric retest within 30 calendar days of receiving a determination that an audiogram is invalid, provided any medical pathology has improved to the point that a valid audiogram may be obtained.
(2) If an annual audiogram demonstrates that the miner has incurred a standard threshold shift or reportable hearing loss, the mine operator may provide one retest within 30 calendar days of receiving the results of the audiogram and may use the results of the retest as the annual audiogram.
(c) In determining whether a standard threshold shift or reportable hearing loss has occurred, allowance may be made for the contribution of aging (presbycusis) to the change in hearing level. The baseline, or the revised baseline as appropriate, and the annual audiograms used in making the determination should be adjusted according to the following procedure:
(1) Determine from Tables 62-3 or 62-4 the age correction values for the miner by:
(i) Finding the age at which the baseline audiogram or revised baseline audiogram, as appropriate, was taken, and recording the corresponding values of age corrections at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz;
(ii) Finding the age at which the most recent annual audiogram was obtained and recording the corresponding values of age corrections at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz; and
(iii) Subtracting the values determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section from the values determined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. The differences calculated represent that portion of the change in hearing that may be due to aging.
(2) Subtract the values determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section from the hearing threshold levels found in the annual audiogram to obtain the adjusted annual audiogram hearing threshold levels.
(3) Subtract the hearing threshold levels in the baseline audiogram or revised baseline audiogram from the adjusted annual audiogram hearing threshold levels determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to obtain the age-corrected threshold shifts.
§ 62.173
Follow-up evaluation when an audiogram is invalid.
(a) If a valid audiogram cannot be obtained due to a suspected medical pathology of the ear that the physician or audiologist believes was caused or aggravated by the miner's occupational exposure to noise or the wearing of hearing protectors, the mine operator must refer the miner for a clinical-audiological evaluation or an otological examination, as appropriate, at no cost to the miner.
(b) If a valid audiogram cannot be obtained due to a suspected medical pathology of the ear that the physician or audiologist concludes is unrelated to the miner's occupational exposure to noise or the wearing of hearing protectors, the mine operator must instruct the physician or audiologist to inform the miner of the need for an otological examination.
(c) The mine operator must instruct the physician, audiologist, or qualified technician not to reveal to the mine operator, without the written consent of the miner, any specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to the miner's occupational exposure to noise or the wearing of hearing protectors.
§ 62.174
Follow-up corrective measures when a standard threshold shift is detected.
The mine operator must, within 30 calendar days of receiving evidence or confirmation of a standard threshold shift, unless a physician or audiologist determines the standard threshold shift is neither work-related nor aggravated by occupational noise exposure:
(a) Retrain the miner, including the instruction required by § 62.180 of this part;
(b) Provide the miner with the opportunity to select a hearing protector, or a different hearing protector if the miner has previously selected a hearing protector, from among those offered by the mine operator in accordance with § 62.160 of this part; and
(c) Review the effectiveness of any engineering and administrative controls to identify and correct any deficiencies.
§ 62.175
Notification of results; reporting requirements.
(a) The mine operator must, within 10 working days of receiving the results of an audiogram, or receiving the results of a follow-up evaluation required under § 62.173 of this part, notify the miner in writing of:
(1) The results and interpretation of the audiometric test, including any finding of a standard threshold shift or reportable hearing loss; and
(2) The need and reasons for any further testing or evaluation, if applicable.
(b) When evaluation of the audiogram shows that a miner has incurred a reportable hearing loss as defined in this part, the mine operator must report such loss to MSHA as a noise-induced hearing loss in accordance with part 50 of this title, unless a physician or audiologist has determined that the loss is neither work-related nor aggravated by occupational noise exposure.
§ 62.180
Training.
(a) The mine operator must, within 30 days of a miner's enrollment into a hearing conservation program, provide the miner with training. The mine operator must give training every 12 months thereafter if the miner's noise exposure continues to equal or exceed the action level. Training must include:
(1) The effects of noise on hearing;
(2) The purpose and value of wearing hearing protectors;
(3) The advantages and disadvantages of the hearing protectors to be offered;
(4) The various types of hearing protectors offered by the mine operator and the care, fitting, and use of each type;
(5) The general requirements of this part;
(6) The mine operator's and miner's respective tasks in maintaining mine noise controls; and
(7) The purpose and value of audiometric testing and a summary of the procedures.
(b) The mine operator must certify the date and type of training given each miner, and maintain the miner's most recent certification for as long as the miner is enrolled in the hearing conservation program and for at least 6 months thereafter.
§ 62.190
Records.
(a) The authorized representatives of the Secretaries of Labor and Health and Human Services must have access to all records required under this part. Upon written request, the mine operator must provide, within 15 calendar days of the request, access to records to:
(1) The miner, or with the miner's written consent, the miner's designee, for all records that the mine operator must maintain for that individual miner under this part;
(2) Any representative of miners designated under part 40 of this title, to training certifications compiled under § 62.180(b) of this part and to any notice of exposure determination under § 62.110(d) of this part, for the miners whom he or she represents; and
(3) Any former miner, for records which indicate his or her own exposure.
(b) When a person with access to records under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section requests a copy of a record, the mine operator must provide the first copy of such record at no cost to that person, and any additional copies requested by that person at reasonable cost.
(c) Transfer of records. (1) The mine operator must transfer all records required to be maintained by this part, or a copy thereof, to a successor mine operator who must maintain the records for the time period required by this part.
(2) The successor mine operator must use the baseline audiogram, or revised baseline audiogram, as appropriate, obtained by the original mine operator to determine the existence of a standard threshold shift or reportable hearing loss.
Pt. 62, App.

# Appendix to Part 62
Table 62-1—Reference Duration
dBA
T (hours)
80
32.0
85
16.0
86
13.9
87
12.1
88
10.6
89
9.2
90
8.0
91
7.0
92
6.1
93
5.3
94
4.6
95
4.0
96
3.5
97
3.0
98
2.6
99
2.3
100
2.0
101
1.7
102
1.5
103
1.3
104
1.1
105
1.0
106
0.87
107
0.76
108
0.66
109
0.57
110
0.50
111
0.44
112
0.38
113
0.33
114
0.29
115
0.25
At no time shall any excursion exceed 115 dBA. For any value, the reference duration (T) in hours is computed by: T = 8/2
(L−90)/5
where L is the measured A-weighted, slow-response sound pressure level.
Table 62-2—“Dose”TWA
8
Equivalent
Dose
TWA
8
(percent)
25
80
29
81
33
82
38
83
44
84
50
85
57
86
66
87
76
88
87
89
100
90
115
91
132
92
152
93
174
94
200
95
230
96
264
97
303
98
350
99
400
100
460
101
530
102
610
103
700
104
800
105
920
106
1056
107
1213
108
1393
109
1600
110
1838
111
2111
112
2425
113
2786
114
3200
115
Interpolate between the values found in this Table, or extend the Table, by using the formula: TWA
8
= 16.61 log
10
(D/100) + 90.
Table 62-3—Age Correction Value in Decibels for Males (Selected Frequencies)
Age (years)
kHz
2
3
4
20 or less
3
4
5
21
3
4
5
22
3
4
5
23
3
4
6
24
3
5
6
25
3
5
7
26
4
5
7
27
4
6
7
28
4
6
8
29
4
6
8
30
4
6
9
31
4
7
9
32
5
7
10
33
5
7
10
34
5
8
11
35
5
8
11
36
5
9
12
37
6
9
12
38
6
9
13
39
6
10
14
40
6
10
14
41
6
10
14
42
7
11
16
43
7
12
16
44
7
12
17
45
7
13
18
46
8
13
19
47
8
14
19
48
8
14
20
49
9
15
21
50
9
16
22
51
9
16
23
52
10
17
24
53
10
18
25
54
10
18
26
55
11
19
27
56
11
20
28
57
11
21
29
58
12
22
31
59
12
22
32
60 or more
13
23
33
Table 62-4—Age Correction Value in Decibels for Females (Selected Frequencies)
Age (years)
kHz
2
3
4
20 or less
4
3
3
21
4
4
3
22
4
4
4
23
5
4
4
24
5
4
4
25
5
4
4
26
5
5
4
27
5
5
5
28
5
5
5
29
5
5
5
30
6
5
5
31
6
6
5
32
6
6
6
33
6
6
6
34
6
6
6
35
6
7
7
36
7
7
7
37
7
7
7
38
7
7
7
39
7
8
8
40
7
8
8
41
8
8
8
42
8
9
9
43
8
9
9
44
8
9
9
45
8
10
10
46
9
10
10
47
9
10
11
48
9
11
11
49
9
11
11
50
10
11
12
51
10
11
12
52
10
12
13
53
10
13
13
54
11
13
14
55
11
14
14
56
11
14
15
57
11
15
15
58
12
15
16
59
12
16
16
60 or more
12
16
17
[64 FR 49630, Sept. 13, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 66929, Nov. 8, 2000]
SUBCHAPTER N [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER O—COAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH
Pt. 70

# PART 70—MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS—UNDERGROUND COAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
70.1
Scope.
70.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Dust Standards
70.100
Respirable dust standards.
70.101
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures
70.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
70.202
Certified person; sampling.
70.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
70.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
70.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
70.206-70.207
[Reserved]
70.208
Quarterly sampling; mechanized mining units.
70.209
Quarterly sampling; designated areas.
70.210
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
70.211
Respirable dust samples; report to operator; posting.
70.212
Status change reports.
Subpart D [Reserved]
Subpart E—Dust From Drilling Rock [Reserved]
Subparts F-S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Diesel Exhaust Gas Monitoring
70.1900
Exhaust Gas Monitoring.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h), 957.

# Source:
59 FR 8327, Feb 18, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
79 FR 24972, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.1
Scope.
This part 70 sets forth mandatory health standards for each underground coal mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended.
§ 70.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part.
Act.
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 91-173, as amended by Public Law 95-164 and Public Law 109-236.
Active workings.
Any place in a coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel.
Approved sampling device.
A sampling device approved by the Secretary and Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) under part 74 of this title.
Certified person.
An individual certified by the Secretary in accordance with § 70.202 to take respirable dust samples required by this part or certified in accordance with § 70.203 to perform the maintenance and calibration of respirable dust sampling equipment as required by this part.
Coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart B, of this title.
Concentration.
A measure of the amount of a substance contained per unit volume of air.
Continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart C of this title.
Designated area (DA).
A specific location in the mine identified by the operator in the mine ventilation plan under § 75.371(t) of this title where samples will be collected to measure respirable dust generation sources in the active workings; approved by the District Manager; and assigned a four-digit identification number by MSHA.
Designated occupation (DO).
The occupation on a mechanized mining unit (MMU) that has been determined by results of respirable dust samples to have the greatest respirable dust concentration.
District Manager.
The manager of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located.
Equivalent concentration.
The concentration of respirable coal mine dust,
including quartz, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
) as measured with an approved sampling device, determined by dividing the weight of dust in milligrams collected on the filter of an approved sampling device by the volume of air in cubic meters passing through the filter (sampling time in minutes (t) times the sampling airflow rate in cubic meters per minute), and then converting that concentration to an equivalent concentration as measured by the Mining Research Establishment (MRE) instrument. When the approved sampling device is:
(1) The CMDPSU, the equivalent concentration is determined by multiplying the concentration of respirable coal mine dust by the constant factor prescribed by the Secretary.
(2) The CPDM, the device shall be programmed to automatically report end-of-shift concentration measurements as equivalent concentrations.
Mechanized mining unit (MMU).
A unit of mining equipment including hand loading equipment used for the production of material; or a specialized unit which uses mining equipment other than specified in § 70.206(b) or in § 70.208(b) of this part. Each MMU will be assigned a four-digit identification number by MSHA, which is retained by the MMU regardless of where the unit relocates within the mine. However, when:
(1) Two sets of mining equipment are used in a series of working places within the same working section and only one production crew is employed at any given time on either set of mining equipment, the two sets of equipment shall be identified as a single MMU.
(2) Two or more sets of mining equipment are simultaneously engaged in cutting, mining, or loading coal or rock from working places within the same working section, each set of mining equipment shall be identified as a separate MMU.
MRE instrument.
The gravimetric dust sampler with a four channel horizontal elutriator developed by the Mining Research Establishment of the National Coal Board, London, England.
MSHA.
The Mine Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Normal production shift.
A production shift during which the amount of material produced by an MMU is at least equal to 80 percent of the average production recorded by the operator for the most recent 30 production shifts or for all production shifts if fewer than 30 shifts of production data are available.
Other designated occupation (ODO).
Other occupation on an MMU that is designated for sampling required by this part in addition to the DO. Each ODO shall be identified by a four-digit identification number assigned by MSHA.
Production shift.
With regard to an MMU, a shift during which material is produced; with regard to a DA of a mine, a shift during which material is produced and routine day-to-day activities are occurring in the DA.
Representative sample.
A respirable dust sample, expressed as an equivalent concentration, that reflects typical dust concentration levels and with regard to an MMU, normal mining activities in the active workings during which the amount of material produced is equivalent to a normal production shift; or with regard to a DA, material is produced and routine-day-to-day activities are occurring.
Respirable dust.
Dust collected with a sampling device approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of HHS in accordance with part 74 (Coal Mine Dust Sampling Devices) of this title.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Labor or a delegate.
Valid respirable dust sample.
A respirable dust sample collected and submitted as required by this part, including any sample for which the data were electronically transmitted to MSHA, and not voided by MSHA.
[79 FR 24972, May 1, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 28473, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart B—Dust Standards

# Source:
79 FR 24973, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.100
Respirable dust standards.
(a) Each operator shall continuously maintain the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere
during each shift to which each miner in the active workings of each mine is exposed, as measured with an approved sampling device and expressed in terms of an equivalent concentration, at or below:
(1) 2.0 milligrams of respirable dust per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
).
(2) 1.5 mg/m
3
as of August 1, 2016.
(b) Each operator shall continuously maintain the average concentration of respirable dust within 200 feet outby the working faces of each section in the intake airways as measured with an approved sampling device and expressed in terms of an equivalent concentration at or below:
(1) 1.0 mg/m
3
.
(2) 0.5 mg/m
3
as of August 1, 2016.
§ 70.101
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures

# Source:
79 FR 24974, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
(a) Only an approved coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU) shall be used to take bimonthly samples of the concentration of respirable coal mine dust from the designated occupation (DO) in each MMU as required by this part until January 31, 2016. On February 1, 2016, DOs in each MMU shall be sampled quarterly with an approved CPDM as required by this part and an approved CMDPSU shall not be used, unless notified by the Secretary to continue to use an approved CMDPSU to conduct quarterly sampling.
(b) Only an approved CMDPSU shall be used to take bimonthly samples of the concentration of respirable coal mine dust from each designated area (DA) as required by this part until January 31, 2016. On February 1, 2016:
(1) DAs associated with an MMU shall be redesignated as Other Designated Occupations (ODO). ODOs shall be sampled quarterly with an approved CPDM as required by this part and an approved CMDPSU shall not be used, unless notified by the Secretary to continue to use an approved CMDPSU to conduct quarterly sampling.
(2) DAs identified by the operator under § 75.371(t) of this chapter shall be sampled quarterly with an approved CMDPSU as required by this part, unless the operator notifies the District Manager in writing that only an approved CPDM will be used for all DA sampling at the mine. The notification must be received at least 90 days before the beginning of the quarter in which CPDMs will be used to collect the DA samples.
(c) Sampling devices shall be worn or carried directly to the MMU or DA to be sampled and from the MMU or DA sampled and shall be operated portal-to-portal. Sampling devices shall remain with the occupation or DA being sampled and shall be operational during the entire shift, which includes the total time spent in the MMU or DA and while traveling to and from the mining section or area being sampled. If the work shift to be sampled is longer than 12 hours and the sampling device is:
(1) A CMDPSU, the operator shall switch-out the unit's sampling pump prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(2) A CPDM, the operator shall switch-out the CPDM with a fully charged device prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(d) If using a CMDPSU, one control filter shall be used for each shift of sampling. Each control filter shall:
(1) Have the same pre-weight date (noted on the dust data card) as the filters used for sampling;
(2) Remain plugged at all times;
(3) Be used for the same amount of time, and exposed to the same temperature and handling conditions as the filters used for sampling;
(4) Be kept with the exposed samples after sampling and in the same mailing container when transmitted to MSHA.
(e) Records showing the length of each production shift for each MMU shall be made and retained for at least six months and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners, and submitted to the District Manager when requested in writing.
(f) Upon request from the District Manager, the operator shall submit the date and time any respirable dust sampling required by this part will begin.
This information shall be submitted at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled sampling.
(g) To establish a normal production shift, the operator shall record the amount of run-of-mine material produced by each MMU during each shift to determine the average production for the most recent 30 production shifts, or for all production shifts if fewer than 30 shifts of production data are available. Production records shall be retained for at least six months and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(h) Operators using CPDMs shall provide training to all miners expected to wear a CPDM. The training shall be completed prior to a miner wearing a CPDM and then every 12 months thereafter. The training shall include:
(1) The importance of monitoring dust concentrations and properly wearing the CPDM.
(2) Explaining the basic features and capabilities of the CPDM;
(3) Discussing the various types of information displayed by the CPDM and how to access that information; and
(4) How to start and stop a short-term sample run during compliance sampling.
(i) An operator shall keep a record of the CPDM training at the mine site for 24 months after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission. Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary, Secretary of HHS, or representative of miners, the operator shall promptly provide access to any such training records. The record shall include:
(1) The date of training;
(2) The names of miners trained; and
(3) The subjects included in the training.
(j) An anthracite mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method may use either a CPDM or a CMDPSU to conduct the required sampling. The mine operator shall notify the District Manager in writing of its decision to not use a CPDM.
(k) MSHA approval of the dust control portion of the operator's mine ventilation plan may be revoked based on samples taken by MSHA or in accordance with this part 70.
§ 70.202
Certified person; sampling.
(a) The respirable dust sampling required by this part shall be performed by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures. Persons not certified in sampling, and those certified only in maintenance and calibration procedures in accordance with § 70.203(b), are not permitted to collect respirable dust samples required by this part or handle approved sampling devices when being used in sampling.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required sampling procedures.
§ 70.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained and calibrated by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures for approved sampling devices. Necessary maintenance of the sampling head assembly of a CMDPSU, or the cyclone assembly of a CPDM, can be performed by persons certified in sampling or in maintenance and calibration.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required maintenance and calibration procedures.
§ 70.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained as approved under part 74 of this title and calibrated in accordance with MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996) “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers” or in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, if using a CPDM. Only persons certified in maintenance and calibration can perform maintenance work on the CPDM or the pump unit of the CMDPSU.
(b) Sampling devices shall be calibrated at the flowrate of 2.0 liters of air per minute (L/min) if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer, before they are put into service and, thereafter, at time intervals recommended by the manufacturer or prescribed by the Secretary or Secretary of HHS.
(c) If using a CMDPSU, each sampling device shall be examined and tested by a person certified in sampling or in maintenance and calibration within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the approved sampling devices will be used to collect respirable dust samples. This is to assure that the sampling devices are clean and in proper working condition. This examination and testing shall include the following:
(1) Examination of all components of the cyclone assembly to assure that they are clean and free of dust and dirt. This includes examining the interior of the connector barrel (located between the cassette assembly and vortex finder), vortex finder, cyclone body, and grit pot;
(2) Examination of the inner surface of the cyclone body to assure that it is free of scoring or scratch marks on the inner surface of the cyclone where the air flow is directed by the vortex finder into the cyclone body;
(3) Examination of the external hose connecting the pump unit to the sampling head assembly to assure that it is clean and free of leaks; and
(4) Examination of the clamping and positioning of the cyclone body, vortex finder, and cassette to assure that they are rigid, in alignment, firmly in contact, and airtight.
(5) Testing the voltage of each battery while under actual load to assure the battery is fully charged. This requires that a fully assembled and examined sampling head assembly be attached to the pump inlet with the pump unit running when the voltage check is made. The voltage for the batteries used in the CMDPSU shall not be lower than the product of the number of cells in the battery multiplied by the manufacturer's nominal voltage per cell value.
(d) If using a CPDM, the certified person in sampling or in maintenance and calibration shall:
(1) Follow the pre-operational examinations, testing, and set-up procedures, and perform necessary external maintenance recommended by the manufacturer to assure the operational readiness of each CPDM within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the sampling devices will be used to collect respirable dust samples; and
(2) Perform other required scheduled examinations and maintenance procedures recommended by the manufacturer.
(e) You must proceed in accordance with “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers,” MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996), referenced in paragraph (a) of this section. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the MSHA Web site at
http://www.msha.gov
and you may inspect or obtain a copy at MSHA, Coal Mine Safety and Health, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9500; and at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[79 FR 24974, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 70.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be operated at the flowrate of 2.0 L/min if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer.
(b) If using a CMDPSU, each approved sampling device shall be examined each shift by a person certified in sampling during:
(1) The second hour after being put into operation to assure it is in the proper location, operating properly, and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, necessary adjustments shall be made by the certified person. This examination is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.
(2) The last hour of operation to assure that the sampling device is operating properly and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the certified person on the back of the dust data card stating that the proper flowrate was not maintained. Other events occurring during the collection of respirable dust samples that may affect the validity of the sample, such as dropping of the sampling head assembly onto the mine floor, shall be noted on the back of the dust data card.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall monitor the dust concentrations and the sampling status conditions being reported by the sampling device at mid-shift or more frequently as specified in the approved mine ventilation plan to assure: The sampling device is in the proper location and operating properly; and the work environment of the occupation or DA being sampled remains in compliance with the standard at the end of the shift. This monitoring is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.
[89 FR 28473, 28474, Apr. 18, 2024]
§§ 70.206-70.207
[Reserved]
§ 70.208
Quarterly sampling; mechanized mining units.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) The operator shall sample each calendar quarter:
(1) The designated occupation (DO) in each MMU on consecutive normal production shifts until 15 valid representative samples are taken. The District Manager may require additional groups of 15 valid representative samples when information indicates the operator has not followed the approved ventilation plan for any MMU.
(2) Each other designated occupation (ODO) specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section in each MMU or specified by the District Manager and identified in the approved mine ventilation plan on consecutive normal production shifts until 15 valid representative samples are taken. Sampling of each ODO type shall begin after fulfilling the sampling requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. When required to sample more than one ODO type, each ODO type must be sampled over separate time periods during the calendar quarter.
(3) The quarterly periods are:
(i) January 1-March 31
(ii) April 1-June 30
(iii) July 1-September 30
(iv) October 1-December 31.
(b) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, the approved sampling device shall be worn by the miner assigned to perform the duties of the DO or ODO specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section or by the District Manager for each type of MMU.
(1)
Conventional section using cutting machine.
DO—The cutting machine operator;
(2)
Conventional section blasting off the solid.
DO—The loading machine operator;
(3)
Continuous mining section other than auger-type.
DO—The continuous mining (CM) machine operator or mobile bridge operator when using continuous haulage; ODO—The roof bolting machine operator who works nearest the working face on the return air side of the continuous mining machine; the face haulage operators on MMUs using
blowing face ventilation; the face haulage operators on MMUs ventilated by split intake air (“fishtail ventilation”) as part of a super-section; and face haulage operators where two continuous mining machines are operated on an MMU.
(4)
Continuous mining section using auger-type machine.
DO—The jacksetter who works nearest the working face on the return air side of the continuous mining machine;
(5)
Scoop section using cutting machine.
DO—The cutting machine operator;
(6)
Scoop section, blasting off the solid.
DO—The coal drill operator;
(7)
Longwall section.
DO—The longwall operator working on the tailgate side of the longwall mining machine; ODO—The jacksetter who works nearest the return air side of the longwall working face, and the mechanic;
(8)
Hand loading section with a cutting machine.
DO—The cutting machine operator;
(9)
Hand loading section blasting off the solid.
DO—The hand loader exposed to the greatest dust concentration; and
(10)
Anthracite mine sections.
DO—The hand loader exposed to the greatest dust concentration.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) If a normal production shift is not achieved, the DO or ODO sample for that shift may be voided by MSHA. However, any sample, regardless of production, that exceeds the standard by at least 0.1 mg/m
3
shall be used in the determination of the equivalent concentration for that occupation
(e) When a valid representative sample taken in accordance with this section meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used, the operator shall:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable dust to at or below the respirable dust standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(f) Noncompliance with the standard is demonstrated during the sampling period when:
(1) Three or more valid representative samples meet or exceed the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used; or
(2) The average for all valid representative samples meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used.
(g)(1) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard involving a DO in an MMU, paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to the DO in that MMU until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
(2) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard involving a type of ODO in an MMU, paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not apply to that ODO type in that MMU until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(h) Upon issuance of a citation for violation of the standard, the operator shall take the following actions sequentially:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the
end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(4) Begin sampling, within 8 calendar days after the date the citation is issued, the environment of the affected occupation in the MMU on consecutive normal production shifts until five valid representative samples are taken.
(i) A citation for a violation of the standard shall be terminated by MSHA when:
(1) Each of the five valid representative samples is at or below the standard; and
(2) The operator has submitted to the District Manager revised dust control parameters as part of the mine ventilation plan applicable to the MMU in the citation and the changes have been approved by the District Manager. The revised parameters shall reflect the control measures used by the operator to abate the violation.
Table 1 to § 70.208—Excessive Concentration Values (ECV) Based on a Single Sample, Three Samples, or the Average of Five or Fifteen Full-Shift CMDPSU/CPDM Concentration Measurements
Section
Samples
ECV (mg/m
3
)
CMDPSU
CPDM
70.208 (e)
70.1-0(a)—Single sample
1.79
1.70
70.1-0(b)—Single sample
0.74
0.57
70.208(f)(1)
70.1-0(a)—3 or more samples
1.79
1.70
70.1-0(b)—3 or more samples
0.74
0.57
70.208(f)(2)
70.1-0(a)—5 sample average
1.63
1.59
70.1-0(b)—5 sample average
0.61
0.53
70.208(f)(2)
70.1-0(a)—15 sample average
1.58
1.56
70.1-0(b)—15 sample average
0.57
0.52
70.208(i)(1)
70.1-0(a)—Each of 5 samples
1.79
1.70
70.1-0(b)—Each of 5 samples
0.74
0.57
[89 FR 28474, 28475, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 70.209
Quarterly sampling; designated areas.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) The operator shall sample quarterly each designated area (DA) on consecutive production shifts until five valid representative samples are taken. The quarterly periods are:
(1) January 1-March 31
(2) April 1-June 30
(3) July 1-September 30
(4) October 1-December 31.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) When a valid representative sample taken in accordance with this section meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used, the operator shall:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable dust to at or below the respirable dust standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(d) Noncompliance with the standard is demonstrated during the sampling period when:
(1) Two or more valid representative samples meet or exceed the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used; or
(2) The average for all valid representative samples meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used.
(e) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to that DA until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(f) Upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, the operator shall take the following actions sequentially:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(4) Begin sampling, within 8 calendar days after the date the citation is issued, the environment of the affected DA on consecutive normal production shifts until five valid representative samples are taken.
(g) A citation for a violation of the standard shall be terminated by MSHA when:
(1) Each of the five valid representative samples is at or below the standard; and
(2) The operator has submitted to the District Manager revised dust control parameters as part of the mine ventilation plan applicable to the DA in the citation, and the changes have been approved by the District Manager. The revised parameters shall reflect the control measures used by the operator to abate the violation.
Table 1 to § 70.209—Excessive Concentration Values (ECV) Based on a Single Sample, Two Samples, or the Average of Five or Fifteen Full-Shift CMDPSU/CPDM Concentration Measurements
Section
Samples
ECV (mg/m
3
)
CMDPSU
CPDM
70.209 (c)
70.100(a)—Single sample
1.79
1.70
70.100(b)—Single sample
0.74
0.57
70.209(d)(1)
70.100(a)—2 or more samples
1.79
1.70
70.100(b)—2 or more samples
0.74
0.57
70.209(d)(2)
70.100(a)—5 sample average
1.63
1.59
70.100(b)—5 sample average
0.61
0.53
70.209(d)(2)
70.100(a)—15 sample average
1.58
1.56
70.100(b)—15 sample average
0.57
0.52
70.209(g)(1)
70.100(a)—Each of 5 samples
1.79
1.70
70.100(b)—Each of 5 samples
0.74
0.57
[89 FR 28475, 28476, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 70.210
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
(a) If using a CMDPSU, the operator shall transmit within 24 hours after the end of the sampling shift all samples collected to fulfill the requirements of this part, including control filters, in containers provided by the manufacturer of the filter cassette to: Respirable Dust Processing Laboratory, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 38, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611,
or to any other address designated by the District Manager.
(b) The operator shall not open or tamper with the seal of any filter cassette or alter the weight of any filter cassette before or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part.
(c) A person certified in sampling shall properly complete the dust data card that is provided by the manufacturer for each filter cassette. The card shall have an identification number identical to that on the cassette used to take the sample and be submitted to MSHA with the sample. Each card shall be signed by the certified person who actually performed the required examinations under 70.205(b) of this part during the sampling shift and shall include that person's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN). Respirable dust samples with data cards not properly completed may be voided by MSHA.
(d) All respirable dust samples collected by the operator shall be considered taken to fulfill the sampling requirements of part 70, 71, or 90 of this title, unless the sample has been identified in writing by the operator to the District Manager, prior to the intended sampling shift, as a sample to be used for purposes other than required by part 70, 71, or 90 of this title.
(e) Respirable dust samples received by MSHA in excess of those required by this part shall be considered invalid samples.
(f) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall (1) validate, certify, and transmit electronically to MSHA within 24 hours after the end of each sampling shift all sample data file information collected and stored in the CPDM, including the sampling status conditions encountered when sampling; and (2) not tamper with the CPDM or its components in any way before, during, or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part, or alter any sample data files. All CPDM data files transmitted electronically to MSHA shall be maintained by the operator for at least 12 months.
[79 FR 24974, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 70.211
Respirable dust samples; report to operator; posting.
(a) MSHA shall provide the operator, as soon as practicable, a report with the following data on respirable dust samples submitted or whose results were transmitted electronically, if using a CPDM, in accordance with this part:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The locations within the mine from which the samples were taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration for each valid sample;
(4) The average equivalent concentration of respirable dust for all valid samples;
(5) The occupation code, where applicable; and
(6) The reason for voiding any sample.
(b) Upon receipt, the operator shall post this data for at least 31 days on the mine bulletin board.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall, within 12 hours after the end of each sampling shift, print, sign, and post on the mine bulletin board a paper record (Dust Data Card) of the sample run. This hard-copy record shall include the data entered when the sample run was first programmed, and the following:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The locations within the mine from which the samples were taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration reported and stored for each sample;
(4) The sampling status conditions encountered for each sample; and
(5) The shift length.
(d) The information required by paragraph (c) of this section shall remain posted until receipt of the MSHA report covering these respirable dust samples.
§ 70.212
Status change reports.
(a) If there is a change in operational status that affects the respirable dust sampling requirements of this part, the operator shall report the change in operational status of the mine, mechanized mining unit, or designated area to the MSHA District Office or to any other MSHA office designated by the
District Manager. Status changes shall be reported in writing or electronically within 3 working days after the status change has occurred.
(b) Each specific operational status is defined as follows:
(1) Underground mine:
(i)
Producing
—has at least one MMU unit producing material.
(ii)
Nonproducing
—no material is being produced.
(iii)
Abandoned
—the work of all miners has been terminated and production activity has ceased.
(2) MMU:
(i)
Producing
—producing material from a working section.
(ii)
Nonproducing
—temporarily ceased production of material.
(iii)
Abandoned
—permanently ceased production of material.
(3) DA:
(i)
Producing
—activity is occurring.
(ii)
Nonproducing
—activity has ceased.
(iii)
Abandoned
—the dust generating source has been withdrawn and activity has ceased.
Subpart D [Reserved]
Subpart E—Dust From Drilling Rock [Reserved]
Subparts F-S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Diesel Exhaust Gas Monitoring
§ 70.1900
Exhaust Gas Monitoring.
(a) During on-shift examinations required by § 75.362, a certified person as defined by § 75.100 of this chapter and designated by the operator as trained or experienced in the appropriate sampling procedures, shall determine the concentration of carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO
2
):
(1) In the return of each working section where diesel equipment is used, at a location which represents the contribution of all diesel equipment on such section;
(2) In the area of the section loading point if diesel haulage equipment is operated on the working section;
(3) At a point inby the last piece of diesel equipment on the longwall or shortwall face when mining equipment is being installed or removed; and
(4) In any other area designated by the district manager as specified in the mine operator's approved ventilation plan where diesel equipment is operated in a manner which can result in significant concentrations of diesel exhaust.
(b) Samples of CO and NO
2
shall be—
(1) Collected in a manner that makes the results available immediately to the person collecting the samples;
(2) Collected and analyzed by appropriate instrumentation which has been maintained and calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations; and
(3) Collected during periods that are representative of conditions during normal operations.
(c) Except as provided in § 75.325(j) of this chapter, when sampling results indicate a concentration of CO and/or NO
2
exceeding an action level of 50 percent of the threshold limit values (TLV®) adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, the mine operator shall immediately take appropriate corrective action to reduce the concentrations of CO and/or NO
2
to below the applicable action level. The publication, “Threshold Limit Values for Substance in Workroom Air” (1972) is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. In addition, copies of the document may be purchased from the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 1330 Kemper Meadow Drive, Attn: Customer Service, Cincinnati, OH 45240; 513-742-2020;
http://www.acgih.org.
(d) A record shall be made when sampling results exceed the action level for the applicable TLV ® for CO and/or NO
2
. The record shall be made as part of and in the same manner as the records for hazards required by § 75.363 of this chapter and include the following:
(1) Location where each sample was collected;
(2) Substance sampled and the measured concentration; and
(3) Corrective action taken to reduce the concentration of CO and/or NO
2
to or below the applicable action level.
(e) As of November 25, 1997 exhaust gas monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section.
[61 FR 55526, Oct. 25, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
Pt. 71

# PART 71—MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS—SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec,
71.1
Scope.
71.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Dust Standards
71.100
Respirable dust standard.
71.101
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures
71.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
71.202
Certified person; sampling.
71.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
71.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
71.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
71.206
Quarterly sampling; designated work positions.
71.207
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
71.208
Respirable dust samples; report to operator; posting.
71.209
Status change reports.

# Subpart D—Respirable Dust Control Plans
71.300
Respirable dust control plan; filing requirements.
71.301
Respirable dust control plan; approval by District Manager and posting.

# Subpart E—Surface Bathing Facilities, Change Rooms, and Sanitary Flush Toilet Facilities at Surface Coal Mines
71.400
Bathing facilities; change rooms; sanitary flush toilet facilities.
71.401
Location of facilities.
71.402
Minimum requirements for bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary flush toilet facilities.
71.403
Waiver of surface facilities requirements; posting of waiver.
71.404
Application for waiver of surface facilities requirements.

# Subpart F—Sanitary Toilet Facilities at Surface Worksites of Surface Coal Mines
71.500
Sanitary toilet facilities at surface work sites; installation requirements.
71.501
Sanitary toilet facilities; maintenance.

# Subpart G—Drinking Water
71.600
Drinking water; general.
71.601
Drinking water; quality.
71.602
Drinking water; distribution.
71.603
Drinking water; dispensing requirements.

# Subpart H—Airborne Contaminants
71.700
Inhalation hazards; threshold limit values for gases, dust, fumes, mists, and vapors.
71.701
Sampling; general requirements.
71.702
Asbestos standard.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h), 957.

# Source:
37 FR 6368, Mar. 28, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
79 FR 24980, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.1
Scope.
This part 71 sets forth mandatory health standards for each surface coal mine and for the surface work areas of each underground coal mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended.
§ 71.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part.
Act.
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 91-173,
as amended by Public Law 95-164 and Public Law 109-236.
Active workings.
Any place in a surface coal mine or the surface work area of an underground coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel.
Approved sampling device.
A sampling device approved by the Secretary and Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) under part 74 of this title.
Certified person.
An individual certified by the Secretary in accordance with § 71.202 to take respirable dust samples required by this part or certified in accordance with § 71.203 to perform maintenance and calibration of respirable dust sampling equipment as required by this part.
Coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart B, of this title.
Concentration.
A measure of the amount of a substance contained per unit volume of air.
Continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart C, of this title.
Designated work position (DWP).
A work position in a surface coal mine and surface work area of an underground coal mine designated for sampling to measure respirable dust generation sources in the active workings. Each DWP will be assigned a four-digit number assigned by MSHA identifying the specific physical portion of the mine that is affected, followed by a three-digit MSHA coal mining occupation code describing the location to which a miner is assigned in the performance of his or her regular duties.
District Manager.
The manager of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located.
Equivalent concentration.
The concentration of respirable coal mine dust, including quartz, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
) as measured with an approved sampling device, determined by dividing the weight of dust in milligrams collected on the filter of an approved sampling device by the volume of air in cubic meters passing through the filter (sampling time in minutes (t) times the sampling airflow rate in cubic meters per minute), and then converting that concentration to an equivalent concentration as measured by the Mining Research Establishment (MRE) instrument. When the approved sampling device is:
(1) The CMDPSU, the equivalent concentration is determined by multiplying the concentration of respirable coal mine dust by the constant factor prescribed by the Secretary.
(2) The CPDM, the device shall be programmed to automatically report end-of-shift concentration measurements as equivalent concentrations.
MRE instrument.
The gravimetric dust sampler with a four channel horizontal elutriator developed by the Mining Research Establishment of the National Coal Board, London, England.
MSHA.
The Mine Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Normal work shift.
(1) A shift during which the regular duties of the DWP are performed while routine day-to-day mining activities are occurring in the rest of the mine and
(2) A shift during which there is no rain, or, if rain occurs, the rain does not suppress the respirable dust to the extent that sampling results will be measurably lower, in the judgment of the person certified under this part to conduct sampling.
Representative sample.
A respirable dust sample, expressed as an equivalent concentration, that reflects typical dust concentration levels in the working environment of the DWP when performing normal duties.
Respirable dust.
Dust collected with a sampling device approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of HHS in accordance with part 74 (Coal Mine Dust Sampling Devices) of this title.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Labor or a delegate.
Surface area.
A specific physical portion of a surface coal mine or surface area of an underground coal mine. These areas are assigned a four-digit identification number by MSHA.
Surface coal mine.
A surface area of land and all structures, facilities, machinery, tools, equipment, excavations, and other property, real or personal, placed upon or above the surface of such land by any person, used in, or to
be used in, or resulting from, the work of extracting in such area bituminous coal, lignite, or anthracite from its natural deposits in the earth by any means or method, and the work of preparing the coal so extracted, including custom coal preparation facilities.
Surface installation.
Any structure in which miners work at a surface coal mine or surface work area of an underground coal mine.
Surface work area of an underground mine.
The surface areas of land and all structures, facilities, machinery, tools, equipment, shafts, slopes, excavations, and other property, real or personal, placed in, upon or above the surface of such land by any person, used in, or to be used in, or resulting from, the work of extracting bituminous coal, lignite, or anthracite from its natural deposits underground by any means or method, and the work of preparing the coal so extracted, including custom coal preparation facilities.
Surface worksite.
Any area in which miners work at a surface coal mine or surface work area of an underground coal mine.
Valid respirable dust sample.
A respirable dust sample collected and submitted as required by this part, including any sample for which the data were electronically transmitted to MSHA, and not voided by MSHA.
Work position.
An occupation identified by an MSHA three-digit code number describing a location to which a miner is assigned in the performance of his or her normal duties.
[79 FR 24980, May 1, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 28476, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart B—Dust Standards

# Source:
79 FR 24981, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.100
Respirable dust standard.
Each operator shall continuously maintain the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which each miner in the active workings of each mine is exposed, as measured with an approved sampling device and expressed in terms of an equivalent concentration, at or below:
(a) 2.0 milligrams of respirable dust per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
).
(b) 1.5 mg/m
3
as of August 1, 2016.
§ 71.101
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures

# Source:
79 FR 24982, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
(a) Each operator shall take representative samples of the concentration of respirable dust in the active workings of the mine as required by this part only with an approved CMDPSU. On February 1, 2016, the operator may use an approved CPDM if the operator notifies the District Manager in writing that only an approved CPDM will be used for all DWP sampling at the mine. The notification must be received at least 90 days before the beginning of the quarter in which CPDMs will be used to collect the DWP samples.
(b) Sampling devices shall be worn or carried directly to and from the DWP to be sampled. Sampling devices shall remain with the DWP and shall be operational during the entire shift, which includes the total time spent in the DWP and while traveling to and from the DWP being sampled. If the work shift to be sampled is longer than 12 hours and the sampling device is:
(1) A CMDPSU, the operator shall switch-out the unit's sampling pump prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(2) A CPDM, the operator shall switch-out the CPDM with a fully charged device prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(c) If using a CMDPSU, one control filter shall be used for each shift of sampling. Each control filter shall:
(1) Have the same pre-weight data (noted on the dust data card) as the filters used for sampling;
(2) Remain plugged at all times;
(3) Be used for the same amount of time, and exposed to the same temperature and handling conditions as the filters used for sampling; and
(4) Be kept with the exposed samples after sampling and in the same mailing container when transmitted to MSHA.
(d) Records showing the length of each normal work shift for each DWP shall be made and retained for at least six months and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners, and submitted to the District Manager when requested in writing.
(e) Upon request from the District Manager, the operator shall submit the date and time any respirable dust sampling required by this part will begin. This information shall be submitted at least 48 hours prior to scheduled sampling.
(f) Upon written request by the operator, the District Manager may waive the rain restriction for a normal work shift as defined in § 71.2 for a period not to exceed two months, if the District Manager determines that:
(1) The operator will not have reasonable opportunity to complete the respirable dust sampling required by this part without the waiver because of the frequency of rain; and
(2) The operator did not have reasonable opportunity to complete the respirable dust sampling required by this part prior to requesting the waiver.
(g) Operators using CPDMs shall provide training to all miners expected to wear the CPDM. The training shall be completed prior to a miner wearing the CPDM and then every 12 months thereafter. The training shall include:
(1) The importance of monitoring dust concentrations and properly wearing the CPDM;
(2) Explaining the basic features and capabilities of the CPDM;
(3) Discussing the various types of information displayed by the CPDM and how to access that information; and
(4) How to start and stop a short-term sample run during compliance sampling.
(h) An operator shall keep a record of the CPDM training at the mine site for 24 months after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission. Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary, Secretary of HHS, or representative of miners, the operator shall promptly provide access to any such training records. The record shall include:
(1) The date of training;
(2) The names of miners trained; and
(3) The subjects included in the training.
§ 71.202
Certified person; sampling.
(a) The respirable dust sampling required by this part shall be performed by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures. Persons not certified in sampling, and those certified only in maintenance and calibration procedures in accordance with § 71.203(b), are not permitted to collect respirable dust samples required by this part or handle approved sampling devices when being used in sampling.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required sampling procedures.
§ 71.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained and calibrated by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures for approved sampling devices. Necessary maintenance of the sampling head assembly of a CMDPSU, or the cyclone assembly of a CPDM, can be performed by persons certified in sampling or maintenance and calibration.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required maintenance and calibration procedures.
§ 71.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained as approved under part 74 of this chapter and calibrated in accordance with MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996) “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers” or in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations if using a CPDM. Only persons certified in maintenance and calibration can perform maintenance work on the CPDM or on the pump unit of the CMDPSU.
(b) Sampling devices shall be calibrated at the flowrate of 2.0 liters of air per minute (L/min) if using a CMDPSU, or at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM, or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer, before they are put into service and, thereafter, at time intervals recommended by the manufacturer or prescribed by the Secretary or Secretary of HHS.
(c) If using a CMDPSU, sampling devices shall be examined and tested by a person certified in sampling or in maintenance and calibration within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the approved sampling devices will be used to collect respirable dust samples. This is to assure that the sampling devices are clean and in proper working condition. This examination and testing shall include the following:
(1) Examination of all components of the cyclone assembly to assure that they are clean and free of dust and dirt. This includes examining the interior of the connector barrel (located between the cassette assembly and vortex finder), vortex finder, cyclone body, and grit pot;
(2) Examination of the inner surface of the cyclone body to assure that it is free of scoring or scratch marks on the inner surface of the cyclone where the air flow is directed by the vortex finder into the cyclone body;
(3) Examination of the external hose connecting the pump unit to the sampling head assembly to assure that it is clean and free of leaks; and
(4) Examination of the clamping and positioning of the cyclone body, vortex finder, and cassette to assure that they are rigid, in alignment, firmly in contact, and airtight.
(5) Testing the voltage of each battery while under actual load to assure the battery is fully charged. This requires that a fully assembled and examined sampling head assembly be attached to the pump inlet with the pump unit running when the voltage check is made. The voltage for the batteries used in the CMDPSU shall not be lower than the product of the number of cells in the battery multiplied by the manufacturer's nominal voltage per cell value.
(d) If using a CPDM, the certified person in sampling or in maintenance and calibration shall:
(1) Follow the pre-operational examinations, testing, and set-up procedures, and perform necessary external maintenance recommended by the manufacturer to assure the operational readiness of the CPDM within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the sampling devices will be used to collect respirable dust samples; and
(2) Perform other required scheduled examinations and maintenance procedures recommended by the manufacturer.
(e) You must proceed in accordance with “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers,” MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996), referenced in paragraph (a) of this section. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the MSHA Web site at
http://www.msha.gov
and you may inspect or obtain a copy at MSHA, Coal Mine Safety and Health, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9500; and at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[79 FR 24982, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 71.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be operated at the flowrate of 2.0 L/min, if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min, if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer.
(b) If using a CMDPSU, each sampling device shall be examined each shift by a person certified in sampling during:
(1) The second hour after being put into operation to assure it is in the proper location, operating properly, and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, necessary adjustments shall be made by the certified person.
(2) The last hour of operation to assure that it is operating properly and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the certified person on the back of the dust data card stating that the proper flowrate was not maintained. Other events occurring during the collection of respirable dust samples that may affect the validity of the sample, such as dropping of the sampling head assembly onto the mine floor, shall be noted on the back of the dust data card.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall monitor the dust concentrations and the sampling status conditions being reported by the sampling device at mid-shift or more frequently as specified in the approved respirable dust control plan, if applicable, to assure: The sampling device is in the proper location and operating properly; and the work environment of the occupation being sampled remains in compliance with the standard at the end of the shift.
[89 FR 28476, 28477, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 71.206
Quarterly sampling; designated work positions.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Each operator shall take one valid representative sample from the DWP during each quarterly period. The quarterly periods are:
(1) January 1-March 31
(2) April 1-June 30
(3) July 1-September 30
(4) October 1-December 31.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Designated work position samples shall be collected at locations to measure respirable dust generation sources in the active workings. The specific work positions at each mine where DWP samples shall be collected include:
(1) Each highwall drill operator (MSHA occupation code 384);
(2) Bulldozer operators (MSHA occupation code 368); and
(3) Other work positions designated by the District Manager for sampling in accordance with § 71.206(m).
(d) Operators with multiple work positions specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall sample the DWP exposed to the greatest respirable dust concentration in each work position performing the same activity or task at the same location at the mine and exposed to the same dust generation source. Each operator shall provide the District Manager with a list identifying the specific work positions where DWP samples will be collected for:
(1) Active mines—by October 1, 2014.
(2) New mines—Within 30 calendar days of mine opening.
(3) DWPs with a change in operational status that increases or reduces the number of active DWPs—within 7 calendar days of the change in status.
(e) Each DWP sample shall be taken on a normal work shift. If a normal work shift is not achieved, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the person certified in sampling on the back of the dust data card stating that the sample was not taken on a normal work shift. When a normal work shift is not achieved, the sample for that shift may be voided by MSHA. However, any sample, regardless of whether a normal work shift was achieved, that exceeds the standard by at least 0.1 mg/m
3
shall be used in the determination of the equivalent concentration for that occupation.
(f) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, DWP samples shall be taken by placing the sampling device as follows:
(1)
Equipment operator:
On the equipment operator or on the equipment within 36 inches of the operator's normal working position.
(2)
Non-equipment operators:
On the miner assigned to the DWP or at a location that represents the maximum concentration of dust to which the miner is exposed.
(g) Upon notification from MSHA that any valid representative sample taken from a DWP to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the standard, the operator shall, within 15 calendar days of notification, sample that DWP each normal work shift until five valid representative samples are taken. The operator shall begin sampling on the first normal work shift following receipt of notification.
(h) When a valid representative sample taken in accordance with this section meets or exceeds the excessive concentration value (ECV) in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used, the mine operator shall:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(i) Noncompliance with the standard is demonstrated during the sampling period when:
(1) Two or more valid representative samples meet or exceed the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used; or
(2) The average for all valid representative samples meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used.
(j) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to that DWP until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section.
(k) Upon issuance of a citation for violation of the standard, the operator shall take the following actions sequentially:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(4) Begin sampling, within 8 calendar days after the date the citation is issued, the environment of the affected DWP on consecutive normal work shifts until five valid representative samples are taken.
(l) A citation for violation of the standard shall be terminated by MSHA when the equivalent concentration of each of the five valid representative samples is at or below the standard.
(m) The District Manager may designate for sampling under this section additional work positions at a surface coal mine and at a surface work area of
an underground coal mine where a concentration of respirable dust exceeding 50 percent of the standard has been measured by one or more MSHA valid representative samples.
(n) The District Manager may withdraw from sampling any DWP designated for sampling under paragraph (m) of this section upon finding that the operator is able to maintain continuing compliance with the standard. This finding shall be based on the results of MSHA and operator valid representative samples taken during at least a 12-month period.
Table 1 to § 71.206—Excessive Concentration Values (ECV) Based on a Single Sample, Two Samples, or the Average of Five Full-Shift CMDPSU/CPDM Concentration Measurements
Section
Samples
ECV (mg/m
3
)
CMDPSU
CPDM
71.206(h)
Single sample
1.79
1.70
71.206(i)(1)
2 or more samples
1.79
1.70
71.206(i)(2)
5 sample average
1.63
1.59
71.206(l)
Each of 5 samples
1.79
1.70
[89 FR 28477, 28478, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 71.207
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
(a) If using a CMDPSU, the operator shall transmit within 24 hours after the end of the sampling shift all samples collected to fulfill the requirements of this part, including control filters, in containers provided by the manufacturer of the filter cassette to: Respirable Dust Processing Laboratory, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 38, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611, or to any other address designated by the District Manager.
(b) The operator shall not open or tamper with the seal of any filter cassette or alter the weight of any filter cassette before or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part.
(c) A person certified in sampling shall properly complete the dust data card that is provided by the manufacturer for each filter cassette. The card shall have an identification number identical to that on the cassette used to take the sample and be submitted to MSHA with the sample. Each card shall be signed by the certified person who actually performed the required examinations under 71.205(b) of this part during the sampling shift and shall include that person's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN). Respirable dust samples with data cards not properly completed may be voided by MSHA.
(d) All respirable dust samples collected by the operator shall be considered taken to fulfill the sampling requirements of part 70, 71, or 90 of this title, unless the sample has been identified in writing by the operator to the District Manager, prior to the intended sampling shift, as a sample to be used for purposes other than required by part 70, 71, or 90 of this title.
(e) Respirable dust samples received by MSHA in excess of those required by this part shall be considered invalid samples.
(f) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall (1) validate, certify, and transmit electronically to MSHA within 24 hours after the end of each sampling shift all sample data file information collected and stored in the CPDM, including the sampling status conditions encountered when sampling each DWP; and (2) not tamper with the CPDM or its components in any way before, during, or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part, or alter any sample data files. All CPDM data files transmitted electronically to MSHA shall be maintained by the operator for at least 12 months.
[79 FR 24982, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 71.208
Respirable dust samples; report to operator; posting.
(a) MSHA shall provide the operator, as soon as practicable, a report with the following data on respirable dust samples submitted or whose results were transmitted electronically, if using a CPDM, in accordance with this part:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The DWP at the mine from which the samples were taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration for each valid sample;
(4) The average equivalent concentration of respirable dust for all valid samples;
(5) The occupation code; and
(6) The reason for voiding any sample.
(b) Upon receipt, the operator shall post this data for at least 31 days on the mine bulletin board.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall, within 12 hours after the end of each sampling shift, print, sign, and post on the mine bulletin board a paper record (Dust Data Card) of each sample run. This hard-copy record shall include the data entered when the sample run was first programmed, and the following:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The DWP at the mine from which the samples were taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration reported and stored for each sample;
(4) The sampling status conditions encountered for each sample; and
(5) The shift length.
(d) The information required by paragraph (c) of this section shall remain posted until receipt of the MSHA report covering these respirable dust samples.
§ 71.209
Status change reports.
(a) If there is a change in operational status that affects the respirable dust sampling requirements of this part, the operator shall report the change in operational status of the mine or DWP to the MSHA District Office or to any other MSHA office designated by the District Manager. Status changes shall be reported in writing or electronically within 3 working days after the status change has occurred.
(b) Each specific operational status is defined as follows:
(1) Underground mine:
(i) Producing—has at least one mechanized mining unit producing material.
(ii) Nonproducing—no material is being produced.
(iii) Abandoned—the work of all miners has been terminated and production activity has ceased.
(2) Surface mine:
(i) Producing—normal activity is occurring and coal is being produced or processed or other material or equipment is being handled or moved.
(ii) Nonproducing—normal activity is not occurring and coal is not being produced or processed, and other material or equipment is not being handled or moved.
(iii) Abandoned—the work of all miners has been terminated and all activity has ceased.
(3) DWP:
(i) Producing—normal activity is occurring.
(ii) Nonproducing—normal activity is not occurring.
(iii) Abandoned—the dust generating source has been withdrawn and activity has ceased.

# Subpart D—Respirable Dust Control Plans

# Source:
79 FR 24985, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.300
Respirable dust control plan; filing requirements.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Within 15 calendar days after the termination date of a citation for violation of the standard, the operator shall submit to the District Manager for approval a written respirable dust control plan applicable to the DWP identified in the citation. The respirable dust control plan and revisions thereof shall be suitable to the conditions and the mining system of the coal mine and shall be adequate to continuously maintain respirable dust to at or below the standard at the DWP identified in the citation.
(1) The mine operator shall notify the representative of miners at least 5 days prior to submission of a respirable dust control plan and any revision to a dust control plan. If requested, the mine operator shall provide a copy to the representative of miners at the time of notification;
(2) A copy of the proposed respirable dust control plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and
(3) A copy of the proposed respirable dust control plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be posted on the mine bulletin board at the time of submittal. The proposed plan or proposed revision shall remain posted until it is approved, withdrawn, or denied.
(4) Following receipt of the proposed plan or proposed revision, the representative of miners may submit timely comments to the District Manager, in writing, for consideration during the review process. Upon request, a copy of these comments shall be provided to the operator by the District Manager.
(b) Each respirable dust control plan shall include at least the following:
(1) The mine identification number and DWP number assigned by MSHA, the operator's name, mine name, mine address, and mine telephone number and the name, address, and telephone number of the principal officer in charge of health and safety at the mine;
(2) The specific DWP at the mine to which the plan applies;
(3) A detailed description of the specific respirable dust control measures used to abate the violation of the respirable dust standard; and
(4) A detailed description of how each of the respirable dust control measures described in response to paragraph (b)(3) of this section will continue to be used by the operator, including at least the specific time, place and manner the control measures will be used.
[89 FR 28478, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 71.301
Respirable dust control plan; approval by District Manager and posting.
As of April 8, 2026:
(a) The District Manager will approve respirable dust control plans on a mine-by-mine basis. When approving respirable dust control plans, the District Manager shall consider whether:
(1) The respirable dust control measures would be likely to maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust at or below the standard; and
(2) The operator's compliance with all provisions of the respirable dust control plan could be objectively ascertained by MSHA.
(b) MSHA may take respirable dust samples to determine whether the respirable dust control measures in the operator's plan effectively maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust at or below the applicable standard.
(c) The operator shall comply with all provisions of each respirable dust control plan upon notice from MSHA that the respirable dust control plan is approved.
(d) The approved respirable dust control plan and any revisions shall be:
(1) Provided upon request to the representative of miners by the operator following notification of approval;
(2) Made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and
(3) Posted on the mine bulletin board within 1 working day following notification of approval, and shall remain posted for the period that the plan is in effect.
(e) The operator may review respirable dust control plans and submit proposed revisions to such plans to the District Manager for approval.
[89 FR 28478, 28479, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart E—Surface Bathing Facilities, Change Rooms, and Sanitary Flush Toilet Facilities at Surface Coal Mines
§ 71.400
Bathing facilities; change rooms; sanitary flush toilet facilities.
Each operator of a surface coal mine shall provide bathing facilities, clothing change rooms, and sanitary flush
toilet facilities, as hereinafter prescribed, for the use of miners employed in the surface installations and at the surface worksites of such mine. (
Note:
Sanitary facilities at surface work areas of underground mines are subject to the provisions of § 75.1712 of this chapter
et seq.
)
§ 71.401
Location of facilities.
Bathhouses, change rooms, and sanitary flush toilet facilities shall be in a location convenient for the use of the miners. Where these facilities are designed to serve more than one mine, they shall be centrally located so as to be convenient for the use of all miners served by the facilities.
§ 71.402
Minimum requirements for bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary flush toilet facilities.
(a) All bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary flush toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate light, heat, and ventilation so as to maintain a comfortable air temperature and to minimize the accumulation of moisture and odors, and the facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b) Bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary flush toilet facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to comply with applicable State and local building codes. However, where no State or local building codes apply to these facilities, or where no State or local building codes exist, the facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to meet the minimum construction requirements in the National Building Code (1967 edition) and the plumbing requirements in the National Plumbing Code (ASA A40.8-1955), which documents are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. These documents are available for examination at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at every MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office. Copies of the National Plumbing Code (ASA A40.8-1955) may be purchased from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036;
http://www.ansi.org.
(c) In addition to the minimum requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, facilities maintained in accordance with § 71.400 shall include the following:
(1)
Bathing facilities.
(i) Showers shall be provided with both hot and cold water.
(ii) At least one shower head shall be provided where five or less miners use such showers.
(iii) Where five or more miners use such showers, sufficient showers shall be furnished to provide approximately one shower head for each five miners.
(iv) A suitable nonirritating cleansing agent shall be provided for use at each shower.
(2)
Sanitary flush toilet facilities.
(i) At least one sanitary flush toilet shall be provided where 10 or less miners use such toilet facilities.
(ii) Where 10 or more miners use such toilet facilities, sufficient flush toilets shall be furnished to provide approximately one sanitary flush toilet for each 10 miners.
(iii) Where 30 or more miners use toilet facilities, one urinal may be substituted for one flush toilet, however, where such substitutions are made they shall not reduce the number of toilets below a ratio of two flush toilets to one urinal.
(iv) An adequate supply of toilet paper shall be provided with each toilet.
(v) Adequate handwashing facilities or hand lavatories shall be provided in or adjacent to each toilet facility.
(3)
Change rooms.
(i) Individual clothes storage containers or lockers shall be provided for storage of miners' clothing and other incidental personal belongings during and between shifts.
(ii) Change rooms shall be provided with sample space to permit the use of such facilities by all miners changing clothes prior to and after each shift.
[37 FR 6368, Mar. 28, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 12319, Mar. 24, 1978; 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52989, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 71.403
Waiver of surface facilities requirements; posting of waiver.
(a) The Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager for the district in
which the mine is located, after consultation with the appropriate Regional Program Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, may, upon written application by the operator, and after consideration of any comments filed within 30 days after receipt of the application, waive any or all of the requirements for §§ 71.400 through 71.402 for a period not to exceed 1 year if he determines that—
(1) The operator is providing or making available, under arrangements with one or more third parties, facilities which are at least equivalent to those required by the standards, or
(2) It is impractical for the operator to meet the requirement(s) or provide the facility (facilities) for which the waiver is sought.
(b) The waiver shall be in writing and shall set forth the requirement(s) which the operator will not be required to meet or the facilities which the operator will not be required to provide and the specific reason or reasons for such waiver.
(c) Upon receipt of any waiver, the operator shall post a copy of the waiver for at least 30 days on the mine bulletin board required by section 107(a) of the Act.
(d) An extension of the waiver at the end of 1 year may be sought by the operator by filing an application pursuant to § 71.404 no later than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the expiration date of the waiver.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[37 FR 6368, Mar. 28, 1972, as amended at 47 FR 14696, Apr. 6, 1982; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 71.404
Application for waiver of surface facilities requirements.
(a) Application for waivers of any requirements of §§ 71.400 through 71.402 shall be in writing, filed with the appropriate Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager, and shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the mine operator,
(2) The name and location of the mine, and
(3) A detailed statement of the grounds upon which the waiver is requested and the period of time for which it is requested.
(b) At the same time the application is sent to the District Manager, a copy of the application shall be forwarded to the appropriate Regional Program Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health by the operator, and a copy showing the addresses of the appropriate District Manager and Regional Program Director shall be posted by the operator for at least 30 days on the mine bulletin board required by section 107(a) of the Act.

# Subpart F—Sanitary Toilet Facilities at Surface Worksites of Surface Coal Mines
§ 71.500
Sanitary toilet facilities at surface work sites; installation requirements.
(a) Each operator of a surface coal mine shall provide and install at least one sanitary toilet in a location convenient to each surface work site. A single sanitary toilet may serve two or more surface work sites in the same surface mine where the sanitary toilet is convenient to each such work site.
(b) Where 10 or more miners use such toilet facilities, sufficient toilets shall be furnished to provide approximately one sanitary toilet for each 10 miners.
(c) Sanitary toilets shall have an attached toilet seat with a hinged lid and a toilet paper holder together with an adequate supply of toilet tissue.
(d) Only flush or nonflush chemical or biological toilets, combustion or incinerating toilets, sealed bag toilets, and vault toilets meet the requirements of this section. Privies are prohibited.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Sanitary toilet facilities for surface work areas of underground mines are subject to the provisions of § 75.1712-3 of this chapter.)
[68 FR 37087, June 23, 2003]
§ 71.501
Sanitary toilet facilities; maintenance.
Sanitary toilets provided in accordance with the provisions of § 71.500 shall be regularly maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Holding tanks shall be serviced and cleaned when full and in no case less than once each week
when in use by draining or pumping or by removing them for cleaning and recharging. Transfer tanks and transfer equipment, if used, shall be equipped with suitable fittings to permit complete draining without spillage and allow for the sanitary transportation of wastes. Waste shall be disposed of in accordance with State and local laws and regulations.

# Subpart G—Drinking Water
§ 71.600
Drinking water; general.
An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided for drinking purposes in each surface installation and at each surface worksite of the mine.
§ 71.601
Drinking water; quality.
(a) Potable water provided in accordance with the provisions of § 71.600 shall meet the applicable minimum health requirements for drinking water established by the State or community in which the mine is located.
(b) Where no such requirements are applicable, the drinking water provided shall conform to the Public Health Service Drinking Water Standards, 42 CFR part 72, subpart J.
§ 71.602
Drinking water; distribution.
(a) Water shall be piped or transported in sanitary containers. Water systems and appurtenances thereto shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with State and local requirements. Where no such requirements are applicable, water systems and appurtenances shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the National Plumbing Code (ASA A40.8—1955) which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. (For information as to the availability of this code, see § 71.402(b).)
(b) Water transported to the site shall be carried, stored and otherwise protected in sanitary containers constructed of smooth, impervious, heavy gauge, corrosion resistant materials. The containers shall be marked with the words “Drinking Water.”
§ 71.603
Drinking water; dispensing requirements.
(a) Water shall be dispensed through a drinking fountain or from a water storage container with an adequate supply of single service cups stored in a clean, sanitary manner. Water shall not be dipped from inside water storage containers. Use of a common drinking cup is prohibited.
(b) Water containers shall remain sealed at all times during use and shall not be refilled with water for reuse without first being cleaned and disinfected with the use of heat or sanitizers.
(c) Drinking fountains from which water is dispensed shall be thoroughly cleaned once each week.
(d) Ice used for cooling drinking water shall not be immersed or in direct contact with the water to be cooled, unless it has been handled in a sanitary manner and unless the ice is made from the same source as the drinking water or from water of a quality equal to the source of the drinking water.

# Subpart H—Airborne Contaminants
§ 71.700
Inhalation hazards; threshold limit values for gases, dust, fumes, mists, and vapors.
(a) No operator of an underground coal mine and no operator of a surface coal mine may permit any person working at a surface installation or surface worksite to be exposed to airborne contaminants (other than respirable coal mine dust, respirable dust containing quartz, and asbestos dust) in excess of, on the basis of a time-weighted average, the threshold limit values adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists in “Threshold Limit Values of Airborne Contaminants” (1972), which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. Excursions above the listed threshold limit values shall not be of greater magnitude than is characterized as permissible by the conference. This paragraph does not apply to airborne contaminants given a “C” designation by the conference in the document. This document is available for examination at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at every MSHA Coal Mine Safety and
Health District Office. Copies of the document may be purchased from the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 1330 Kemper Meadow Drive, Attn: Customer Service, Cincinnati, OH 45240; 513-742-2020;
http://www.acgih.org.
(b) All persons, including employees, shall be withdrawn from any area in which there is a concentration of an airborne contaminant given a “C” designation by the Conference which exceeds the threshold limit value (ceiling “C” limit) listed for that contaminant.
[37 FR 6368, Mar. 28, 1972, as amended at 39 FR 17101, May 13, 1974; 43 FR 12319, Mar. 24, 1978. Redesignated at 45 FR 80756, Dec. 5, 1980, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52990, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 71.701
Sampling; general requirements.
(a) Air samples will be taken by the Secretary and will be analyzed to determine the concentrations of noxious or poisonous gases, dusts, fumes, mists, and vapors in surface installations and at surface worksites.
(b) Upon written notification by the Secretary to the operator of an underground coal mine or of a surface coal mine, the operator shall conduct any additional air sampling tests and analyses as the Secretary may from time to time require in order to ensure compliance with the standards set forth in § 71.700 in each surface installation and at each surface worksite.
(c) Where concentrations of airborne contaminants in excess of the applicable threshold limit values, permissible exposure limits, or permissible excursions are known by the operator to exist in a surface installation or at a surface worksite, the operator shall immediately provide necessary control measures to assure compliance with § 71.700 or § 71.702, as applicable.
(d) Where the operator has reasonable grounds to believe that concentrations of airborne contaminants in excess of the applicable threshold limit values, permissible exposure limits, or permissible excursions exist, or are likely to exist, the operator shall promptly conduct appropriate air sampling tests to determine the concentration of any airborne contaminant which may be present and immediately provide the necessary control measures to assure compliance with § 71.700 or § 71.702, as applicable.
[37 FR 6368, Mar. 28, 1972. Redesignated at 45 FR 80756, Dec. 5, 1980; 73 FR 11304, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 71.702
Asbestos standard.
(a)
Definitions.
Asbestos is a generic term for a number of asbestiform hydrated silicates that, when crushed or processed, separate into flexible fibers made up of fibrils.
Asbestos
means chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), crocidolite, anthophylite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, and actinolite asbestos.
Asbestos fiber
means a fiber of asbestos that meets the criteria of a fiber.
Fiber
means a particle longer than 5 micrometers (µm) with a length-to-diameter ratio of at least 3-to-1.
(b)
Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs)
—(1)
Full-shift limit.
A miner's personal exposure to asbestos shall not exceed an 8-hour time-weighted average full-shift airborne concentration of 0.1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc).
(2)
Excursion limit.
No miner shall be exposed at any time to airborne concentrations of asbestos in excess of 1 fiber per cubic centimeter of air (f/cc) as averaged over a sampling period of 30 minutes.
(c)
Measurement of airborne asbestos fiber concentration.
Potential asbestos fiber concentration shall be determined by phase contrast microscopy (PCM) using the OSHA Reference Method in OSHA's asbestos standard found in 29 CFR 1910.1001, Appendix A, or a method at least equivalent to that method in identifying a potential asbestos exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit. When PCM results indicate a potential exposure exceeding the 0.1 f/cc full-shift limit or the 1 f/cc excursion limit, samples shall be further analyzed using transmission electron microscopy according to NIOSH Method 7402 or a method at least equivalent to that method.
[73 FR 11304, Feb. 29, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 66172, Nov. 7, 2008]
Pt. 72

# PART 72—HEALTH STANDARDS FOR COAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
72.1
Scope.

# Subpart B—Medical Surveillance
72.100
Periodic examinations.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Diesel Particulate Matter—Underground Areas of Underground Coal Mines
72.500
Emission limits for permissible diesel-powered equipment.
72.501
Emission limits for nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment, generators and compressors.
72.502
Requirements for nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment other than generators and compressors.
72.503
Determination of emissions; filter maintenance; definition of “introduced”.
72.510
Miner health training.
72.520
Diesel equipment inventory.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
72.610
Abrasive blasting.
72.620
Drill dust control at surface mines and surface areas of underground mines.
72.630
Drill dust control at underground areas of underground mines.
72.700
Respiratory equipment; respirable dust.
72.701
Respiratory equipment; gas, dusts, fumes, or mists.
72.710
Selection, fit, use, and maintenance of approved respirators.
72.800
Single, full-shift measurement of respirable coal mine dust.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h), 957.

# Source:
59 FR 8327, Feb. 18, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 72.1
Scope.
The health standards in this part apply to all coal mines.

# Subpart B—Medical Surveillance

# Source:
79 FR 24986, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.100
Periodic examinations.
(a) Each operator of a coal mine shall provide to each miner periodic examinations including chest x-rays, spirometry, symptom assessment, and occupational history at a frequency specified in this section and at no cost to the miner.
(1) Each operator shall use facilities approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to provide examinations specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The results of examinations or tests made pursuant to this section shall be furnished only to the Secretary, Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), and at the request of the miner, to the miner's designated physician.
(b)
Voluntary examinations.
Each operator shall provide the opportunity to have the examinations specified in § 72.100(a) at least every 5 years to all miners employed at a coal mine. The examinations shall be available during a 6-month period that begins no less than 3.5 years and not more than 4.5 years from the end of the last 6-month period.
(c)
Mandatory examinations.
For each miner who begins work at a coal mine for the first time, the operator shall provide examinations specified in § 72.100(a) as follows:
(1) An initial examination no later than 30 days after beginning employment;
(2) A follow-up examination no later than 3 years after the initial examination in paragraph (c)(1); and
(3) A follow-up examination no later than 2 years after the examinations in paragraph (c)(2) if the chest x-ray shows evidence of pneumoconiosis or the spirometry examination indicates evidence of decreased lung function. For this purpose, evidential criteria will be defined by NIOSH.
(d) Each mine operator shall develop and submit for approval to NIOSH a plan in accordance with 42 CFR part 37 for providing miners with the examinations specified in § 72.100(a) and a roster specifying the name and current address of each miner covered by the plan.
(e) Each mine operator shall post on the mine bulletin board at all times
the approved plan for providing the examinations specified in § 72.100(a).
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Diesel Particulate Matter—Underground Areas of Underground Coal Mines

# Source:
66 FR 5704, Jan. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.500
Emission limits for permissible diesel-powered equipment.
(a) Each piece of permissible diesel-powered equipment introduced into an underground area of an underground coal mine after May 21, 2001 must emit no more than 2.5 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
(b) As of July 19, 2002, each piece of permissible diesel-powered equipment operated in an underground area of an underground coal mine must emit no more than 2.5 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
[66 FR 5704, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 15033, Mar. 15, 2001; 66 FR 27866, May 21, 2001]
§ 72.501
Emission limits for nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment, generators and compressors.
(a) Each piece of nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment (as defined by § 75.1908(a) of this part), generator or compressor introduced into an underground area of an underground coal mine after May 21, 2001 must emit no more than 5.0 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
(b) As of July 21, 2003, each piece of nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment (as defined by § 75.1908(a) of this part), generator or compressor operated in an underground area of an underground coal mine must emit no more than 5.0 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
(c) As of January 19, 2005, each piece of nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment (as defined by § 75.1908(a) of this part), generator or compressor operated in an underground area of an underground coal mine must emit no more than 2.5 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
(d) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, a generator or compressor that discharges its exhaust directly into intake air that is coursed directly to a return air course, or discharges its exhaust directly into a return air course, is not subject to the applicable requirements of this section.
[66 FR 5704, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 15033, Mar. 15, 2001; 66 FR 27866, May 21, 2001]
§ 72.502
Requirements for nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment other than generators and compressors.
(a) Each piece of nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment (as defined by § 75.1908(b) of this chapter), other than generators and compressors, introduced into an underground area of an underground coal mine after May 21, 2001 must emit no more than 5.0 grams per hour of diesel particulate matter.
(b) A piece of nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment must be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if it utilizes an engine which meets or exceeds the applicable particulate matter emission requirements of the Environmental Protection Administration listed in Table 72.502-1, as follows:
Table 72.502-1
EPA requirement
EPA category
PM limit
40 CFR 86.094-8(a)(1)(I)(A)(2)
light duty vehicle
0.1 g/mile.
40 CFR 86.094-9(a)(1)(I)(A)(2)
light duty truck
0.1 g/mile.
40 CFR 86.094-11(a)(1)(iv)(B)
heavy duty highway engine
0.1 g/bhp-hr.
40 CFR 89.112(a)
Tier 2 nonroad
Varies by power:
kW
(hp
11)
0.80 g/kW-hr (0.60 g/bhp-hr).
8≤kW
19 (11≤hp
25)
0.80 g/kW-hr (0.60 g/bhp-hr).
19≤kW
37 (25≤hp
50)
0.60 g/kW-hr (0.45 g/bhp-hr).
37≤kW
75 (50≤hp
100)
0.40 g/kW-hr (0.30 g/bhp-hr).
75≤kW
130 (100≤hp
175)
0.30 g/kW-hr (0.22 g/bhp-hr).
130≤kW
225 (175≤hp
300)
0.20 g/kW-hr (0.15 g/bhp-hr).
225≤kW
450 (300≤hp
600)
0.20 g/kW-hr (0.15 g/bhp-hr).
450≤kW
560 (600≤hp
750)”
0.20 g/kW-hr (0.15 g/bhp-hr)
kW≥560 (hp≥750)
0.20 g/kW-hr (0.15 g/bhp-hr)
Notes:
“g” means grams; “kW” means kilowatt; “hp” means horsepower; “g/kW-hr” means grams/kilowatt-hour; “g/bhp-hr” means grams/brake horsepower-hour.
(c) The requirements of this section do not apply to any diesel-powered ambulance or fire fighting equipment that is being used in accordance with the mine fire fighting and evacuation plan under § 75.1502.
[66 FR 5704, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 15033, Mar. 15, 2001; 66 FR 27866, May 21, 2001; 70 FR 36347, June 23, 2005]
§ 72.503
Determination of emissions; filter maintenance; definition of “introduced”.
(a) MSHA will determine compliance with the emission requirements established by this part by using the amount of diesel particulate matter emitted by a particular engine determined from the engine approval pursuant to § 7.89(a)(9)(iii)(B) or § 7.89(a)(9)(iv)(A) of this title, with the exception of engines deemed to be in compliance by meeting the EPA requirements specified in Table 72.502-1 (§ 72.502(b)).
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the amount by which an aftertreatment device can reduce engine emissions of diesel particulate matter as determined pursuant to paragraph (a) must be established by a laboratory test:
(1) on an approved engine which MSHA has determined, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, to emit no more diesel particulate matter than the engine being used in the piece of diesel-powered equipment in question;
(2) using the test cycle specified in Table E-3 of § 7.89 of this title, and following a test procedure appropriate for the filtration system, by a laboratory capable of testing engines in accordance with the requirements of Subpart E of part 7 of this title; and
(3) with an aftertreatment device representative of that being used on the piece of diesel-powered equipment in question.
(c) In lieu of the laboratory tests required by paragraph (b), the Secretary may accept the results of tests conducted or certified by an organization whose testing standards are deemed by the Secretary to be as rigorous as those set forth by paragraph (b) of this section; and further, the Secretary may accept the results of tests for one aftertreatment device as evidencing the efficiency of another aftertreatment device which the Secretary determines to be essentially identical to the one tested.
(d) Operators must maintain in accordance with manufacturer specifications and free of observable defects, any aftertreatment device installed on a piece of diesel equipment upon which the operator relies to remove diesel particulate matter from diesel emissions.
(e) For purposes of §§ 72.500(a), 72.501(a) and 72.502(a), the term “introduced” means any piece of equipment whose engine is a new addition to the underground inventory of engines of the mine in question, including newly purchased equipment, used equipment, and equipment receiving a replacement engine that has a different serial number than the engine it is replacing. “Introduced” does not include a piece of equipment whose engine was previously part of the mine inventory and rebuilt.
§ 72.510
Miner health training.
(a) Operators must provide annual training to all miners at a mine who can reasonably be expected to be exposed to diesel emissions on that property. The training must include—
(1) The health risks associated with exposure to diesel particulate matter;
(2) The methods used in the mine to control diesel particulate matter concentrations;
(3) Identification of the personnel responsible for maintaining those controls; and
(4) Actions miners must take to ensure the controls operate as intended.
(b)(1) An operator must keep a record of the training at the mine site for one year after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission.
(2) Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or from the authorized representative of miners, mine operators must promptly provide access to any such training record. Whenever an operator ceases to do business, that operator must transfer the training records, or a copy, to any successor operator who must maintain them for the required period.
§ 72.520
Diesel equipment inventory.
(a) The operator of each mine that utilizes diesel equipment underground, shall prepare and submit in writing to the District Manager, an inventory of diesel equipment used in the mine. The inventory shall include the number and type of diesel-powered units used underground, including make and model of unit, type of equipment, make and model of engine, serial number of engine, brake horsepower rating of engine, emissions of engine in grams per hour or grams per brake horsepower-hour, approval number of engine, make and model of aftertreatment device, serial number of aftertreatment device if available, and efficiency of aftertreatment device.
(b) The mine operator shall make changes to the diesel equipment inventory as equipment or emission control systems are added, deleted or modified and submit revisions, to the District Manager, within 7 calendar days.
(c) If requested, the mine operator shall provide a copy of the diesel equipment inventory to the representative of the miners within 3 days of the request.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
§ 72.610
Abrasive blasting.
(a)
Surface and underground mines.
When an abrasive blasting operation is performed, all exposed miners shall properly use respirators approved for abrasive blasting by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84, or the operation shall be performed in a totally enclosed device with the miner outside the device.
(b)
Underground areas of underground mines.
Silica sand or other materials containing more than 1 percent free silica shall not be used as an abrasive substance in abrasive blasting.
[59 FR 8327, Feb. 18, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995]
§ 72.620
Drill dust control at surface mines and surface areas of underground mines.
Holes shall be collared and drilled wet, or other effective dust control measures shall be used, when drilling non-water-soluble material. Effective dust control measures shall be used when drilling water-soluble material.
§ 72.630
Drill dust control at underground areas of underground mines.
(a) Dust resulting from drilling in rock shall be controlled by use of permissible dust collectors, or by water, or water with a wetting agent, or by ventilation, or by any other method or device approved by the Secretary that is as effective in controlling the dust.
(b)
Dust collectors.
Dust collectors shall be maintained in permissible and operating condition. Dust collectors approved under Part 33—Dust Collectors for Use in Connection with Rock Drilling in Coal Mines of this title or under Bureau of Mines Schedule 25B are permissible dust collectors for the purpose of this section.
(c)
Water control.
Water used to control dust from drilling rock shall be applied through a hollow drill steel or stem or by the flooding of vertical drill holes in the floor.
(d)
Ventilation control.
To adequately control dust from drilling rock, the air current shall be so directed that the dust is readily dispersed and carried away from the drill operator or any other miners in the area.
§ 72.700
Respiratory equipment; respirable dust.
(a) Respiratory equipment approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 shall be
made available to all persons as required under parts 70, 71, and 90 of this chapter. Use of respirators shall not be substituted for environmental control measures in the active workings. Each operator shall maintain an adequate supply of respiratory equipment.
(b) When required to make respirators available, the operator shall provide training prior to the miner's next scheduled work shift, unless the miner received training within the previous 12 months on the types of respirators made available. The training shall include: The care, fit, use, and limitations of each type of respirator.
(c) An operator shall keep a record of the training at the mine site for 24 months after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission. Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary, Secretary of HHS, or representative of miners, the operator shall promptly provide access to any such training records. The record shall include:
(1) The date of training;
(2) The names of miners trained; and
(3) The subjects included in the training.
[79 FR 24986, May 1, 2014]
§ 72.701
Respiratory equipment; gas, dusts, fumes, or mists.
Respiratory equipment approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 shall be provided to persons exposed for short periods to inhalation hazards from gas, dusts, fumes, or mists. When the exposure is for prolonged periods, other measures to protect such persons or to reduce the hazard shall be taken.
[79 FR 24986, May 1, 2014]
§ 72.710
Selection, fit, use, and maintenance of approved respirators.
As of April 14, 2025: Approved respirators shall be selected, fitted, used, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of a written respiratory protection program consistent with the requirements of ASTM F3387-19. ASTM F3387-19,
Standard Practice for Respiratory Protection,
approved August 1, 2019, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact MSHA at: MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5450; (202) 693-9440; or any Mine Safety and Health Enforcement District Office. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959;
www.astm.org.
[89 FR 28479, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 72.800
Single, full-shift measurement of respirable coal mine dust.
The Secretary will use a single, full-shift measurement of respirable coal mine dust to determine the average concentration on a shift since that measurement accurately represents atmospheric conditions to which a miner is exposed during such shift. As of April 14, 2025, noncompliance with the respirable dust standard, in accordance with this subchapter, is demonstrated when a single, full-shift measurement taken by MSHA meets or exceeds the applicable ECV in table 1 to § 70.208, table 1 to § 70.209, table 1 to § 71.206, or table 1 to § 90.207 of this chapter that corresponds to the particular sampling device used. Upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, and for MSHA to terminate the citation, the mine operator shall take the specified actions in this subchapter.
[89 FR 28479, Apr. 18, 2024]
Pt. 74

# PART 74—COAL MINE DUST SAMPLING DEVICES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
74.1
Purpose.
74.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Approval Requirements for Coal Mine Dust Personal Sampler Unit
74.3
Sampler unit.
74.4
Specifications of sampler unit.
74.5
Tests of coal mine dust personal sampler units.
74.6
Quality control.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Continuous Personal Dust Monitors (CPDMs)
74.7
Design and construction requirements.
74.8
Measurement, accuracy, and reliability requirements.
74.9
Quality assurance.
74.10
Operating and maintenance instructions.
74.11
Tests of the continuous personal dust monitor.

# Subpart D—General Requirements for All Devices
74.12
Conduct of tests; demonstrations.
74.13
Applications.
74.14
Certificate of approval.
74.15
Approval labels.
74.16
Material required for record.
74.17
Changes after certification.
74.18
Withdrawal of certification.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 957.

# Source:
75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 74.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part set forth the requirements for approval of coal mine dust sampling devices for determining the concentrations of respirable dust in coal mine atmospheres; procedures for applying for such approval; test procedures; and labeling.
§ 74.2
Definitions.
(a)
Accuracy:
the ability of a continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM) to determine the “true” concentration of the environment sampled. Accuracy describes the closeness of a typical measurement to the quantity measured, although it is defined and expressed in terms of the relative discrepancy of a typical measurement from the quantity measured. The accuracy of a CPDM is the theoretical maximum error of measurement, expressed as the proportion or percentage of the amount being measured, without regard for the direction of the error, which is achieved with a 0.95 probability by the method.
(b)
Bias:
the uncorrectable relative discrepancy between the mean of the distribution of measurements from a CPDM and the true concentration being measured.
(c)
Coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU):
a personal device for measuring concentrations of respirable dust in coal mine atmospheres that meets the requirements specified under Subpart B of this part.
(d)
Continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM):
a sampling device for continuously measuring concentrations of respirable dust in coal mine atmospheres that reports within-shift and end-of shift measurements of dust concentrations immediately upon the completion of the period of exposure that was monitored and that meets the requirements specified under Subpart C of this part.
(e)
ISO:
the International Organization for Standardization, an international standard-setting organization composed of representatives from various national standards-setting organizations. ISO produces industrial and commercial voluntary consensus standards used worldwide.
(f)
Precision:
the relative variability of measurements from a homogeneous atmosphere about the mean of the population of measurements, divided by the mean at a given concentration. It reflects the ability of a CPDM to replicate measurement results.

# Subpart B—Approval Requirements for Coal Mine Dust Personal Sampler Unit
§ 74.3
Sampler unit.
A CMDPSU shall consist of:
(a) A pump unit,
(b) A sampling head assembly, and
(c) If rechargeable batteries are used in the pump unit, a battery charger.
§ 74.4
Specifications of sampler unit.
(a)
Pump unit:
(1)
Dimensions.
The overall dimensions of the pump unit, hose connections, and valve or switch covers shall not exceed 4 inches (10 centimeters) in height, 4 inches (10 centimeters) in width, and 2 inches (5 centimeters) in thickness.
(2)
Weight.
The pump unit shall not weigh more than 20 ounces (567 grams).
(3)
Construction.
The case and all components of the pump unit shall be of sufficiently durable construction to endure the wear of use in a coal mine, shall be tight fitting to minimize the amount of dust entering the pump case, and shall be designed to protect against radio frequency interference and electromagnetic interference.
(4)
Exhaust.
The pump shall exhaust into the pump case, maintaining a slight positive pressure which will reduce the entry of dust into the pump case.
(5)
Switch.
The pump unit shall be equipped with an ON/OFF switch or equivalent device on the outside of the pump case. This switch shall be protected against accidental operation during use and protected to keep dust from entering the mechanisms.
(6)
Flow rate adjustment.
Except as provided in the last sentence of this paragraph, the pump unit shall be equipped with a suitable means of flow rate adjustment accessible from outside the case. The flow rate adjuster shall be recessed in the pump case and protected against accidental adjustment. If the pump is capable of maintaining the flow rate consistency required in this part without adjustment, an external flow rate adjuster is not required.
(7)
Battery.
The power supply for the pump shall be a suitable battery located in the pump case or in a separate case which attaches to the pump case by a permissible electrical connection.
(8)
Pulsation.
(i) The irregularity in flow rate due to pulsation shall have a fundamental frequency of not less than 20 Hz.
(ii) The quantity of respirable dust collected with a sampler unit shall be within ±5 percent of that collected with a sampling head assembly operated with nonpulsating flow.
(9)
Belt clips.
The pump unit shall be provided with a belt clip which will hold the pump securely on a coal miner's belt.
(10)
Recharging connection.
A suitable connection shall be provided so that the battery may be recharged without removing the battery from the pump case or from the battery case if a separate battery case is used.
(11)
Flow rate indicator.
A visual indicator of flow rate shall be provided either as an integral part of the pump unit or of the sampling head assembly. The flow rate indicator shall be calibrated within ±5 percent at 2.2, 2.0, and 1.7 liters per minute to indicate the rate of air passing through the accompanying sampling head assembly.
(12)
Flow rate range.
The pump shall be capable of operating within a range of from 1.5 to 2.5 liters per minute and shall be adjustable over this range.
(13)
Flow rate consistency.
The flow shall remain within ±0.1 liters per minute over at least a 10-hour period when the pump is operated at 2 liters per minute with a standard sampling head assembly.
(14)
Flow restriction indicator.
The pump shall be capable of detecting restricted flow and providing a visual indication if it occurs. The flow restriction indicator shall remain activated until the cause is corrected. The pump shall shut down automatically if flow is restricted for one minute.
(15)
Duration of operation.
The pump with a fully charged battery pack shall be capable of operating for (i) not less than 8 hours at a flow rate of 2 liters per minute against a resistance of 25 inches (64 centimeters) of water measured at the inlet of the pump; and (ii) for not less than 10 hours at a flow rate of 2 liters per minute against a resistance of 15 inches (38 centimeters) of water measured at the inlet of the pump.
(16)
Low battery indicator.
The pump unit shall be equipped with a visual indicator of low battery power.
(17)
Elapsed time indicator.
The pump unit shall be capable of displaying the actual pump run time in minutes (up to 999 minutes) and retaining the last reading after the pump is shut down due to either a flow restriction described in paragraph (a)(14) of this section or low battery power described in paragraph (a)(16) of this section or at the end of the sampling shift.
(b)
Sampling head assembly.
The sampling head assembly shall consist of a cyclone and a filter assembly as follows:
(1)
Cyclone.
The cyclone shall consist of a cyclone body with removable grit cap and a vortex finder and shall be constructed of nylon or a material equivalent in performance. The dimensions of the components, with the exception of the grit cap, shall be identical to those of a Dorr-Oliver 10 millimeter cyclone body, part No. 28541/4A or 01B11476-01 and vortex finder, part No. 28541/4B.
(2)
Filter assembly.
The filter assembly shall meet the following requirements:
(i)
Filter.
The filter shall be a membrane filter type with a nominal pore size not over 5 micrometers. It shall be nonhydroscopic and shall not dissolve or decompose when immersed in ethyl or isopropyl alcohol. The strength and surface characteristics of the filter shall be such that dust deposited on its surface may be removed by ultrasonic methods without tearing the filter. The filter resistance shall not exceed 2 inches (0.5 centimeters) of water at an airflow rate of 2 liters per minute.
(ii)
Capsule.
The capsule enclosing the filter shall not permit sample air to leak around the filter and shall prevent visual inspection of the filter surface or filter loading. The capsule shall be made of nonhydroscopic material. Its weight, including the enclosed filter, shall not exceed 5 grams and it shall be pre-weighed by the manufacturer with a precision of ±0.001 milligrams. Impact to the capsule shall not dislodge any dust from the capsule, which might then be lost to the weight measurement.
(iii)
Cassette.
The cassette shall enclose the capsule so as to prevent contamination and intentional or inadvertent alteration of dust deposited on the filter. The cassette must be easily removable without causing a loss or gain of capsule weight. The cassette shall be designed to prevent contaminants from entering or dust from leaving the capsule when it is not in use, and to prevent the reversal of airflow through the capsule or other means of removing dust collected on the filter.
(3)
Arrangement of components.
The connections between the cyclone vortex finder and the capsule and between the capsule and the
1/4
-inch (0.64 centimeters) (inside diameter) hose mentioned in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be mechanically firm and shall not leak at a rate of more than 0.1 liters per hour under a vacuum of 4 inches (10 centimeters) of water.
(4)
Clamping of components.
The clamping and positioning of the cyclone body, vortex finder, and cassette shall be rigid, remain in alignment, be firmly in contact and airtight. The cyclone-cassette assembly shall be attached firmly to a backing plate or other means of holding the sampling head in position. The cyclone shall be held in position so that the inlet opening of the cyclone is pointing perpendicular to, and away from, the backing plate.
(5)
Hose.
A 3-foot (91 centimeter) long,
1/4
-inch (0.64 centimeters) (inside diameter) clear plastic hose shall be provided to form an airtight connection between the inlet of the sampler pump and the outlet of the filter assembly. A device, capable of sliding along the hose and attaching to the miner's outer garment, shall be provided.
(c)
Battery charger.
(1)
Power supply.
The battery charger shall be operated from a 110 (VAC) (nominal), 60 Hz power line.
(2)
Connection.
The battery charger shall be provided with a cord and polarized connector so that it may be connected to the charge socket on the pump or battery case.
(3)
Protection.
The battery charger shall be fused, shall have a grounded power plug, and shall not be susceptible to damage by being operated without a battery on charge.
(4)
Charge rates.
The battery charger shall be capable of fully recharging the battery in the pump unit within 16 hours.
§ 74.5
Tests of coal mine dust personal sampler units.
(a) The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Department of Health and Human Services, shall conduct tests to determine whether a CMDPSU that is submitted for approval under these regulations meets the requirements set forth in § 74.4.
(b) The Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), Department of
Labor, will conduct tests and evaluations to determine whether the pump unit of a CMDPSU that is submitted for approval under these regulations complies with the applicable permissibility provisions of 30 CFR part 18.
[75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 99105, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 74.6
Quality control.
The applicant shall describe the way in which each lot of components will be sampled and tested to maintain its quality prior to assembly of each sampler unit. In order to assure that the quality of the CMDPSU will be maintained in production through adequate quality control procedures, MSHA and NIOSH reserve the right to have their qualified personnel inspect each applicant's control-test equipment procedures and records and to interview the employees who conduct the control tests. Two copies of the results of any tests made by the applicant on the CMDPSU or the pump unit thereof shall accompany an application provided under § 74.13 of this part.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Continuous Personal Dust Monitors
§ 74.7
Design and construction requirements.
(a)
General requirement.
Continuous Personal Dust Monitors (CPDMs) shall be designed and constructed for coal miners to wear and operate without impeding their ability to perform their work safely and effectively, and shall be sufficiently durable to perform reliably in the normal working conditions of coal mines.
(b)
Ergonomic design testing.
Prior to submitting an application under § 74.13, the applicant shall develop a testing protocol and test the CPDM to assure that the device can be worn safely, without discomfort, and without impairing a coal miner in the performance of duties throughout a full work shift. The results of the test shall also demonstrate that the device will operate consistently throughout a full work shift under representative working conditions of underground coal miners, including representative types and durations of physical activity, tasks, and changes in body orientation.
(1) The testing protocol shall specify that the tests be conducted in one or more active mines under routine operating conditions during production shifts.
(2) The applicant shall submit the testing protocol, in writing, to NIOSH for approval prior to conducting such testing.
(3) The applicant shall include the testing protocol and written test results in the application submitted to NIOSH as specified in § 74.13.
(4) NIOSH will advise and assist the applicant, as necessary, to develop a testing protocol and arrange for the conduct of testing specified in this paragraph.
(5) NIOSH may further inspect the device or conduct such tests as it deems necessary to assure the safety, comfort, practicality, and operability of the device when it is worn by coal miners in the performance of their duties.
(6) NIOSH may waive the requirement for the applicant to conduct testing under paragraph (b) of this section if NIOSH determines that such testing is unnecessary to assure the safety, comfort, practicality, and operability of the device when it is worn by coal miners in the performance of their duties.
(c)
Maximum weight.
A CPDM shall not add more than 2 kg to the total weight carried by the miner. CPDMs that are combined with other functions, such as communication or illumination, may exceed 2 kg provided that the total added weight carried by the miner does not exceed 2 kg.
(d)
Dust concentration range.
The CPDM shall measure respirable coal mine dust concentrations accurately, as specified under § 74.8, for an end-of-shift average measurement, for concentrations within a range from 0.2 to 4.0 mg/m
3
for respirable coal mine dust. For end-of-shift average concentrations exceeding 4.0 mg/m
3
, the CPDM shall provide a reliable indication that the concentration exceeded 4.0 mg/m
3
.
(e)
Environmental conditions.
The CPDM shall operate reliably and accurately as specified under § 74.8, under
the following environmental conditions:
(1) At any ambient temperature and varying temperatures from minus 30 to plus 40 degrees centigrade;
(2) At any atmospheric pressure from 700 to 1000 millibars;
(3) At any ambient humidity from 10 to 100 percent relative humidity; and
(4) While exposed to water mists generated for dust suppression and while monitoring atmospheres including such water mists.
(f)
Electromagnetic interference.
The CPDM shall meet the following standards for control of and protection from electromagnetic interference.
(1) For emissions control, operators must follow: IEEE Std C95.1-2005, (IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Electromagnetic Fields, 3 kHz to 300 GHz) and 47 CFR 15.1 through 15.407 (FCC Radio Frequency Devices). Persons must proceed in accordance with IEEE Std C95.1-2005 (IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Electromagnetic Fields, 3 kHz to 300 GHz).
(i) The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Persons may obtain a copy from: American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, New York, NY 10036.
http://www.ansi.org.
(ii) Persons may inspect a copy at MSHA, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452, 202-693-9440, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2) For immunity/susceptibility protection, operators must follow: IEC 61000-4-6, International Standard (Electromagnetic compatibility—Part 4-6: Testing and measurement techniques—Immunity to conducted disturbances, induced by radio-frequency fields), Edition 3.0, 2008-10. Persons must proceed in accordance with IEC 61000-4-6, International Standard (Electromagnetic compatibility—Part 4-6: Testing and measurement techniques—Immunity to conducted disturbances, induced by radio-frequency fields), Edition 3.0, 2008-10. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(i) Persons may obtain a copy from the International Electrotechnical Commission at the address provided below:
International Electrotechnical Commission, IEC Central Office, 3, rue de Varembé, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 GENEVA 20, Switzerland.
http://www.standardsinfo.net.
(ii) Persons may inspect a copy at MSHA, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452, 202-693-9440, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(g)
Durability testing.
The CPDM shall be designed and constructed to remain safe and measure respirable coal mine dust concentrations accurately, as specified under § 74.8 of this section after undergoing the following durability tests, which NIOSH will apply to test devices prior to their use in further testing under § 74.8 of this-subpart:
Vibration
Mil-Std-810F, 514.5
U.S. Highway Vibration, Restrained Figure 514.5C-1
1 Hours/Axis, 3 Axis; Total Duration = 3 Hrs, equivalent to 1,000 miles.
Drop
3-foot drop onto bare concrete surface
In standard in-use configuration
1 drop per axis (3 total).
(1) Persons must proceed in accordance with Mil-Std-810F, 514.5, Department of Defense Test Method for Environmental Engineering Considerations and Laboratory Tests, 1 January 2000. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Persons may obtain a copy from the U.S. Department of Defense at the address provided below.
ASC/ENOI, Bldg. 560, 2530 Loop Road West, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7101.
http://www.dtc.army.mil/navigator/.
(2) Persons may inspect a copy at MSHA, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(h)
Reporting of monitoring results.
(1) The CPDM shall report continuous monitoring results legibly or audibly during use. A digital display, if used, shall be illuminated and shall provide a minimum character height of 6 millimeters. Other forms of display (
e.g.,
analogue) must provide comparable visibility. Auditory reporting, if used, shall be clear, have adjustable volume, and provide means for the user to obtain data reports repetitively. The CPDM shall also report end-of-shift results using computer software compatible with current, commonly used personal computer technology.
(2) The CPDM shall report results as cumulative mass concentration in units of mass per volume of air (mg/m
3
) with two significant figures of accuracy rounded as customary.
(i)
Power requirements.
The power source of the CPDM shall have sufficient capacity to enable continuous sampling for 12 hours in a coal mine dust atmosphere of up to 4.0 mg/m
3
. If the CPDM uses a rechargeable battery, the battery charger shall be operated from a 110 (VAC) (nominal), 60 Hz power line.
(j)
Flow stability and calibration of pump.
If a pump is used, the flow shall not vary more than ±5 percent of the calibrated flow for 95 percent of samples taken for any continuous duration for up to 12 hours. The flow calibration maintenance interval to assure such performance shall be specified in the calibration instructions for the device.
(k)
Battery check.
If the CPDM uses a rechargeable battery, the CPDM shall have a feature to indicate to the user that the device is sufficiently charged to operate and provide accurate measurements for an entire shift of 12 hours under normal conditions of use.
(l)
Integration with other personal mining equipment.
(1) If the CPDM is integrated or shares functions with any other devices used in mines, such as cap lights or power sources, then the applicant shall obtain approvals for such other devices, prior to receiving final certification of the CPDM under this section.
(2) A CPDM that is integrated with another device shall be tested, according to all the requirements under this part, with the other device coupled to the CPDM and operating.
(m)
Tampering safeguards or indicators.
The CPDM shall include a safeguard or indicator which either prevents intentional or inadvertent altering of the measuring or reporting functions or indicates that the measuring or reporting functions have been altered.
(n)
Maintenance features.
The CPDM shall be designed to assure that the device can be cleaned and maintained to perform accurately and reliably for the duration of its service life.
[75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 52990, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 74.8
Measurement, accuracy, and reliability requirements.
(a)
Breathing zone measurement requirement.
The CPDM shall be capable of measuring respirable dust within the personal breathing zone of the miner whose exposure is being monitored.
(b)
Accuracy.
The ability of a CPDM to determine the true concentration of respirable coal mine dust at the end of a shift shall be established through testing that demonstrates the following:
(1) For full-shift measurements of 8 hours or more, a 95 percent confidence that the recorded measurements are
within ±25 percent of the true respirable dust concentration, as determined by CMDPSU reference measurements, over a concentration range from 0.2 to 4.0 mg/m
3
; and
(2) For intra-shift measurements of less than 8 hours, a 95 percent confidence that the recorded measurements are within ±25 percent of the true respirable dust concentration, as determined by CMDPSU reference measurements, over the concentration range equivalent to 0.2 to 4.0 mg/m
3
for an 8-hour period.
1
1
The equivalent dust concentration range to the 8-hour range of 0.2 − 4 mg/m
3
is calculated by multiplying this 8-hour range by the dividend of eight hours divided by the duration of the intrashift measurement specified in units of hours. For example, for a measurement taken at exactly one hour into the shift, the 8-hour equivalent dust concentration range would be a one-hour average concentration range of: 8 hours/1 hour × (0.2 − 4 mg/m
3
) = 1.6 − 32 mg/m
3
; for a two-hour measurement, the applicable concentration range would be calculated as: 8 hours/2 hours × (0.2 − 4 mg/m
3
) = 0.8 − 16 mg/m
3
; for a 4-hours measurement, the equivalent range would be: 0.4 − 8 mg/m
3
; * * *
etc.
A CPDM must perform accurately, as specified, for intrashift measurements within such equivalent concentration ranges.
(c)
Reliability of measurements.
The CPDM shall meet the accuracy requirements under paragraph (b) of this section, regardless of the variation in density, composition, size distribution of respirable coal mine dust particles, and the presence of water spray mist in coal mines.
(d)
Precision.
The precision of the CPDM shall be established through testing to determine the variability of multiple measurements of the same dust concentration, as defined by the relative standard deviation of the distribution of measurements. The relative standard deviation shall be less than 0.1275 without bias for both full-shift measurements of 8 hours or more, and for intra-shift measurements of less than 8 hours within the dust concentration range equivalent to 0.2 to 4.0 mg/m
3
for an 8-hour period, as specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(e)
Bias.
The bias of the CPDM measurements shall be limited such that the uncorrectable discrepancy between the mean of the distribution of measurements and the true dust concentration being measured during testing shall be no greater than 10 percent. Bias must be constant over the range of dust concentration levels tested, 0.2 to 4.0 mg/m
3
for an 8-hour sampling period.
(f)
Testing conditions.
Laboratory and mine testing of the CPDM for accuracy, precision, bias, and reliability under diverse environmental conditions (as defined under § 74.7(e) and (g)) shall be determined using the NIOSH testing procedure, “Continuous Personal Dust Monitor Accuracy Testing,” June 23, 2008, available at:
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/mining/pubs/pubreference/outputid3076.htm.
All testing results shall be submitted to NIOSH in writing on the application filed under § 74.11.
(1) Persons must proceed in accordance with NIOSH testing procedure “Continuous Personal Dust Monitor Accuracy Testing,” June 23, 2008. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Persons may obtain a copy at the address below: NIOSH-Publications Dissemination, 4676 Columbia Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45226.
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/mining.
(2) Persons may inspect a copy at MSHA, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 52990, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 74.9
Quality assurance.
(a)
General requirements.
The applicant shall establish and maintain a quality control system that assures that CPDM devices produced under the applicant's certificate of approval meet the required specifications and are reliable, safe, effective, and otherwise suitable for their intended use. To establish and to maintain an approval under this part, the applicant shall:
(1) Submit a copy of the most recent registration under ISO Q9001-2000, American National Standard, Quality Management Systems-Requirements, published by ISO:
(i) With the application for approval under § 74.13 of this part; and
(ii) Upon request by NIOSH, subsequent to the approval of a CPDM under this part.
(2) Persons must proceed in accordance with ISO Q9001-2000, American National Standard, Quality Management Systems-Requirements. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Persons may obtain a copy from the International Organization for Standardization at the address provided below.
International Organization for Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case Postale 56, CH-1211 GENEVA 20, Switzerland.
http://www.standardsinfo.net.
(3) Persons may inspect a copy at MSHA, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b)
Quality management audits.
Upon request, applicants or approval holders must allow NIOSH to inspect the quality management procedures and records, and to interview any employees who may be knowledgeable of quality management processes associated with the production of the CPDM. Audits may be conducted either on an occasional or periodic basis or in response to quality-related complaints or concerns.
(c)
Applicant remediation of quality management deficiencies.
An applicant or approval holder must correct any quality management deficiency identified by an audit within a reasonable time as determined by NIOSH. Failure to correct a deficiency may result in NIOSH disapproval of a pending application or, in the case of an approved device, revocation of approval until NIOSH determines that the deficiency is corrected.
[75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 52990, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 74.10
Operating and maintenance instructions.
(a)
Contents.
The manufacturer must include operating and storage instructions and a maintenance and service life plan with each new CPDM device sold. These documents must be clearly written.
(1) Operating and storage instructions must include:
(i) An explanation of how the CPDM works;
(ii) A schematic diagram of the CPDM;
(iii) Procedures for wearing and use of the CPDM;
(iv) A one page “quick start guide” that will enable a novice to start and operate the CPDM.
(v) Procedures for calibration of the CPDM;
(vi) Procedures for inspecting the operating condition of the CPDM;
(vii) Procedures and conditions for storage, including the identification of any storage conditions that would likely impair the effective functioning of the CPDM; and
(viii) Procedures and conditions of use, including identification of any conditions of use that would likely impair the effective functioning of the CPDM.
(2) The maintenance and service life plan must address:
(i) Conditions that should govern the removal from service of the CPDM; and
(ii) Procedures that a user or others should follow when inspecting, performing maintenance and calibration, and determining when the CPDM should be removed from service.
(b)
Submission to NIOSH for approval.
A copy of the instructions and plan under paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted to NIOSH with the application for approval of the CPDM and if substantive changes are made to the approved device or approved instructions.
§ 74.11
Tests of the continuous personal dust monitor.
(a)
Applicant testing.
The applicant shall conduct tests to determine whether a CPDM that is submitted for approval under these regulations meets the requirements specified in §§ 74.7-74.8 of this part, with the exception of durability testing, which shall be conducted by NIOSH as specified in § 74.7(g) of this part. Applicant testing shall be performed by an independent testing entity approved by NIOSH.
(b)
NIOSH testing assistance.
NIOSH will provide consultation to the applicant to identify and secure necessary testing services for meeting the requirements specified in §§ 74.7-74.8 of this part. Applicants must submit testing protocols to NIOSH prior to testing to verify that the testing protocols adequately address the requirements.
(c)
Reporting of applicant testing results.
The applicant shall include the results from testing specified under paragraph (a) of this section when submitting the application under § 74.13 of this part to NIOSH.
(d)
Intrinsic safety testing.
The applicant shall submit the CPDM to MSHA for testing and evaluation, pursuant to 30 CFR part 18, to determine whether the electronic components of the CPDM submitted for approval meet the applicable permissibility provisions.
[75 FR 17523, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 99105, Dec. 10, 2024]

# Subpart D—General Requirements for All Devices
§ 74.12
Conduct of tests; demonstrations.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a certificate of approval, only personnel of MSHA and NIOSH, representatives of the applicant, and such other persons as may be mutually agreed upon may observe the tests conducted. MSHA and NIOSH shall hold as confidential, and shall not disclose, principles of patentable features, nor shall MSHA or NIOSH disclose any details of the applicant's drawings or specifications or other related material.
(b) After the issuance of a certificate of approval, MSHA or NIOSH will conduct such public demonstrations and tests of the approved device as MSHA or NIOSH deem appropriate, and may reveal the protocols and results of testing considered for the approval of the device. The conduct of any additional investigations, tests, and demonstrations shall be under the sole direction of MSHA and NIOSH and any other persons shall be present only as observers.
§ 74.13
Applications.
(a) Testing of a CMDPSU will be performed by NIOSH, and testing of the pump unit of the CMDPSU will be conducted by MSHA. The applicant must submit a written application in duplicate to both NIOSH and MSHA. Each copy of the application must be accompanied by complete scale drawings, specifications, and a description of materials. Ten complete CMDPSUs must be submitted to NIOSH with the application, and one pump unit must be submitted to MSHA.
(b) Testing of a CPDM will be performed by the applicant as specified under § 74.11. The applicant must submit a written application in duplicate to both NIOSH and MSHA. Each copy of the application must be accompanied by complete scale drawings, specifications, a description of materials, and a copy of the testing protocol and test results which were provided by an independent testing entity, as specified in § 74.11(a). Three complete CPDM units must be sent to NIOSH with the application, and one CPDM device must be sent to MSHA.
(c) Complete drawings and specifications accompanying each copy of the application shall be fully detailed to identify the design of the CMDPSU or pump unit thereof or of the CPDM and to disclose the dimensions and materials of all component parts.
§ 74.14
Certificate of approval.
(a) Upon completion of the testing of a CMDPSU or the pump unit or after review of testing protocols and testing results for the CPDM, NIOSH or MSHA, as appropriate, shall issue to the applicant either a certificate of approval or a written notice of disapproval. NIOSH will not issue a certificate of approval unless MSHA has first issued a certificate of approval for
either the pump unit of a CMDPSU or for the CPDM. If a certificate of approval is issued, no test data or detailed results of tests will accompany such approval. If a notice of disapproval is issued, it will be accompanied by details of the defects, resulting in disapproval, with a view to possible correction.
(b) A certificate of approval will be accompanied by a list of the drawings and specifications covering the details of design and construction of the CMDPSU and the pump unit, or of the CPDM, as appropriate, upon which the certificate of approval is based. The applicant shall keep exact duplicates of the drawings and specifications submitted to NIOSH and to MSHA relating to the CMDPSU, the pump unit thereof, or the CPDM, which has received a certificate of approval. The approved drawings and specifications shall be adhered to exactly in the production of the certified CMDPSU, including the pump unit or of the CPDM, for commercial purposes. In addition, the applicant shall observe such procedures for, and keep such records of, the control of component parts as either MSHA or NIOSH may in writing require as a condition of approval.
§ 74.15
Approval labels.
(a) Certificate of approval will be accompanied by photographs of designs for the approval labels to be affixed to each CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate.
(b) The labels showing approval by NIOSH and by MSHA shall contain such information as MSHA or NIOSH may require and shall be reproduced legibly on the outside of a CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, as directed by NIOSH or MSHA.
(c) The applicant shall submit full-scale designs or reproductions of approval labels and a sketch or description of the position of the labels on each sampling device.
(d) Use of the approval labels obligates the applicant to whom the certificate of approval was issued to maintain the quality of the complete CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, and to guarantee that the complete CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, is manufactured or assembled according to the drawings and specifications upon which the certificate of approval was based. Use of the approval labels is authorized only on CMDPSUs or CPDMs, as appropriate, that conform to the drawings and specifications upon which the certificate of approval we based.
§ 74.16
Material required for record.
(a) As part of the permanent record of the approval application process, NIOSH will retain a complete CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, and MSHA will retain a CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, that has been tested and certified. Material not required for record purposes will be returned to the applicant at the applicant's request and expense upon receipt of written shipping instructions by MSHA or NIOSH.
(b) As soon as a CMDPSU or CPDM, as appropriate, is commercially available, the applicant shall deliver a complete sampling device free of charge to NIOSH at the address specified on the NIOSH Web page:
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/mining.
§ 74.17
Changes after certification.
(a) If the applicant desires to change any feature of a certified CMDPSU or a certified CPDM, the applicant shall first obtain the approval of NIOSH pursuant to the following procedures:
(1) Application shall be made as for an original certificate of approval, requesting that the existing certification be extended to encompass the proposed change. The application shall be accompanied by drawings, specifications, and related material.
(2) The application and accompanying material will be examined by NIOSH to determine whether testing of the modified CMDPSU or CPDM or components will be required. Testing will be necessary if there is a possibility that the modification may adversely affect the performance of the CMDPSU or CPDM. NIOSH will inform the applicant whether such testing is required.
(3) If the proposed modification meets the pertinent requirements of these regulations, a formal extension of certification will be issued, accompanied by a list of new and revised drawings and specifications to be added
to those already on file as the basis for the extension of certification.
(b) If a change is proposed in a pump unit of a certified CMDPSU or in electrical components of a CPDM, the approval of MSHA with respect to intrinsic safety shall be obtained in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 74.11(d).
§ 74.18
Withdrawal of certification.
Any certificate of approval issued under this part may be revoked for cause by NIOSH or MSHA which issued the certificate.
Pt. 75

# PART 75—MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS—UNDERGROUND COAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
75.1
Scope.
75.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Qualified and Certified Persons
75.100
Certified person.
75.150
Tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency; qualified person.
75.151
Tests for methane; qualified person; additional requirement.
75.152
Tests of air flow; qualified person.
75.153
Electrical work; qualified person.
75.154
Repair of energized surface high voltage lines; qualified person.
75.155
Qualified hoisting engineer; qualifications.
75.156
AMS operator, qualifications.
75.159
Records of certified and qualified persons.
75.160
Training programs.
75.161
Plans for training programs.

# Subpart C—Roof Support
75.200
Scope.
75.201
Definitions.
75.202
Protection from falls of roof, face and ribs.
75.203
Mining methods.
75.204
Roof bolting.
75.205
Installation of roof support using mining machines with integral roof bolters.
75.206
Conventional roof support.
75.207
Pillar recovery.
75.208
Warning devices.
75.209
Automated Temporary Roof Support (ATRS) systems.
75.210
Manual installation of temporary support.
75.211
Roof testing and scaling.
75.212
Rehabilitation of areas with unsupported roof.
75.213
Roof support removal.
75.214
Supplemental support materials, equipment and tools.
75.215
Longwall mining systems.
75.220
Roof control plan.
75.221
Roof control plan information.
75.222
Roof control plan—approval criteria.
75.223
Evaluation and revision of roof control plan.

# Subpart D—Ventilation
75.300
Scope.
75.301
Definitions.
75.302
Main mine fans.
75.310
Installation of main mine fans.
75.311
Main mine fan operation.
75.312
Main mine fan examinations and records.
75.313
Main mine fan stoppage with persons underground.
75.320
Air quality detectors and measurement devices.
75.321
Air quality.
75.322
Harmful quantities of noxious gases.
75.323
Actions for excessive methane.
75.324
Intentional changes in the ventilation system.
75.325
Air quantity.
75.326
Mean entry air velocity.
75.327
Air courses and trolley haulage systems.
75.330
Face ventilation control devices.
75.331
Auxiliary fans and tubing.
75.332
Working sections and working places.
75.333
Ventilation controls.
75.334
Worked-out areas and areas where pillars are being recovered.
75.335
Seal strengths, design applications, and installation.
75.336
Sampling and monitoring requirements.
75.337
Construction and repair of seals.
75.338
Training.
75.339
Seals records.
75.340
Underground electrical installations.
75.341
Direct-fired intake air heaters.
75.342
Methane monitors.
75.343
Underground shops.
75.344
Compressors.
75.350
Belt air course ventilation.
75.351
Atmospheric monitoring systems.
75.352
Actions in response to AMS malfunction, alert, or alarm signals.
75.360
Preshift examination at fixed intervals.
75.361
Supplemental examination.
75.362
On-shift examination.
75.363
Hazardous conditions and violations of mandatory health or safety standards; posting, correcting, and recording.
75.364
Weekly examination.
75.370
Mine ventilation plan; submission and approval.
75.371
Mine ventilation plan; contents.
75.372
Mine ventilation map.
75.373
Reopening mines.
75.380
Escapeways; bituminous and lignite mines.
75.381
Escapeways; anthracite mines.
75.382
Mechanical escape facilities.
75.384
Longwall and shortwall travelways.
75.385
Opening new mines.
75.386
Final mining of pillars.
75.388
Boreholes in advance of mining.
75.389
Mining into inaccessible areas.

# Subpart E—Combustible Materials and Rock Dusting
75.400
Accumulation of combustible materials.
75.400-1
Definitions.
75.400-2
Cleanup program.
75.401
Abatement of dust; water or water with a wetting agent.
75.401-1
Excessive amounts of dust.
75.402
Rock dusting.
75.402-1
Definition.
75.402-2
Exceptions.
75.403
Maintenance of incombustible content of rock dust.
75.403-1
Incombustible content.
75.404
Exemption of anthracite mines.

# Subpart F—Electrical Equipment—General
75.500
Permissible electric equipment.
75.500-1
Other low horsepower electric face equipment.
75.501
Permissible electric face equipment; coal seams above water table.
75.501-1
Coal seams above the water table.
75.501-2
Permissible electric face equipment.
75.501-3
New openings; mines above water table and never classed gassy.
75.502
Permits for noncompliance.
75.503
Permissible electric face equipment; maintenance.
75.503-1
Statement listing all electric face equipment.
75.504
Permissibility of new, replacement, used, reconditioned, additional, and rebuilt electric face equipment.
75.505
Mines classed gassy; use and maintenance of permissible electric face equipment.
75.506
Electric face equipment; requirements for permissibility.
75.506-1
Electric face equipment; permissible condition; maintenance requirements.
75.507
Power connection points.
75.507-1
Electric equipment other than power-connection points; outby the last open crosscut; return air; permissibility requirements.
75.508
Map of electrical system.
75.508-1
Mine tracks.
75.508-2
Changes in electric system map; recording.
75.509
Electric power circuit and electric equipment; deenergization.
75.510
Energized trolley wires; repair.
75.510-1
Repair of energized trolley wires; training.
75.511
Low-, medium-, or high-voltage distribution circuits and equipment; repair.
75.511-1
Qualified person.
75.512
Electric equipment; examination, testing and maintenance.
75.512-1
Qualified person.
75.512-2
Frequency of examinations.
75.513
Electric conductor; capacity and insulation.
75.513-1
Electric conductor; size.
75.514
Electrical connections or splices; suitability.
75.515
Cable fittings; suitability.
75.516
Power wires; support.
75.516-1
Installed insulators.
75.516-2
Communication wires and cables; installation; insulation; support.
75.517
Power wires and cables; insulation and protection.
75.517-1
Power wires and cables; insulation and protection.
75.517-2
Plans for insulation of existing bare power wires and cables.
75.518
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection.
75.518-1
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection; minimum requirements.
75.518-2
Incandescent lamps; overload and short circuit protection.
75.519
Main power circuits; disconnecting switches.
75.519-1
Main power circuits; disconnecting switches; locations.
75.520
Electric equipment; switches.
75.521
Lightning arresters; ungrounded and exposed power conductors and telephone wires.
75.522
Lighting devices.
75.522-1
Incandescent and fluorescent lamps.
75.523
Electric face equipment; deenergization.
75.523-1
Deenergization of self-propelled electric face equipment installation requirements.
75.523-2
Deenergization of self-propelled electric face equipment; performance requirements.
75.523-3
Automatic emergency-parking brakes.
75.524
Electric face equipment; electric equipment used in return air outby the last open crosscut; maximum level of alternating or direct electric current between frames of equipment.
Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 75—List of Permissible Electric Fare Equipment Approved by the Bureau of Mines Prior to May 23, 1936

# Subpart G—Trailing Cables
75.600
Trailing cables; flame resistance.
75.600-1
Approved cables; flame resistance.
75.601
Short circuit protection of trailing cables.
75.601-1
Short circuit protection; ratings and settings of circuit breakers.
75.601-2
Short circuit protection; use of fuses; approval by the Secretary.
75.601-3
Short circuit protection; dual element fuses; current ratings; maximum values.
75.602
Trailing cable junctions.
75.603
Temporary splice of trailing cable.
75.604
Permanent splicing of trailing cables.
75.605
Clamping of trailing cables to equipment.
75.606
Protection of trailing cables.
75.607
Breaking trailing cable and power cable connections.

# Subpart H—Grounding
75.700
Grounding metallic sheaths, armors and conduits enclosing power conductors.
75.700-1
Approved methods of grounding.
75.701
Grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of electric equipment.
75.701-1
Approved methods of grounding of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems.
75.701-2
Approved method of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures receiving power from single-phase 110-220-volt circuit.
75.701-3
Approved methods of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from direct current power systems with one polarity grounded.
75.701-4
Grounding wires; capacity of wires.
75.701-5
Use of grounding connectors.
75.702
Protection other than grounding.
75.702-1
Protection other than grounding; approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
75.703
Grounding offtrack direct-current machines and enclosures of related detached components.
75.703-1
Approved method of grounding.
75.703-2
Approved grounding mediums.
75.703-3
Approved methods of grounding offtrack mobile, portable and stationary direct-current machines.
75.703-4
Other methods of protecting offtrack direct-current equipment; approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
75.704
Grounding frames of stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems.
75.704-1
Approved methods of grounding.
75.705
Work on high-voltage lines; deenergizing and grounding.
75.705-1
Work on high-voltage lines.
75.705-2
Repairs to energized surface high-voltage lines.
75.705-3
Work on energized high-voltage surface lines; reporting.
75.705-4
Simultaneous repairs.
75.705-5
Installation of protective equipment.
75.705-6
Protective clothing; use and inspection.
75.705-7
Protective equipment; inspection.
75.705-8
Protective equipment; testing and storage.
75.705-9
Operating disconnecting or cutout switches.
75.705-10
Tying into energized high-voltage surface circuits.
75.705-11
Use of grounded messenger wires; ungrounded systems.
75.706
Deenergized underground power circuits; idle days—idle shifts.

# Subpart I—Underground High-Voltage Distribution
75.800
High-voltage circuits; circuit breakers.
75.800-1
Circuit breakers; location.
75.800-2
Approved circuit schemes.
75.800-3
Testing, examination and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
75.800-4
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
75.801
Grounding resistors.
75.802
Protection of high-voltage circuits extending underground.
75.803
Fail safe ground check circuits on high-voltage resistance grounded systems.
75.803-1
Maximum voltage ground check circuits.
75.803-2
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires; approval by the Secretary.
75.804
Underground high-voltage cables.
75.805
Couplers.
75.806
Connection of single-phase loads.
75.807
Installation of high-voltage transmission cables.
75.808
Disconnecting devices.
75.809
Identification of circuit breakers and disconnecting switches.
75.810
High-voltage trailing cables; splices.
75.811
High-voltage underground equipment; grounding.
75.812
Movement of high-voltage power centers and portable transformers; permit.
75.812-1
Qualified person.
75.812-2
High-voltage power centers and transformers; record of examination.

# High-Voltage Longwalls
75.813
High-voltage longwalls; scope.
75.814
Electrical protection.
75.815
Disconnect devices.
75.816
Guarding of cables.
75.817
Cable handling and support systems.
75.818
Use of insulated cable handling equipment.
75.819
Motor-starter enclosures; barriers and interlocks.
75.820
Electrical work; troubleshooting and testing.
75.821
Testing, examination and maintenance.
75.822
Underground high-voltage longwall cables.
75.823
Scope.
75.824
Electrical protection.
75.825
Power centers.
75.826
High-voltage trailing cables.
75.827
Guarding of trailing cables.
75.828
Trailing cable pulling.
75.829
Tramming continuous mining machines in and out of the mine and from section to section.
75.830
Splicing and repair of trailing cables.
75.831
Electrical work; troubleshooting and testing.
75.832
Frequency of examinations; recordkeeping.
75.833
Handling high-voltage trailing cables.
75.834
Training.
Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 75—Diagrams of Inby and Outby Switching

# Subpart J—Underground Low- and Medium-Voltage Alternating Current Circuits
75.900
Low- and medium-voltage circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment; circuit breakers.
75.900-1
Circuit breakers; location.
75.900-2
Approved circuit schemes.
75.900-3
Testing, examination and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
75.900-4
Testing, examination and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
75.901
Protection of low- and medium-voltage three-phase circuits used underground.
75.902
Low- and medium-voltage ground check monitor circuits.
75.902-1
Maximum voltage ground check circuits.
75.902-2
Approved ground check systems not employing pilot check wires.
75.902-4
Attachment of ground conductors and ground check wires to equipment frames; use of separate connections.
75.903
Disconnecting devices.
75.904
Identification of circuit breakers.
75.905
Connection of single-phase loads.
75.906
Trailing cables for mobile equipment, ground wires and ground check wires.
75.907
Design of trailing cables for medium-voltage circuits.
Appendix A to Subpart J of Part 75

# Subpart K—Trolley Wires and Trolley Feeder Wires
75.1000
Cutout switches.
75.1001
Overcurrent protection.
75.1001-1
Devices for overcurrent protection; testing and calibration requirements; records.
75.1002
Installation of electric equipment and conductors; permissibility.
75.1003
Insulation of trolley wires, trolley feeder wires and bare signal wires; guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.
75.1003-1
Other requirements for guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.
75.1003-2
Requirements for movement of off-track mining equipment in areas of active workings where energized trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are present; pre-movement requirements; certified and qualified persons.

# Subpart L—Fire Protection
75.1100
Requirements.
75.1100-1
Type and quality of firefighting equipment.
75.1100-2
Quantity and location of firefighting equipment.
75.1100-3
Condition and examination of firefighting equipment.
75.1101
Deluge-type water sprays, foam generators; main and secondary belt-conveyor drives.
75.1101-1
Deluge-type water spray systems.
75.1101-2
Installation of deluge-type sprays.
75.1101-3
Water requirements.
75.1101-4
Branch lines.
75.1101-5
Installation of foam generator systems.
75.1101-6
Water sprinkler systems; general.
75.1101-7
Installation of water sprinkler systems; requirements.
75.1101-8
Water sprinkler systems; arrangement of sprinklers.
75.1101-9
Back-up water system.
75.1101-10
Water sprinkler systems; fire warning devices at belt drives.
75.1101-11
Inspection of water sprinkler systems.
75.1101-12
Equivalent dry-pipe system.
75.1101-13
Dry powder chemical systems; general.
75.1101-14
Installation of dry powder chemical systems.
75.1101-15
Construction of dry powder chemical systems.
75.1101-16
Dry powder chemical systems; sensing and fire suppression devices.
75.1101-17
Sealing of dry powder chemical systems.
75.1101-18
Dry powder requirements.
75.1101-19
Nozzles; flow rate and direction.
75.1101-20
Safeguards for dry powder chemical systems.
75.1101-21
Back-up water system.
75.1101-22
Inspection of dry powder chemical systems.
75.1102
Slippage and sequence switches.
75.1103
Automatic fire warning devices.
75.1103-1
Automatic fire sensors.
75.1103-2
Automatic fire sensors; approved components; installation requirements.
75.1103-3
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; minimum requirements; general.
75.1103-4
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; installation; minimum requirements.
75.1103-5
Automatic fire warning devices; actions and response.
75.1103-6
Automatic fire sensors; actuation of fire suppression systems.
75.1103-7
Electrical components; permissibility requirements.
75.1103-8
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; examination and test requirements.
75.1103-9
Minimum requirements; fire suppression materials and location; maintenance of entries and crosscuts; access doors; communications; fire crews: high-expansion foam devices.
75.1103-10
Fire suppression systems; additional requirements.
75.1103-11
Tests of fire hydrants and fire hose; record of tests.
75.1104
Underground storage, lubricating oil and grease.
75.1106
Welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame underground.
75.1106-1
Test for methane.

# Transportation, Handling and Storage of Liquefied and Nonliquefied Compressed Gas Cylinders
75.1106-2
Transportation of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; requirements.
75.1106-3
Storage of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; requirements.
75.1106-4
Use of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; general requirements.
75.1106-5
Maintenance and tests of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; accessories and equipment; requirements.
75.1106-6
Exemption of small low pressure gas cylinders containing nonflammable or nonexplosive gas mixtures.

# Fire Suppression Devices and Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluids on Underground Equipment
75.1107
Fire suppression devices.
75.1107-1
Fire-resistant hydraulic fluids and fire suppression devices on underground equipment.
75.1107-2
Approved fire-resistant hydraulic fluids; minimum requirements.
75.1107-3
Fire suppression devices; approved components; installation requirements.
75.1107-4
Automatic fire sensors and manual actuators; installation; minimum requirements.
75.1107-5
Electrical components of fire suppression devices; permissibility requirements.
75.1107-6
Capacity of fire suppression devices; location and direction of nozzles.
75.1107-7
Water spray devices; capacity; water supply; minimum requirements.
75.1107-8
Fire suppression devices; extinguishant supply systems.
75.1107-9
Dry chemical devices; capacity; minimum requirements.
75.1107-10
High expansion foam devices; minimum capacity.
75.1107-11
Extinguishing agents; requirements on mining equipment employed in low coal.
75.1107-12
Inerting of mine atmosphere prohibited.
75.1107-13
Approval of other fire suppression devices.
75.1107-14
Guards and handrails; requirements where fire suppression devices are employed.
75.1107-15
Fire suppression devices; hazards; training of miners.
75.1107-16
Inspection of fire suppression devices.
75.1107-17
Incorporation by reference; availability of publications.
75.1108
Approved conveyor belts.

# Subpart M—Maps
75.1200
Mine map.
75.1200-1
Additional information on mine map.
75.1200-2
Accuracy and scale of mine maps.
75.1201
Certification.
75.1202
Temporary notations, revisions, and supplements.
75.1202-1
Temporary notations, revisions, and supplements.
75.1203
Availability of mine map.
75.1204
Mine closure; filing of map with Secretary.
75.1204-1
Places to give notice and file maps.

# Subpart N—Explosives and Blasting
75.1300
Definitions.
75.1301
Qualified person.
75.1310
Explosives and blasting equipment.
75.1311
Transporting explosives and detonators.
75.1312
Explosives and detonators in underground magazines.
75.1313
Explosives and detonators outside of magazines.
75.1314
Sheathed explosive units.
75.1315
Boreholes for explosives.
75.1316
Preparation before blasting.
75.1317
Primer cartridges.
75.1318
Loading boreholes.
75.1319
Weight of explosives permitted in boreholes in bituminous and lignite mines.
75.1320
Multiple-shot blasting.
75.1321
Permit for firing more than 20 boreholes and to use nonpermissible blasting units.
75.1322
Stemming boreholes.
75.1323
Blasting circuits.
75.1324
Methane concentration and tests.
75.1325
Firing procedure.
75.1326
Examination after blasting.
75.1327
Misfires.
75.1328
Damaged or deteriorated explosives and detonators.

# Subpart O—Hoisting and Mantrips
75.1400
Hoisting equipment; general.
75.1400-1
Hoists; brakes, capability.
75.1400-2
Hoists; tests of safety catches; records.
75.1400-3
Daily examination of hoisting equipment.
75.1400-4
Certifications and records of daily examinations.
75.1401
Hoists; rated capacities; indicators.
75.1401-1
Hoists; indicators.
75.1402
Communication between shaft stations and hoist room.
75.1402-1
Communication between shaft stations and hoist room.
75.1402-2
Tests of signaling systems.
75.1403
Other safeguards.
75.1403-1
General criteria.
75.1403-2
Criteria—Hoists transporting materials; brakes.
75.1403-3
Criteria—Drum clutch; cage construction.
75.1403-4
Criteria—Automatic elevators.
75.1403-5
Criteria—Belt conveyors.
75.1403-6
Criteria—Self-propelled personnel carriers.
75.1403-7
Criteria—Mantrips.
75.1403-8
Criteria—Track haulage roads.
75.1403-9
Criteria—Shelter holes.
75.1403-10
Criteria—Haulage; general.
75.1403-11
Criteria—Entrances to shafts and slopes.
75.1404
Automatic brakes; speed reduction gear.
75.1404-1
Braking system.
75.1405
Automatic couplers.
75.1405-1
Automatic couplers, haulage equipment.

# Wire Ropes
75.1429
Guide ropes.
75.1430
Wire ropes; scope.
75.1431
Minimum rope strength.
75.1432
Initial measurement.
75.1433
Examinations.
75.1434
Retirement criteria.
75.1435
Load end attachments.
75.1436
Drum end attachment.
75.1437
End attachment retermination.
75.1438
End attachment replacement.

# Subpart P—Mine Emergencies
75.1500
[Reserved]
75.1501
Emergency evacuations.
75.1502
Mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction.
75.1503
Use of fire suppression equipment.
75.1504
Mine emergency evacuation training and drills.
75.1505
Escapeway maps.
75.1506
Refuge alternatives.
75.1507
Emergency Response Plan; refuge alternatives.
75.1508
Training and records for examination, maintenance and repair of refuge alternatives and components.

# Subpart Q—Communications
75.1600
Communications.
75.1600-1
Communication facilities; main portals; installation requirements.
75.1600-2
Communication facilities; working sections; installation and maintenance requirements; audible or visual alarms.
75.1600-3
Communications facilities; refuge alternatives.

# Subpart R—Miscellaneous
75.1700
Oil and gas wells.
75.1702
Smoking; prohibition.
75.1702-1
Smoking programs.
75.1703
Portable electric lamps.
75.1703-1
Permissible lamps.
75.1707-1
New working section.
75.1708
Surface structures, fireproofing.
75.1708-1
Surface structures; fireproof construction.
75.1709
Accumulations of methane and coal dust on surface coal-handling facilities.
75.1710
Canopies or cabs; diesel-powered and electric face equipment.
75.1710-1
Canopies or cabs; self-propelled diesel-powered and electric face equipment; installation requirements.
75.1711
Sealing of mines.
75.1711-1
Sealing of shaft openings.
75.1711-2
Sealing of slope or drift openings.
75.1711-3
Openings of active mines.
75.1712
Bath houses and toilet facilities.
75.1712-1
Availability of surface bathing facilities; change rooms; and sanitary facilities.
75.1712-2
Location of surface facilities.
75.1712-3
Minimum requirements of surface bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities.
75.1712-4
Waiver of surface facilities requirements.
75.1712-5
Application for waiver of surface facilities.
75.1712-6
Underground sanitary facilities; installation and maintenance.
75.1712-7
Underground sanitary facilities; waiver of requirements.
75.1712-8
Application for waiver of location requirements for underground sanitary facilities.
75.1712-9
Issuance of waivers.
75.1712-10
Underground sanitary facilities; maintenance.
75.1713
Emergency medical assistance; first-aid.
75.1713-1
Arrangements for emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons; agreements; reporting requirements; posting requirements.
75.1713-2
Emergency communications; requirements.
75.1713-3
First-Aid training; supervisory employees.
75.1713-4
First-aid training program; availability of instruction to all miners.
75.1713-5
First-aid training program; retraining of supervisory employees; availability to all miners.
75.1713-6
First-aid training program; minimum requirements.
75.1713-7
First-aid equipment; location; minimum requirements.
75.1714
Availability of approved self-rescue devices; instruction in use and location.
75.1714-1
Approved self-rescue devices.
75.1714-2
Self-rescue devices; use and location requirements.
75.1714-3
Self-rescue devices; inspection, testing, maintenance, repair, and record-keeping.
75.1714-4
Additional self-contained self-rescuers (SCSRs).
75.1714-5
Map locations of self-contained self-rescuers (SCSR).
75.1714-6
Emergency tethers.
75.1714-7
Multi-gas detectors.
75.1714-8
Reporting SCSR inventory and malfunctions; retention of SCSRs.
75.1715
Identification check system.
75.1716
Operations under water.
75.1716-1
Operations under water; notification by operator.
75.1716-2
Permit required.
75.1716-3
Applications for permits.
75.1716-4
Issuance of permits.
75.1717
Exemptions.
75.1718
Drinking water.
75.1718-1
Drinking water; quality.
75.1719
Illumination; purpose and scope of §§ 75.1719 through 75.1719-4; time for compliance.
75.1719-1
Illumination in working places.
75.1719-2
Lighting fixtures; requirements.
75.1719-3
Methods of measurement; light measuring instruments.
75.1719-4
Mining machines, cap lamps; requirements.
75.1720
Protective clothing; requirements.
75.1720-1
Distinctively colored hard hats, or hard caps; identification for newly employed, inexperienced miners.
75.1721
Opening of new underground coal mines, or reopening and reactivating of abandoned or deactivated coal mines; notification by the operator; requirements.
75.1722
Mechanical equipment guards.
75.1723
Stationary grinding machines; protective devices.
75.1724
Hand-held power tools; safety devices.
75.1725
Machinery and equipment; operation and maintenance.
75.1726
Performing work from a raised position; safeguards.
75.1727
Drive belts.
75.1728
Power-driven pulleys.
75.1729
Welding operations.
75.1730
Compressed air; general; compressed air systems.
75.1731
Maintenance of belt conveyors and belt conveyor entries.
75.1732
Proximity detection systems.
Subpart S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Diesel-Powered Equipment
75.1900
Definitions.
75.1901
Diesel fuel requirements.
75.1902
Underground diesel fuel storage—general requirements.
75.1903
Underground diesel fuel storage facilities and areas; construction and safety precautions.
75.1904
Underground diesel fuel tanks and safety cans.
75.1905
Dispensing of diesel fuel.
75.1905-1
Diesel fuel piping systems.
75.1906
Transport of diesel fuel.
75.1907
Diesel-powered equipment intended for use in underground coal mines.
75.1908
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; categories.
75.1909
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; design and performance requirements.
75.1910
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; electrical system design and performance requirements.
75.1911
Fire suppression systems for diesel-powered equipment and diesel fuel transportation units.
75.1912
Fire suppression systems for permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities.
75.1913
Starting aids.
75.1914
Maintenance of diesel-powered equipment.
75.1915
Training and qualification of persons working on diesel-powered equipment.
75.1916
Operation of diesel-powered equipment.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h), 957.

# Source:
35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
The provisions of this part marked [Statutory Provision] appear in Title III of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969.

# Subpart A—General
§ 75.1
Scope.
This part 75 sets forth safety standards compliance with which is mandatory in each underground coal mine subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. Some standards also are applicable to surface operations. Regulations and criteria supplementary to these standards also are set forth in this part.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 12319, Mar. 24, 1978]
§ 75.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part.
Act.
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.
Active workings.
Any place in a coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel.
Adequate interrupting capacity.
The ability of an electrical protective device, based upon its required and intended application, to safely interrupt values of current in excess of its trip setting or melting point.
Anthracite.
Coals with a volatile ratio equal to 0.12 or less. The volatile ratio is the volatile matter content divided by the volatile matter plus the fixed carbon.
Approval documentation.
Formal papers issued by the Mine Safety and Health Administration which describe and illustrate the complete assembly of electrical machinery or accessories which have met the applicable requirements of 30 CFR part 18.
Certified or registered.
As applied to any person, a person certified or registered by the State in which the coal mine is located to perform duties prescribed by this part 75, except that in a State where no program of certification or registration is provided or where the program does not meet at least minimum Federal standards established by the Secretary, such certification or registration shall be by the Secretary.
Circuit-interrupting device.
A device designed to open and close a circuit by nonautomatic means and to open the circuit automatically at a predetermined overcurrent value without damage to the device when operated within its rating.
Coal mine.
Includes areas of adjoining mines connected underground.
Filter Self-Rescuer (FSR).
A type of gas mask approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 for escape only from underground mines and which provides at least 1 hour of protection against carbon monoxide.
Ground fault or grounded phase.
An unintentional connection between an electric circuit and the grounding system.
Low voltage.
Up to and including 660 volts, medium voltage means voltages from 661 to 1,000 volts; and high voltage means more than 1,000 volts.
Motor-starter enclosure.
An enclosure containing motor starting circuits and equipment.
Nominal voltage.
The phase-to-phase or line-to-line root-mean-square value assigned to a circuit or system for designation of its voltage class, such as 480 or 4,160 volts. Actual voltage at which the circuit or system operates may vary from the nominal voltage within a range that permits satisfactory operation of equipment.
Permissible.
(1) As applied to electric face equipment, all electrically operated equipment taken into or used inby the last open crosscut of an entry or a room of any coal mine the electrical parts of which, including, but not limited to, associated electrical equipment, components, and accessories, are designed, constructed, and installed, in accordance with the specifications of the Secretary, to assure that such equipment will not cause a mine explosion or mine fire, and the other features of which are designed and constructed, in accordance with the specifications of the Secretary, to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, other accidents in the use of such equipment. The regulations of the Secretary or the Director of the Bureau of Mines in effect on March 30, 1970, relating to the requirements for investigation, testing, approval, certification, and acceptance of such equipment as permissible shall continue in effect until modified or superseded by the Secretary, except that the Secretary shall provide procedures, including, where feasible, testing, approval, certification, and acceptance in
the field by an authorized representative of the Secretary, to facilitate compliance by an operator with the requirements of § 75.500 within the periods prescribed in § 75.500.
(2) As applied to equipment other than permissible electric face equipment: (i) Equipment used in the operation of a coal mine to which an approval plate, label, or other device is attached as authorized by the Secretary and which meets specifications which are prescribed by the Secretary for the construction and maintenance of such equipment and are designed to assure that such equipment will not cause a mine explosion or a mine fire. (ii) The manner of use of equipment means the manner of use prescribed by the Secretary.
Qualified person.
As the context requires:
(1) An individual deemed qualified by the Secretary and designated by the operator to make tests and examinations required by this part 75; and
(2) An individual deemed, in accordance with minimum requirements to be established by the Secretary, qualified by training, education, and experience, to perform electrical work, to maintain electrical equipment, and to conduct examinations and tests of all electrical equipment.
Respirable dust.
Dust collected with a sampling device approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with part 74—Coal Mine Dust Personal Sampler Units of this title. Sampling device approvals issued by the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare are continued in effect.
Rock dust.
Pulverized limestone, dolomite, gypsum, anhydrite, shale, adobe, or other inert material, preferably light colored, 100 percent of which will pass through a sieve having 20 meshes per linear inch and 70 percent or more of which will pass through a sieve having 200 meshes per linear inch; the particles of which when wetted and dried will not cohere to form a cake which will not be dispersed into separate particles by a light blast of air; and which does not contain more than 5 percent combustible matter or more than a total of 4 percent free and combined silica (SiO
2
), or, where the Secretary finds that such silica concentrations are not available, which does not contain more than 5 percent of free and combined silica.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's delegate.
Self-Contained Self-Rescuer (SCSR).
A type of closed-circuit, self-contained breathing apparatus approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 for escape only from underground mines.
Short circuit.
An abnormal connection of relatively low impedance, whether made accidentally or intentionally, between two points of different potential.
Working face.
Any place in a coal mine in which work of extracting coal from its natural deposit in the earth is performed during the mining cycle.
Working place.
The area of a coal mine inby the last open crosscut.
Working section.
All areas of the coal mine from the loading point of the section to and including the working faces.
[57 FR 20913, May 15, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995; 67 FR 11001, Mar. 11, 2002]

# Subpart B—Qualified and Certified Persons
§ 75.100
Certified person.
(a) The provisions of Subpart D—Ventilation of this part 75 require that certain examinations and tests be made by a certified person. A certified person within the meaning of those provisions is a person who has been certified as a mine foreman (mine manager), an assistant mine foreman (section foreman), or a preshift examiner (mine examiner). A person who has been so certified is also a qualified person within the meaning of those provisions of subpart D of this part which require that certain tests be made by a qualified person and within the meaning of § 75.1106.
(b) A person who is certified as a mine foreman, an assistant mine foreman, or a preshift examiner by the State in which the coal mine is located is, to the extent of the State's certification, a certified person within the meaning of the provisions of subpart D
of this part and § 75.1106 referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) The Secretary may certify persons in the categories of mine foreman, assistant mine foreman, and preshift examiner whenever the State in which persons are presently employed in these categories does not provide for such certification. A person's initial certification by MSHA is valid for as long as the person continues to satisfy the requirements necessary to obtain the certification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor. The mine operator or independent contractor shall make an application which satisfactorily shows that each such person has had at least 2 years underground experience in a coal mine, and has held the position of mine foreman, assistant mine foreman, or preshift examiner for a period of 6 months immediately preceding the filing of the application, and is qualified to test for methane and for oxygen deficiency. Applications for Secretarial certification should be submitted in writing to the Health and Safety Activity, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225.
(2) A person certified by the Secretary under this paragraph will be a certified person, within the meaning of the provisions for subpart D of this part and § 75.1106 referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as long as that person continues to satisfy the requirements for qualification or certification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 54 FR 30514, July 20, 1989]
§ 75.150
Tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency; qualified person.
(a) The provisions of Subpart D—Ventilation of this part and § 75.1106 require that tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency be made by a qualified person. A person is a qualified person for this purpose if he is a certified person under § 75.100.
(b) Pending issuance of Federal standards, a person will be considered a qualified person for testing for methane and for oxygen deficiency:
(1) If he has been qualified for this purpose by the State in which the coal mine is located; or
(2) The Secretary may qualify persons for this purpose in a coal mine in which persons are not qualified for this purpose by the State upon an application and a satisfactory showing by the operator of the coal mine that each such person has been trained and designated by the operator to test for methane and oxygen deficiency and has made such tests for a period of 6 months immediately preceding the application. Applications for Secretarial qualification should be submitted to the Health and Safety Activity, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo. 80225.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978]
§ 75.151
Tests for methane; qualified person; additional requirement.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 75.150, on and after January 1, 1971, no person shall be a qualified person for testing for methane unless he demonstrates to the satisfaction of an authorized representative of the Secretary that he is qualified to test for methane with a portable methane detector approved by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration under part 22 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 8C).
§ 75.152
Tests of air flow; qualified person.
A person is a qualified person within the meaning of the provisions of Subpart D—Ventilation of this part requiring that tests of air flow be made by a qualified person only if he is a certified person under § 75.100 or a person trained and designated by a certified person to perform such tests.
§ 75.153
Electrical work; qualified person.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an individual is a qualified person within the meaning of §§ 75.511 and 75.512 to perform electrical
work (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) if:
(1) He has been qualified as a coal mine electrician by a State that has a coal mine electrical qualification program approved by the Secretary; or,
(2) He has at least 1 year of experience in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical training program approved by the Secretary; or,
(3) He has at least 1 year of experience, prior to the date of the application required by paragraph (c) of this section, in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and he attains a satisfactory grade on each of the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary and prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The series of five written tests approved by the Secretary shall include the following categories:
(1) Direct current theory and application;
(2) Alternating current theory and application;
(3) Electric equipment and circuits;
(4) Permissibility of electric equipment; and,
(5) Requirements of subparts F through K of this part 75.
(c) In order to take the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary, an individual shall apply to the District Manager and shall certify that he meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The tests will be administered in the Coal Mine Safety and Health Districts at regular intervals, or as demand requires.
(d) A score of at least 80 percent of each of the five written tests will be deemed to be a satisfactory grade. Recognition shall be given to practical experience in that 1 percentage point shall be added to an individual's score in each test for each additional year of experience beyond the 1 year minimum requirement specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; however, in no case shall an individual be given more than 5 percentage points for such practical experience.
(e) An individual may, within 30 days from the date on which he received notification from the Administration of his test scores, repeat those on which he received an unsatisfactory score. If further retesting is necessary after this initial repetition, a minimum of 30 days from the date of receipt of notification of the initial retest scores shall elapse prior to such further retesting.
(f) An individual who has, prior to November 1, 1972, been qualified to perform electrical work specified in §§ 75.511 and 75.512 (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) shall continue to be qualified until June 30, 1973. To remain qualified after June 30, 1973, such individual shall meet the requirements of either paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(g) An individual qualified in accordance with this section shall, in order to retain qualification, certify annually to the District Manager, that he has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical retraining program approved by the Secretary.
[37 FR 22376, Oct. 19, 1972, as amended at 44 FR 9380, Feb. 13, 1979; 47 FR 23641, May 28, 1982]
§ 75.154
Repair of energized surface high voltage lines; qualified person.
An individual is a qualified person within the meaning of § 75.705 for the purpose of repairing energized surface high voltage lines only if he has had at least 2 years experience in electrical maintenance, and at least 2 years experience in the repair of energized high voltage surface lines located on poles or structures.
§ 75.155
Qualified hoisting engineer; qualifications.
(a)(1) A person is a qualified hoisting engineer within the provisions of subpart O of this part, for the purpose of operating a steam-driven hoist in a coal mine, if he has at least 1 year experience as an engineer in a steam-
driven hoisting plant and is qualified by the State in which the mine is located as a steam-hoisting engineer; or
(2) If a State has no program for qualifying persons as steam-hoisting engineers, the Secretary may qualify persons for this purpose if the operator of the coal mine in which such persons are employed, or the independent contractor, makes an application and a satisfactory showing that each such person has had 1 year experience in operating steam-driven hoists and has held the position of hoisting engineer for a period of 6 months immediately preceding the application. A person's qualification is valid for as long as this person continues to satisfy the requirements necessary for qualification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor.
(b)(1) A person is a qualified hoisting engineer within the provisions of subpart O of this part, for the purpose of operating an electrically driven hoist in a coal mine, if he has at least 1 year experience operating a hoist plant in a mine or maintaining electric-hoist equipment in a mine and is qualified by the State in which the mine is located as an electric-hoisting engineer; or
(2) If a State has no program for qualifying persons as electric-hoisting engineers, the Secretary may qualify persons for this purpose if the operator of the coal mine in which such persons are employed, or the independent contractor, makes an application and a satisfactory showing that each such person has had 1 year experience in operating electric-driven hoists and has held the position of hoisting engineer for a period of 6 months immediately preceding the application. A person's qualification is valid for as long as this person continues to satisfy the requirements for qualification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor.
(c) Applications for Secretarial qualification should be submitted to the Health and Safety Activity, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo. 80225.
[35 FR 17894, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 54 FR 30515, July 20, 1989]
§ 75.156
AMS operator, qualifications.
(a) To be qualified as an AMS operator, a person shall be provided with task training on duties and responsibilities at each mine where an AMS operator is employed in accordance with the mine operator's approved Part 48 training plan.
(b) An AMS operator must be able to demonstrate to an authorized representative of the Secretary that he/she is qualified to perform in the assigned position.
[73 FR 80612, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.159
Records of certified and qualified persons.
The operator of each coal mine shall maintain a list of all certified and qualified persons designated to perform duties under this part 75.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.160
Training programs.

# [Statutory Provision]
Every operator of a coal mine shall provide a program, approved by the Secretary, of training and retraining of both qualified and certified persons needed to carry out functions prescribed in the Act.
§ 75.161
Plans for training programs.
Each operator must submit to the district manager, of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located, a program or plan setting forth what, when, how, and where the operator will train and retrain persons whose work assignments require that they be certified or qualified. The program must provide—
(a) For certified persons, annual training courses in first aid, principles of mine rescue, and the provisions of this part 75; and
(b) For qualified persons, annual courses in performance of the task which they perform as qualified persons.
[63 FR 53761, Oct. 6, 1998]

# Subpart C—Roof Support

# Source:
53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.200
Scope.
This subpart C sets forth requirements for controlling roof, face and ribs, including coal or rock bursts, in underground coal mines. Roof control systems installed prior to the effective date of this subpart are not affected so long as the support system continues to effectively control the roof, face and ribs.
§ 75.201
Definitions.
Automated temporary roof support (ATRS) system.
A device to provide temporary roof support from a location where the equipment operator is protected from roof falls.
Pillar recovery.
Any reduction in pillar size during retreat mining.
§ 75.202
Protection from falls of roof, face and ribs.
(a) The roof, face and ribs of areas where persons work or travel shall be supported or otherwise controlled to protect persons from hazards related to falls of the roof, face or ribs and coal or rock bursts.
(b) No person shall work or travel under unsupported roof unless in accordance with this subpart.
§ 75.203
Mining methods.
(a) The method of mining shall not expose any person to hazards caused by excessive widths of rooms, crosscuts and entries, or faulty pillar recovery methods. Pillar dimensions shall be compatible with effective control of the roof, face and ribs and coal or rock bursts.
(b) A sightline or other method of directional control shall be used to maintain the projected direction of mining in entries, rooms, crosscuts and pillar splits.
(c) A sidecut shall be started only from an area that is supported in accordance with the roof control plan.
(d) A working face shall not be mined through into an unsupported area of active workings, except when the unsupported area is inaccessible.
(e) Additional roof support shall be installed where—
(1) The width of the opening specified in the roof control plan is exceeded by more than 12 inches; and
(2) The distance over which the excessive width exists is more than 5 feet.
§ 75.204
Roof bolting.
(a) For roof bolts and accessories addressed in ASTM F432-95, “Standard Specification for Roof and Rock Bolts and Accessories,” the mine operator shall—
(1) Obtain a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufactured and tested in accordance with the specifications of ASTM F432-95; and
(2) Make this certification available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to the representative of miners.
(b) Roof bolts and accessories not addressed in ASTM F432-95 may be used, provided that the use of such materials is approved by the District Manager based on—
(1) Demonstrations which show that the materials have successfully supported the roof in an area of a coal mine with similar strata, opening dimensions and roof stresses; or
(2) Tests which show the materials to be effective for supporting the roof in an area of the affected mine which has similar strata, opening dimensions and roof stresses as the area where the roof bolts are to be used. During the test process, access to the test area shall be limited to persons necessary to conduct the test.
(c)(1) A bearing plate shall be firmly installed with each roof bolt.
(2) Bearing plates used directly against the mine roof shall be at least 6 inches square or the equivalent, except that where the mine roof is firm and not susceptible to sloughing, bearing plates 5 inches square or the equivalent may be used.
(3) Bearing plates used with wood or metal materials shall be at least 4 inches square or the equivalent.
(4) Wooden materials that are used between a bearing plate and the mine roof in areas which will exist for three years or more shall be treated to minimize deterioration.
(d) When washers are used with roof bolts, the washers shall conform to the shape of the roof bolt head and bearing plate.
(e)(1) The diameter of finishing bits shall be within a tolerance of plus or minus 0.030 inch of the manufacturer's recommended hole diameter for the anchor used.
(2) When separate finishing bits are used, they shall be distinguishable from other bits.
(f)
Tensioned roof bolts.
(1) Roof bolts that provide support by creating a beam of laminated strata shall be at least 30 inches long. Roof bolts that provide support by suspending the roof from overlying stronger strata shall be long enough to anchor at least 12 inches into the stronger strata.
(2) Test holes, spaced at intervals specified in the roof control plan, shall be drilled to a depth of at least 12 inches above the anchorage horizon of mechanically anchored tensioned bolts being used. When a test hole indicates that bolts would not anchor in competent strata, corrective action shall be taken.
(3) The installed torque or tension ranges for roof bolts as specified in the roof control plan shall maintain the integrity of the support system and shall not exceed the yield point of the roof bolt nor anchorage capacity of the strata.
(4) In each roof bolting cycle, the actual torque or tension of the first tensioned roof bolt installed with each drill head shall be measured immediately after it is installed. Thereafter, for each drill head used, at least one roof bolt out of every four installed shall be measured for actual torque or tension. If the torque or tension of any of the roof bolts measured is not within the range specified in the roof control plan, corrective action shall be taken.
(5) In working places from which coal is produced during any portion of a 24-hour period, the actual torque or tension on at least one out of every ten previously installed mechanically anchored tensioned roof bolts shall be measured from the outby corner of the last open crosscut to the face in each advancing section. Corrective action shall be taken if the majority of the bolts measured—
(i) Do not maintain at least 70 percent of the minimum torque or tension specified in the roof control plan, 50 percent if the roof bolt plates bear against wood; or
(ii) Have exceeded the maximum specified torque or tension by 50 percent.
(6) The mine operator or a person designated by the operator shall certify by signature and date that measurements required by paragraph (f)(5) of this section have been made. This certification shall be maintained for at least one year and shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and representatives of the miners.
(7) Tensioned roof bolts installed in the roof support pattern shall not be used to anchor trailing cables or used for any other purpose that could affect the tension of the bolt. Hanging trailing cables, line brattice, telephone lines, or other similar devices which do not place sudden loads on the bolts are permitted.
(8) Angle compensating devices shall be used to compensate for the angle when tensioned roof bolts are installed at angles greater than 5 degrees from the perpendicular to the bearing plate.
(g)
Non-tensioned grouted roof bolts.
The first non-tensioned grouted roof bolt installed during each roof bolting cycle shall be tested during or immediately after the first row of bolts has been installed. If the bolt tested does not withstand at least 150 foot-pounds of torque without rotating in the hole, corrective action shall be taken.
[53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 4595, Feb. 8, 1990; 63 FR 20030, Apr. 22, 1998]
§ 75.205
Installation of roof support using mining machines with integral roof bolters.
When roof bolts are installed by a continuous mining machine with integral roof bolting equipment:
(a) The distance between roof bolts shall not exceed 10 feet crosswise.
(b) Roof bolts to be installed 9 feet or more apart shall be installed with a wooden crossbar at least 3 inches thick and 8 inches wide, or material which provides equivalent support.
(c) Roof bolts to be installed more than 8 feet but less than 9 feet apart shall be installed with a wooden plank at least 2 inches thick and 8 inches
wide, or material which provides equivalent support.
§ 75.206
Conventional roof support.
(a) Except in anthracite mines using non-mechanized mining systems, when conventional roof support materials are used as the only means of support—
(1) The width of any opening shall not exceed 20 feet;
(2) The spacing of roadway roof support shall not exceed 5 feet;
(3)(i) Supports shall be installed to within 5 feet of the uncut face;
(ii) When supports nearest the face must be removed to facilitate the operation of face equipment, equivalent temporary support shall be installed prior to removing the supports;
(4) Straight roadways shall not exceed 16 feet wide where full overhead support is used and 14 feet wide where only posts are used;
(5) Curved roadways shall not exceed 16 feet wide; and
(6) The roof at the entrance of all openings along travelways which are no longer needed for storing supplies or for travel of equipment shall be supported by extending the line of support across the opening.
(b) Conventional roof support materials shall meet the following specifications:
(1) The minimum diameter of cross-sectional area of wooden posts shall be as follows:
Post length (in inches)
Diameter of round posts (in inches)
Cross-sectional area of split posts (in square inches)
60 or less
4
13
Over 60 to 84
5
20
Over 84 to 108
6
28
Over 108 to 132
7
39
Over 132 to 156
8
50
Over 156 to 180
9
64
Over 180 to 204
10
79
Over 204 to 228
11
95
Over 228
12
113
(2) Wooden materials used for support shall have the following dimensions:
(i) Cap blocks and footings shall have flat sides and be at least 2 inches thick, 4 inches wide and 12 inches long.
(ii) Crossbars shall have a minimum cross-sectional area of 24 square inches and be at least 3 inches thick.
(iii) Planks shall be at least 6 inches wide and 1 inch thick.
(3) Cribbing materials shall have at least two parallel flat sides.
(c) A cluster of two or more posts that provide equivalent strength may be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that no post shall have a diameter less than 4 inches or have a cross-sectional area less than 13 square inches.
(d) Materials other than wood used for support shall have support strength at least equivalent to wooden material meeting the applicable provisions of this section.
(e) Posts and jacks shall be tightly installed on solid footing.
(f) When posts are installed under roof susceptible to sloughing a cap block, plank, crossbar or materials that are equally effective shall be placed between the post and the roof.
(g) Blocks used for lagging between the roof and crossbars shall be spaced to distribute the load.
(h) Jacks used for roof support shall be used with at least 36 square inches of roof bearing surface.
[53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 14228, Apr. 16, 1990; 55 FR 20137, May 15, 1990]
§ 75.207
Pillar recovery.
Pillar recovery shall be conducted in the following manner, unless otherwise specified in the roof control plan:
(a) Full and partial pillar recovery shall not be conducted on the same pillar line, except where physical conditions such as unstable floor or roof, falls of roof, oil and gas well barriers or surface subsidence require that pillars be left in place.
(b) Before mining is started in a pillar split or lift—
(1) At least two rows of breaker posts or equivalent support shall be installed—
(i) As close to the initial intended breakline as practicable; and
(ii) Across each opening leading into an area where full or partial pillar extraction has been completed.
(2) A row of roadside-radius (turn) posts or equivalent support shall be installed leading into the split or lift.
(c) Before mining is started on a final stump—
(1) At least 2 rows of posts or equivalent support shall be installed on not more than 4-foot centers on each side of the roadway; and
(2) Only one open roadway, which shall not exceed 16 feet wide, shall lead from solid pillars to the final stump of a pillar. Where posts are used as the sole means of roof support, the width of the roadway shall not exceed 14 feet.
(d) During open-end pillar extraction, at least 2 rows of breaker posts or equivalent support shall be installed on not more than 4-foot centers. These supports shall be installed between the lift to be started and the area where pillars have been extracted. These supports shall be maintained to within 7 feet of the face and the width of the roadway shall not exceed 16 feet. Where posts are used as the sole means of roof support, the width of the roadway shall not exceed 14 feet.
§ 75.208
Warning devices.
Except during the installation of roof supports, the end of permanent roof support shall be posted with a readily visible warning, or a physical barrier shall be installed to impede travel beyond permanent support.
§ 75.209
Automated Temporary Roof Support (ATRS) systems.
(a) Except in anthracite mines and as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an ATRS system shall be used with roof bolting machines and continuous-mining machines with integral roof bolters operated in a working section. The requirements of this paragraph shall be met according to the following schedule:
(1) All new machines ordered after March 28, 1988.
(2) All existing machines operated in mining heights of 36 inches or more after March 28, 1989; and
(3) All existing machines operated in mining heights of 30 inches or more but less than 36 inches after March 28, 1990.
(b) After March 28, 1990 the use of ATRS systems with existing roof bolting machines and continuous-mining machines with integral roof bolters operated in a working section where the mining height is less than 30 inches shall be addressed in the roof control plan.
(c) Alternative means of temporary support shall be used, as specified in the roof control plan, when—
(1) Mining conditions or circumstances prevent the use of an ATRS system; or
(2) Temporary supports are installed in conjunction with an ATRS system.
(d) Persons shall work or travel between the support device of the ATRS system and another support, and the distance between the support device of the ATRS system and support to the left, right or beyond the ATRS system, shall not exceed 5 feet.
(e) Each ATRS system shall meet each of the following:
(1) The ATRS system shall elastically support a deadweight load measured in pounds of at least 450 times each square foot of roof intended to be supported, but in no case less than 11,250 pounds.
(2) The controls that position and set the ATRS system shall be—
(i) Operable from under permanently supported roof; or
(ii) Located in a compartment, which includes a deck, that provides the equipment operator with overhead and lateral protection, and has the structural capacity to elastically support a deadweight load of at least 18,000 pounds.
(3) All jacks affecting the capacity of the ATRS system and compartment shall have check valves or equivalent devices that will prevent rapid collapse in the event of a system failure.
(4) Except for the main tram controls, tram controls for positioning the equipment to set the ATRS system shall limit the speed of the equipment to a maximum of 80 feet-per-minute.
(f) The support capacity of each ATRS system and the structural capacity of each compartment shall be certified by a registered engineer as meeting the applicable requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. The certifications shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and representative of the miners.
§ 75.210
Manual installation of temporary support.
(a) When manually installing temporary support, only persons engaged
in installing the support shall proceed beyond permanent support.
(b) When manually installing temporary supports, the first temporary support shall be set no more than 5 feet from a permanent roof support and the rib. All temporary supports shall be set so that the person installing the supports remains between the temporary support being set and two other supports which shall be no more than 5 feet from the support being installed. Each temporary support shall be completely installed prior to installing the next temporary support.
(c) All temporary supports shall be placed on no more than 5-foot centers.
(d) Once temporary supports have been installed, work or travel beyond permanent roof support shall be done between temporary supports and the nearest permanent support or between other temporary supports.
§ 75.211
Roof testing and scaling.
(a) A visual examination of the roof, face and ribs shall be made immediately before any work is started in an area and thereafter as conditions warrant.
(b) Where the mining height permits and the visual examination does not disclose a hazardous condition, sound and vibration roof tests, or other equivalent tests, shall be made where supports are to be installed. When sound and vibration tests are made, they shall be conducted—
(1) After the ATRS system is set against the roof and before other support is installed; or
(2) Prior to manually installing a roof support. This test shall begin under supported roof and progress no further than the location where the next support is to be installed.
(c) When a hazardous roof, face, or rib condition is detected, the condition shall be corrected before there is any other work or travel in the affected area. If the affected area is left unattended, each entrance to the area shall be posted with a readily visible warning, or a physical barrier shall be installed to impede travel into the area.
(d) A bar for taking down loose material shall be available in the working place or on all face equipment except haulage equipment. Bars provided for taking down loose material shall be of a length and design that will allow the removal of loose material from a position that will not expose the person performing this work to injury from falling material.
§ 75.212
Rehabilitation of areas with unsupported roof.
(a) Before rehabilitating each area where a roof fall has occurred or the roof has been removed by mining machines or by blasting—
(1) The mine operator shall establish the clean up and support procedures that will be followed;
(2) All persons assigned to perform rehabilitation work shall be instructed in the clean-up and support procedures; and
(3) Ineffective, damaged or missing roof support at the edge of the area to be rehabilitated shall be replaced or other equivalent support installed.
(b) All persons who perform rehabilitation work shall be experienced in this work or they shall be supervised by a person experienced in rehabilitation work who is designated by the mine operator.
(c) Where work is not being performed to rehabilitate an area in active workings where a roof fall has occurred or the roof has been removed by mining machines or by blasting, each entrance to the area shall be supported by at least one row of posts on not more than 5-foot centers, or equally effective support.
§ 75.213
Roof support removal.
(a)(1) All persons who perform the work of removing permanent roof supports shall be supervised by a management person experienced in removing roof supports.
(2) Only persons with at least one year of underground mining experience shall perform permanent roof support removal work.
(b) Prior to the removal of permanent roof supports, the person supervising roof support removal in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall examine the roof conditions in the area where the supports are to be removed and designate each support to be removed.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, prior to the removal of permanent supports, a row of temporary supports on no more than 5-foot centers or equivalent support shall be installed across the opening within 4 feet of the supports being removed. Additional supports shall be installed where necessary to assure safe removal.
(2) Prior to the removal of roof bolts, temporary support shall be installed as close as practicable to each roof bolt being removed.
(d) Temporary supports installed in accordance with this section shall not be removed unless—
(1) Removal is done by persons who are in a remote location under supported roof; and
(2) At least two rows of temporary supports, set across the opening on no more than 5-foot centers, are maintained between the miners and the unsupported area.
(e) Each entrance to an area where supports have been removed shall be posted with a readily visible warning or a physical barrier shall be installed to impede travel into the area.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, permanent support shall not be removed where—
(1) Roof bolt torque or tension measurements or the condition of conventional support indicate excessive loading;
(2) Roof fractures are present;
(3) There is any other indication that the roof is structurally weak; or
(4) Pillar recovery has been conducted.
(g) Permanent supports may be removed provided that:
(1) Removal is done by persons who are in a remote location under supported roof; and
(2) At least two rows of temporary supports, set across the opening on no more than 5-foot centers, are maintained between the miners and the unsupported area.
(h) The provisions of this section do not apply to removal of conventional supports for starting crosscuts and pillar splits or lifts except that prior to the removal of these supports an examination of the roof conditions shall be made.
[55 FR 4595, Feb. 8, 1990]
§ 75.214
Supplemental support materials, equipment and tools.
(a) A supply of supplementary roof support materials and the tools and equipment necessary to install the materials shall be available at a readily accessible location on each working section or within four crosscuts of each working section.
(b) The quantity of support materials and tools and equipment maintained available in accordance with this section shall be sufficient to support the roof if adverse roof conditions are encountered, or in the event of an accident involving a fall.
§ 75.215
Longwall mining systems.
For each longwall mining section, the roof control plan shall specify—
(a) The methods that will be used to maintain a safe travelway out of the section through the tailgate side of the longwall; and
(b) The procedures that will be followed if a ground failure prevents travel out of the section through the tailgate side of the longwall.
§ 75.220
Roof control plan.
(a)(1) Each mine operator shall develop and follow a roof control plan, approved by the District Manager, that is suitable to the prevailing geological conditions, and the mining system to be used at the mine. Additional measures shall be taken to protect persons if unusual hazards are encountered.
(2) The proposed roof control plan and any revisions to the plan shall be submitted, in writing, to the District Manager. When revisions to a roof control plan are proposed, only the revised pages need to be submitted unless otherwise specified by the District Manager.
(b)(1) The mine operator will be notified in writing of the approval or denial of approval of a proposed roof control plan or proposed revision.
(2) When approval of a proposed plan or revision is denied, the deficiencies of the plan or revision and recommended changes will be specified and the mine
operator will be afforded an opportunity to discuss the deficiencies and changes with the District Manager.
(3) Before new support materials, devices or systems other than roof bolts and accessories, are used as the only means of roof support, the District Manager may require that their effectiveness be demonstrated by experimental installations.
(c) No proposed roof control plan or revision to a roof control plan shall be implemented before it is approved.
(d) Before implementing an approved revision to a roof control plan, all persons who are affected by the revision shall be instructed in its provisions.
(e) The approved roof control plan and any revisions shall be available to the miners and representative of miners at the mine.
[53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988; 53 FR 11395, Apr. 6, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.221
Roof control plan information.
(a) The following information shall be included in each roof control plan:
(1) The name and address of the company.
(2) The name, address, mine identification number and location of the mine.
(3) The name and title of the company official responsible for the plan.
(4) A typical columnar section of the mine strata which shall—
(i) Show the name and the thickness of the coalbed to be mined and any persistent partings;
(ii) Identify the type and show the thickness of each stratum up to and including the main roof above the coalbed and for distance of at least 10 feet below the coalbed; and
(iii) Indicate the maximum cover over the area to be mined.
(5) A description and drawings of the sequence of installation and spacing of supports for each method of mining used.
(6) When an ATRS system is used, the maximum distance that an ATRS system is to be set beyond the last row of permanent support.
(7) When tunnel liners or arches are to be used for roof support, specifications and installation procedures for the liners or arches.
(8) Drawings indicating the planned width of openings, size of pillars, method of pillar recovery, and the sequence of mining pillars.
(9) A list of all support materials required to be used in the roof, face and rib control system, including, if roof bolts are to be installed—
(i) The length, diameter, grade and type of anchorage unit to be used;
(ii) The drill hole size to be used; and
(iii) The installed torque or tension range for tensioned roof bolts.
(10) When mechanically anchored tensioned roof bolts are used, the intervals at which test holes will be drilled.
(11) A description of the method of protecting persons—
(i) From falling material at drift openings; and
(ii) When mining approaches within 150 feet of an outcrop.
(12) A description of the roof and rib support necessary for the refuge alternatives.
(b) Each drawing submitted with a roof control plan shall contain a legend explaining all symbols used and shall specify the scale of the drawing which shall not be less than 5 feet to the inch or more than 20 feet to the inch.
(c) All roof control plan information, including drawings, shall be submitted on 8
1/2
by 11 inch paper, or paper folded to this size.
[53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.222
Roof control plan-approval criteria.
(a) This section sets forth the criteria that shall be considered on a mine-by-mine basis in the formulation and approval of roof control plans and revisions. Additional measures may be required in plans by the District Manager. Roof control plans that do not conform to the applicable criteria in this section may be approved by the District Manager, provided that effective control of the roof, face and ribs can be maintained.
(b)
Roof Bolting.
(1) Roof bolts should be installed on centers not exceeding 5 feet lengthwise and crosswise, except as specified in § 75.205.
(2) When tensioned roof bolts are used as a means of roof support, the
torque or tension range should be capable of supporting roof bolt loads of at least 50 percent of either the yield point of the bolt or anchorage capacity of the strata, whichever is less.
(3) Any opening that is more than 20 feet wide should be supported by a combination of roof bolts and conventional supports.
(4) In any opening more than 20 feet wide—
(i) Posts should be installed to limit each roadway to 16 feet wide where straight and 18 feet wide where curved; and
(ii) A row of posts should be set for each 5 feet of space between the roadway posts and the ribs.
(5) Openings should not be more than 30 feet wide.
(c)
Installation of roof support using mining machines with integral roof bolters.
(1) Before an intersection or pillar split is started, roof bolts should be installed on at least 5-foot centers where the work is performed.
(2) Where the roof is supported by only two roof bolts crosswise, openings should not be more than 16 feet wide.
(d)
Pillar recovery.
(1) During development, any dimension of a pillar should be at least 20 feet.
(2) Pillar splits and lifts should not be more than 20 feet wide.
(3) Breaker posts should be installed on not more than 4-foot centers.
(4) Roadside-radius (turn) posts, or equivalent support, should be installed on not more than 4-foot centers leading into each pillar split or lift.
(5) Before full pillar recovery is started in areas where roof bolts are used as the only means of roof support and openings are more than 16 feet wide, at least one row of posts should be installed to limit the roadway width to 16 feet. These posts should be—
(i) Extended from the entrance to the split through the intersection outby the pillar in which the split or lift is being made; and
(ii) Spaced on not more than 5-foot centers.
(e)
Unsupported openings at intersections.
Openings that create an intersection should be permanently supported or at least one row of temporary supports should be installed on not more than 5-foot centers across the opening before any other work or travel in the intersection.
(f)
ATRS systems in working sections where the mining height is below 30 inches.
In working sections where the mining height is below 30 inches, an ATRS system should be used to the extent practicable during the installation of roof bolts with roof bolting machines and continuous-mining machines with integral roof bolters.
(g)
Longwall mining systems.
(1) Systematic supplemental support should be installed throughout—
(i) The tailgate entry of the first longwall panel prior to any mining; and
(ii) In the proposed tailgate entry of each subsequent panel in advance of the frontal abutment stresses of the panel being mined.
(2) When a ground failure prevents travel out of the section through the tailgate side of the longwall section, the roof control plan should address—
(i) Notification of miners that the travelway is blocked;
(ii) Re-instruction of miners regarding escapeways and escape procedures in the event of an emergency;
(iii) Re-instruction of miners on the availability and use of self-contained self-rescue devices;
(iv) Monitoring and evaluation of the air entering the longwall section;
(v) Location and effectiveness of the two-way communication systems; and
(vi) A means of transportation from the section to the main line.
(3) The plan provisions addressed by paragraph (g)(2) of this section should remain in effect until a travelway is reestablished on the tailgate side of a longwall section.
§ 75.223
Evaluation and revision of roof control plan.
(a) Revisions of the roof control plan shall be proposed by the operator—
(1) When conditions indicate that the plan is not suitable for controlling the roof, face, ribs, or coal or rock bursts; or
(2) When accident and injury experience at the mine indicates the plan is inadequate. The accident and injury experience at each mine shall be reviewed at least every six months.
(b) Each unplanned roof fall and rib fall and coal or rock burst that occurs in the active workings shall be plotted on a mine map if it—
(1) Is above the anchorage zone where roof bolts are used;
(2) Impairs ventilation;
(3) Impedes passage of persons;
(4) Causes miners to be withdrawn from the area affected; or
(5) Disrupts regular mining activities for more than one hour.
(c) The mine map on which roof falls are plotted shall be available at the mine site for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners at the mine.
(d) The roof control plan for each mine shall be reviewed every six months by an authorized representative of the Secretary. This review shall take into consideration any falls of the roof, face and ribs and the adequacy of the support systems used at the time.
[53 FR 2375, Jan. 27, 1988; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]

# Subpart D—Ventilation

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 863.

# Source:
61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.300
Scope.
This subpart sets requirements for underground coal mine ventilation.
§ 75.301
Definitions.
In addition to the applicable definitions in § 75.2, the following definitions apply in this subpart.
Air course.
An entry or a set of entries separated from other entries by stoppings, overcasts, other ventilation control devices, or by solid blocks of coal or rock so that any mixing of air currents between each is limited to leakage.
AMS operator.
The person(s), designated by the mine operator, who is located on the surface of the mine and monitors the malfunction, alert, and alarm signals of the AMS and notifies appropriate personnel of these signals.
Appropriate personnel.
The person or persons designated by the operator to perform specific tasks in response to AMS signals. Appropriate personnel include the responsible person(s) required by § 75.1501 when an emergency evacuation is necessary.
Atmospheric Monitoring System (AMS).
A network consisting of hardware and software meeting the requirements of §§ 75.351 and 75.1103-2 and capable of: measuring atmospheric parameters; transmitting the measurements to a designated surface location; providing alert and alarm signals; processing and cataloging atmospheric data; and, providing reports. Early-warning fire detection systems using newer technology that provides equal or greater protection, as determined by the Secretary, will be considered atmospheric monitoring systems for the purposes of this subpart.
Belt air course.
The entry in which a belt is located and any adjacent entry(ies) not separated from the belt entry by permanent ventilation controls, including any entries in series with the belt entry, terminating at a return regulator, a section loading point, or the surface.
Carbon monoxide ambient level.
The average concentration in parts per million (ppm) of carbon monoxide detected in an air course containing carbon monoxide sensors. This average concentration is representative of the composition of the mine atmosphere over a period of mining activity during non-fire conditions. Separate ambient levels may be established for different areas of the mine.
Incombustible.
Incapable of being burned.
Intake air.
Air that has not yet ventilated the last working place on any split of any working section, or any worked-out area, whether pillared or nonpillared.
Intrinsically safe.
Incapable of releasing enough electrical or thermal energy under normal or abnormal conditions to cause ignition of a flammable mixture of methane or natural gas and air of the most easily ignitable composition.
Noncombustible structure or area.
Describes a structure or area that will continue to provide protection against flame spread for at least 1 hour when subjected to a fire test incorporating an ASTM E119-88 time/temperature
heat input, or equivalent. The publication ASTM E119-88 “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials” is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
Noncombustible material.
Describes a material that, when used to construct a ventilation control, results in a control that will continue to serve its intended function for 1 hour when subjected to a fire test incorporating an ASTM E119-88 time/temperature heat input, or equivalent. The publication ASTM E119-88 “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials” is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
Point feeding.
The process of providing additional intake air to the belt air course from another intake air course through a regulator.
Return air.
Air that has ventilated the last working place on any split of any working section or any worked-out area whether pillared or nonpillared. If air mixes with air that has ventilated the last working place on any split of any working section or any worked-out area, whether pillared or nonpillared, it is considered return air. For the purposes of § 75.507-1, air that has been used to ventilate any working place in a coal producing section or pillared area, or air that has been used to ventilate any working face if such air is directed away from the immediate return is return air. Notwithstanding the definition of intake air, for the purpose of ventilation of structures, areas or installations that are required by this subpart D to be ventilated to return air courses, and for ventilation of seals, other air courses may be designated as return air courses by the operator only when the air in these air courses will not be used to ventilate working places or other locations, structures, installations or areas required to be ventilated with intake air.
Worked-out area.
An area where mining has been completed, whether pillared or nonpillared, excluding developing entries, return air courses, and intake air courses.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 29288, June 10, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 69 FR 17526, Apr. 2, 2004; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52990, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.302
Main mine fans.
Each coal mine shall be ventilated by one or more main mine fans. Booster fans shall not be installed underground to assist main mine fans except in anthracite mines. In anthracite mines, booster fans installed in the main air current or a split of the main air current may be used provided their use is approved in the ventilation plan.
§ 75.310
Installation of main mine fans.
(a) Each main mine fan shall be—
(1) Installed on the surface in an incombustible housing;
(2) Connected to the mine opening with incombustible air ducts;
(3) Equipped with an automatic device that gives a signal at the mine when the fan either slows or stops. A responsible person designated by the operator shall always be at a surface location at the mine where the signal can be seen or heard while anyone is underground. This person shall be provided with two-way communication with the working sections and work stations where persons are routinely assigned to work for the majority of a shift;
(4) Equipped with a pressure recording device or system. Mines permitted to shut down main mine fans under § 75.311 and which do not have a pressure recording device installed on main mine fans shall have until June 10, 1997 to install a pressure recording device or system on all main mine fans. If a device or system other than a circular pressure recorder is used to monitor main mine fan pressure, the monitoring device or system shall provide a continuous graph or continuous chart of the pressure as a function of time. At not more than 7-day intervals, a hard copy of the continuous graph or chart shall be generated or the record of the fan pressure shall be stored electronically. When records of fan pressure are stored electronically, the system used to store these records shall be secure and not susceptible to alteration and shall be capable of storing the required data. Records of the fan pressure shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners;
(5) Protected by one or more weak walls or explosion doors, or a combination of weak walls and explosion doors, located in direct line with possible explosive forces;
(6) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, offset by at least 15 feet from the nearest side of the mine opening unless an alternative method of protecting the fan and its associated components is approved in the ventilation plan.
(b)(1) If an electric motor is used to drive a main mine fan, the motor shall operate from a power circuit independent of all mine power circuits.
(2) If an internal combustion engine is used to drive a main mine fan—
(i) The fuel supply shall be protected against fires and explosions;
(ii) The engine shall be installed in an incombustible housing and be equipped with a remote shut-down device;
(iii) The engine and the engine exhaust system shall be located out of direct line of the air current exhausting from the mine; and
(iv) The engine exhaust shall be vented to the atmosphere so that the exhaust gases do not contaminate the mine intake air current or any enclosure.
(c) If a main mine fan monitoring system is used under § 75.312, the system shall—
(1) Record, as described in paragraph (a)(4) the mine ventilating pressure;
(2) Monitor bearing temperature, revolutions per minute, vibration, electric voltage, and amperage;
(3) Provide a printout of the monitored parameters, including the mine ventilating pressure within a reasonable period, not to exceed the end of the next scheduled shift during which miners are underground; and
(4) Be equipped with an automatic device that signals when—
(i) An electrical or mechanical deficiency exists in the monitoring system; or
(ii) A sudden increase or loss in mine ventilating pressure occurs.
(5) Provide monitoring, records, printouts, and signals required by paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) at a surface location at the mine where a responsible person designated by the operator is always on duty and where signals from the monitoring system can be seen or heard while anyone is underground. This person shall be provided with two-way communication with the working sections and work stations where persons are routinely assigned to work for the majority of a shift.
(d) Weak walls and explosion doors shall have cross-sectional areas at least equal to that of the entry through which the pressure from an explosion
underground would be relieved. A weak wall and explosion door combination shall have a total cross-sectional area at least equal to that of the entry through which the pressure from an explosion underground would be relieved.
(e) If a mine fan is installed in line with an entry, a slope, or a shaft—
(1) The cross-sectional area of the pressure relief entry shall be at least equal to that of the fan entry;
(2) The fan entry shall be developed out of direct line with possible explosive forces;
(3) The coal or other solid material between the pressure relief entry and the fan entry shall be at least 2,500 square feet; and
(4) The surface opening of the pressure relief entry shall be not less than 15 feet nor more than 100 feet from the surface opening of the fan entry and from the underground intersection of the fan entry and pressure relief entry.
(f) In mines ventilated by multiple main mine fans, incombustible doors shall be installed so that if any main mine fan stops and air reversals through the fan are possible, the doors on the affected fan automatically close.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 20877, May 8, 1996]
§ 75.311
Main mine fan operation.
(a) Main mine fans shall be continuously operated, except as otherwise approved in the ventilation plan, or when intentionally stopped for testing of automatic closing doors and automatic fan signal devices, maintenance or adjustment of the fan, or to perform maintenance or repair work underground that cannot otherwise be made while the fan is operating.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, when a main mine fan is intentionally stopped and the ventilating quantity provided by the fan is not maintained by a back-up fan system—
(1) Only persons necessary to evaluate the effect of the fan stoppage or restart, or to perform maintenance or repair work that cannot otherwise be made while the fan is operating, shall be permitted underground;
(2) Mechanized equipment shall be shut off before stopping the fan; and
(3) Electric power circuits entering underground areas of the mine shall be deenergized.
(c) When a back-up fan system is used that does not provide the ventilating quantity provided by the main mine fan, persons may be permitted in the mine and electric power circuits may be energized as specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(d) If an unusual variance in the mine ventilation pressure is observed, or if an electrical or mechanical deficiency of a main mine fan is detected, the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, or in the absence of the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, a designated certified person acting for the mine foreman or equivalent mine official shall be notified immediately, and appropriate action or repairs shall be instituted promptly.
(e) While persons are underground, a responsible person designated by the operator shall always be at a surface location where each main mine fan signal can be seen or heard.
(f) The area within 100 feet of main mine fans and intake air openings shall be kept free of combustible material, unless alternative precautions necessary to provide protection from fire or other products of combustion are approved in the ventilation plan.
(g) If multiple mine fans are used, the mine ventilation system shall be designed and maintained to eliminate areas without air movement.
(h) Any atmospheric monitoring system operated during fan stoppages shall be intrinsically safe.
§ 75.312
Main mine fan examinations and records.
(a) To assure electrical and mechanical reliability of main mine fans, each main mine fan and its associated components, including devices for measuring or recording mine ventilation pressure, shall be examined for proper operation by a trained person designated by the operator. Examinations of main mine fans shall be made at least once each day that the fan operates, unless a fan monitoring system is used. No examination is required on
any day when no one, including certified persons, goes underground, except that an examination shall be completed prior to anyone entering the mine.
(b)(1) If a main mine fan monitoring system is used, a trained person designated by the operator shall—
(i) At least once each day review the data provided by the fan monitoring system to assure that the fan and the fan monitoring system are operating properly. No review is required on any day when no one, including certified persons, goes underground, except that a review of the data shall be performed prior to anyone entering the underground portion of the mine. Data reviewed should include the fan pressure, bearing temperature, revolutions per minute, vibration, electric voltage, and amperage; and
(ii) At least every 7 days—
(A) Test the monitoring system for proper operation; and
(B) Examine each main mine fan and its associated components to assure electrical and mechanical reliability of main mine fans.
(2) If the monitoring system malfunctions, the malfunction shall be corrected, or paragraph (a) of this section shall apply.
(c) At least every 31 days, the automatic fan signal device for each main mine fan shall be tested by stopping the fan. Only persons necessary to evaluate the effect of the fan stoppage or restart, or to perform maintenance or repair work that cannot otherwise be made while the fan is operating, shall be permitted underground. Notwithstanding the requirement of § 75.311(b)(3), underground power may remain energized during this test provided no one, including persons identified in § 75.311(b)(1), is underground. If the fan is not restarted within 15 minutes, underground power shall be deenergized and no one shall enter any underground area of the mine until the fan is restarted and an examination of the mine is conducted as described in § 75.360 (b) through (e) and the mine has been determined to be safe.
(d) At least every 31 days, the automatic closing doors in multiple main mine fan systems shall be tested by stopping the fan. Only persons necessary to evaluate the effect of the fan stoppage or restart, or to perform maintenance or repair work that cannot otherwise be made while the fan is operating, shall be permitted underground. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 75.311, underground power may remain energized during this test provided no one, including persons identified in § 75.311(b)(1), is underground. If the fan is not restarted within 15 minutes, underground power shall be deenergized and no one shall enter any underground area of the mine, until the fan is restarted and an examination of the mine is conducted as described in § 75.360 (b) through (e) and the mine has been determined to be safe.
(e) Circular main mine fan pressure recording charts shall be changed before the beginning of a second revolution.
(f)(1)
Certification.
Persons making main mine fan examinations shall certify by initials and date at the fan or another location specified by the operator that the examinations were made. Each certification shall identify the main mine fan examined.
(2) Persons reviewing data produced by a main mine fan monitoring system shall certify by initials and date on a printed copy of the data from the system that the review was completed. In lieu of certification on a copy of the data, the person reviewing the data may certify electronically that the review was completed. Electronic certification shall be by handwritten initials and date in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(g)(1)
Recordkeeping.
By the end of the shift on which the examination is made, persons making main mine fan examinations shall record all uncorrected defects that may affect the operation of the fan that are not corrected by the end of that shift. Records shall be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(2) When a fan monitoring system is used in lieu of the daily fan examination—
(i) The certified copies of data produced by fan monitoring systems shall be maintained separate from other computer-generated reports or data; and
(ii) A record shall be made of any fan monitoring system malfunctions, electrical or mechanical deficiencies in the monitoring system and any sudden increase or loss in mine ventilating pressure. The record shall be made by the end of the shift on which the review of the data is completed and shall be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(3) By the end of the shift on which the monthly test of the automatic fan signal device or the automatic closing doors is completed, persons making these tests shall record the results of the tests. Records shall be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(h)
Retention period.
Records, including records of mine fan pressure and the certified copies of data produced by fan monitoring systems, shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
§ 75.313
Main mine fan stoppage with persons underground.
(a) If a main mine fan stops while anyone is underground and the ventilating quantity provided by the fan is not maintained by a back-up fan system—
(1) Electrically powered equipment in each working section shall be deenergized;
(2) Other mechanized equipment in each working section shall be shut off; and
(3) Everyone shall be withdrawn from the working sections and areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed.
(b) If ventilation is restored within 15 minutes after a main mine fan stops, certified persons shall examine for methane in the working places and in other areas where methane is likely to accumulate before work is resumed and before equipment is energized or restarted in these areas.
(c) If ventilation is not restored within 15 minutes after a main mine fan stops—
(1) Everyone shall be withdrawn from the mine;
(2) Underground electric power circuits shall be deenergized. However, circuits necessary to withdraw persons from the mine need not be deenergized if located in areas or haulageways where methane is not likely to migrate to or accumulate. These circuits shall be deenergized as persons are withdrawn; and
(3) Mechanized equipment not located on working sections shall be shut off. However, mechanized equipment necessary to withdraw persons from the mine need not be shut off if located in areas where methane is not likely to migrate to or accumulate.
(d)(1) When ventilation is restored—
(i) No one other than designated certified examiners shall enter any underground area of the mine until an examination is conducted as described in § 75.360(b) through (e) and the area has been determined to be safe. Designated certified examiners shall enter the underground area of the mine from which miners have been withdrawn only after the fan has operated for at least 15 minutes unless a longer period of time is specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(ii) Underground power circuits shall not be energized and nonpermissible mechanized equipment shall not be started or operated in an area until an examination is conducted as described in § 75.360(b) through (e) and the area has been determined to be safe, except that designated certified examiners may use nonpermissible transportation equipment in intake airways to facilitate the making of the required examination.
(2) If ventilation is restored to the mine before miners reach the surface, the miners may return to underground working areas only after an examination of the areas is made by a certified person and the areas are determined to be safe.
(e) Any atmospheric monitoring system operated during fan stoppages shall be intrinsically safe.
(f) Any electrical refuge alternative components exposed to the mine atmosphere shall be approved as intrinsically safe for use during fan stoppages. Any electrical refuge alternative components located inside the refuge alternative shall be either approved as intrinsically safe or approved as permissible for use during fan stoppages.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.320
Air quality detectors and measurement devices.
(a) Tests for methane shall be made by a qualified person with MSHA approved detectors that are maintained in permissible and proper operating condition and calibrated with a known methane-air mixture at least once every 31 days.
(b) Tests for oxygen deficiency shall be made by a qualified person with MSHA approved oxygen detectors that are maintained in permissible and proper operating condition and that can detect 19.5 percent oxygen with an accuracy of ±0.5 percent. The oxygen detectors shall be calibrated at the start of each shift that the detectors will be used.
(c) Handheld devices that contain electrical components and that are used for measuring air velocity, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and other gases shall be approved and maintained in permissible and proper operating condition.
(d) An oxygen detector approved by MSHA shall be used to make tests for oxygen deficiency required by the regulations in this part. Permissible flame safety lamps may only be used as a supplementary testing device.
(e) Maintenance of instruments required by paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall be done by persons trained in such maintenance.
§ 75.321
Air quality.
(a)(1) The air in areas where persons work or travel, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall contain at least 19.5 percent oxygen and not more than 0.5 percent carbon dioxide, and the volume and velocity of the air current in these areas shall be sufficient to dilute, render harmless, and carry away flammable, explosive, noxious, and harmful gases, dusts, smoke, and fumes.
(2) The air in areas of bleeder entries and worked-out areas where persons work or travel shall contain at least 19.5 percent oxygen, and carbon dioxide levels shall not exceed 0.5 percent time weighted average and 3.0 percent short term exposure limit.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 75.322, for the purpose of preventing explosions from gases other than methane, the following gases shall not be permitted to accumulate in excess of the concentrations listed below:
(1) Carbon monoxide (CO)—2.5 percent
(2) Hydrogen (H
2
)—.80 percent
(3) Hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S)—.80 percent
(4) Acetylene (C
2
H
2
)—.40 percent
(5) Propane (C
3
H
8
)—.40 percent
(6) MAPP (methyl-acetylene-propylene-propodiene)—.30 percent
§ 75.322
Harmful quantities of noxious gases.
Concentrations of noxious or poisonous gases, other than carbon dioxide, shall not exceed the threshold limit values (TLV) as specified and applied by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists in “Threshold Limit Values for Substance in Workroom Air” (1972). Detectors or laboratory analysis of mine air samples shall be used to determine the concentrations of harmful, noxious, or poisonous gases. This incorporation by reference has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at every MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office. The material is available for examination at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go
to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[80 FR 52991, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.323
Actions for excessive methane.
(a)
Location of tests.
Tests for methane concentrations under this section shall be made at least 12 inches from the roof, face, ribs, and floor.
(b)
Working places and intake air courses.
(1) When 1.0 percent or more methane is present in a working place or an intake air course, including an air course in which a belt conveyor is located, or in an area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed—
(i) Except intrinsically safe atmospheric monitoring systems (AMS), electrically powered equipment in the affected area shall be deenergized, and other mechanized equipment shall be shut off;
(ii) Changes or adjustments shall be made at once to the ventilation system to reduce the concentration of methane to less than 1.0 percent; and
(iii) No other work shall be permitted in the affected area until the methane concentration is less than 1.0 percent.
(2) When 1.5 percent or more methane is present in a working place or an intake air course, including an air course in which a belt conveyor is located, or in an area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed—
(i) Everyone except those persons referred to in § 104(c) of the Act shall be withdrawn from the affected area; and
(ii) Except for intrinsically safe AMS, electrically powered equipment in the affected area shall be disconnected at the power source.
(c)
Return air split.
(1) When 1.0 percent or more methane is present in a return air split between the last working place on a working section and where that split of air meets another split of air, or the location at which the split is used to ventilate seals or worked-out areas changes or adjustments shall be made at once to the ventilation system to reduce the concentration of methane in the return air to less than 1.0 percent.
(2) When 1.5 percent or more methane is present in a return air split between the last working place on a working section and where that split of air meets another split of air, or the location where the split is used to ventilate seals or worked-out areas—
(i) Everyone except those persons referred to in § 104(c) of the Act shall be withdrawn from the affected area;
(ii) Other than intrinsically safe AMS, equipment in the affected area shall be deenergized, electric power shall be disconnected at the power source, and other mechanized equipment shall be shut off; and
(iii) No other work shall be permitted in the affected area until the methane concentration in the return air is less than 1.0 percent.
(d)
Return air split alternative.
(1) The provisions of this paragraph apply if—
(i) The quantity of air in the split ventilating the active workings is at least 27,000 cubic feet per minute in the last open crosscut or the quantity specified in the approved ventilation plan, whichever is greater;
(ii) The methane content of the air in the split is continuously monitored during mining operations by an AMS that gives a visual and audible signal on the working section when the methane in the return air reaches 1.5 percent, and the methane content is monitored as specified in § 75.351; and
(iii) Rock dust is continuously applied with a mechanical duster to the return air course during coal production at a location in the air course immediately outby the most inby monitoring point.
(2) When 1.5 percent or more methane is present in a return air split between a point in the return opposite the section loading point and where that split of air meets another split of air or where the split of air is used to ventilate seals or worked-out areas—
(i) Changes or adjustments shall be made at once to the ventilation system to reduce the concentration of methane in the return air below 1.5 percent;
(ii) Everyone except those persons referred to in § 104(c) of the Act shall be withdrawn from the affected area;
(iii) Except for intrinsically safe AMS, equipment in the affected area shall be deenergized, electric power shall be disconnected at the power
source, and other mechanized equipment shall be shut off; and
(iv) No other work shall be permitted in the affected area until the methane concentration in the return air is less than 1.5 percent.
(e)
Bleeders and other return air courses.
The concentration of methane in a bleeder split of air immediately before the air in the split joins another split of air, or in a return air course other than as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, shall not exceed 2.0 percent.
§ 75.324
Intentional changes in the ventilation system.
(a) A person designated by the operator shall supervise any intentional change in ventilation that—
(1) Alters the main air current or any split of the main air current in a manner that could materially affect the safety or health of persons in the mine; or
(2) Affects section ventilation by 9,000 cubic feet per minute of air or more in bituminous or lignite mines, or 5,000 cubic feet per minute of air or more in anthracite mines.
(b) Intentional changes shall be made only under the following conditions:
(1) Electric power shall be removed from areas affected by the ventilation change and mechanized equipment in those areas shall be shut off before the ventilation change begins.
(2) Only persons making the change in ventilation shall be in the mine.
(3) Electric power shall not be restored to the areas affected by the ventilation change and mechanized equipment shall not be restarted until a certified person has examined these areas for methane accumulation and for oxygen deficiency and has determined that the areas are safe.
§ 75.325
Air quantity.
(a)(1) In bituminous and lignite mines the quantity of air shall be at least 3,000 cubic feet per minute reaching each working face where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded. When a greater quantity is necessary to dilute, render harmless, and carry away flammable, explosive, noxious, and harmful gases, dusts, smoke, and fumes, this quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. A minimum air quantity may be required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan for other working places or working faces.
(2) The quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined at or near the face end of the line curtain, ventilation tubing, or other ventilation control device. If the curtain, tubing, or device extends beyond the last row of permanent roof supports, the quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined behind the line curtain or in the ventilation tubing at or near the last row of permanent supports. When machine-mounted dust collectors are used in conjunction with blowing face ventilation systems, the quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined with the dust collector turned off.
(3) If machine mounted dust collectors or diffuser fans are used, the approved ventilation plan shall specify the operating volume of the dust collector or diffuser fan.
(b) In bituminous and lignite mines, the quantity of air reaching the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms on each working section and the quantity of air reaching the intake end of a pillar line shall be at least 9,000 cubic feet per minute unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan. This minimum also applies to sections which are not operating but are capable of producing coal by simply energizing the equipment on the section.
(c) In longwall and shortwall mining systems—
(1) The quantity of air shall be at least 30,000 cubic feet per minute reaching the working face of each longwall, unless the operator demonstrates that a lesser air quantity will maintain continual compliance with applicable methane and respirable dust standards. This lesser quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. A quantity greater than 30,000 cubic feet per minute may be required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(2) The velocity of air that will be provided to control methane and respirable dust in accordance with applicable standards on each longwall or shortwall and the locations where
these velocities will be provided shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. The locations specified shall be at least 50 feet but no more than 100 feet from the headgate and tailgate, respectively.
(d) Ventilation shall be maintained during installation and removal of mechanized mining equipment. The approved ventilation plan shall specify the minimum quantity of air, the locations where this quantity will be provided and the ventilation controls required.
(e) In anthracite mines, the quantity of air shall be as follows:
(1) At least 1,500 cubic feet per minute reaching each working face where coal is being mined, unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(2) At least 5,000 cubic feet per minute passing through the last open crosscut in each set of entries or rooms and at the intake end of any pillar line, unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(3) When robbing areas where air currents cannot be controlled and air measurements cannot be obtained, the air shall have perceptible movement.
(f) The minimum ventilating air quantity for an individual unit of diesel-powered equipment being operated shall be at least that specified on the approval plate for that equipment. Such air quantity shall be maintained—
(1) In any working place where the equipment is being operated;
(2) At the section loading point during any shift the equipment is being operated on the working section;
(3) In any entry where the equipment is being operated outby the section loading point in areas of the mine developed on or after April 25, 1997;
(4) In any air course with single or multiple entries where the equipment is being operated outby the section loading point in areas of the mine developed prior to April 25, 1997; and
(5) At any other location required by the district manager and specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(g) The minimum ventilating air quantity where multiple units of diesel-powered equipment are operated on working sections and in areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed must be at least the sum of that specified on the approval plates of all the diesel-powered equipment on the working section or in the area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed. The minimum ventilating air quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. For working sections such air quantity must be maintained—
(1) In the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms in each working section;
(2) In the intake, reaching the working face of each longwall; and
(3) At the intake end of any pillar line.
(h) The following equipment may be excluded from the calculations of ventilating air quantity under paragraph (g) if such equipment exclusion is approved by the district manager and specified in the ventilation plan:
(1) Self-propelled equipment meeting the requirements of § 75.1908(b);
(2) Equipment that discharges its exhaust into intake air that is coursed directly to a return air course;
(3) Equipment that discharges its exhaust directly into a return air course; and
(4) Other equipment having duty cycles such that the emissions would not significantly affect the exposure of miners.
(i) A ventilating air quantity that is less than what is required by paragraph (g) of this section may be approved by the district manager in the ventilation plan based upon the results of sampling that demonstrate that the lesser air quantity will maintain continuous compliance with applicable TLV ®'s.
(j) If during sampling required by § 70.1900(c) of this subchapter the ventilating air is found to contain concentrations of CO or NO
2
in excess of the action level specified by § 70.1900(c), higher action levels may be approved by the district manager based on the results of sampling that demonstrate that a higher action level will maintain continuous compliance with applicable TLV ®'s. Action levels other than those specified in § 70.1900(c) shall be
specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(k) As of November 25, 1997 the ventilating air quantity required where diesel-powered equipment is operated shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (f) through (j) of this section. Mine operators utilizing diesel-powered equipment in underground coal mines shall submit to the appropriate MSHA district manager a revised ventilation plan or appropriate amendments to the existing plan, in accordance with § 75.371, which implement the requirements of paragraphs (f) through (j) of this section.
[61 FR 9828, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 26442, May 28, 1996; 61 FR 29288, June 10, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55526, Oct. 25, 1996; 62 FR 34641, June 27, 1997; 79 FR 24987, May 1, 2014]
§ 75.326
Mean entry air velocity.
In exhausting face ventilation systems, the mean entry air velocity shall be at least 60 feet per minute reaching each working face where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded, and to any other working places as required in the approved ventilation plan. A lower mean entry air velocity may be approved in the ventilation plan if the lower velocity will maintain methane and respirable dust concentrations in accordance with the applicable levels. Mean entry air velocity shall be determined at or near the inby end of the line curtain, ventilation tubing, or other face ventilation control devices.
[61 FR 9828, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 29288, June 10, 1996]
§ 75.327
Air courses and trolley haulage systems.
(a) In any mine opened on or after March 30, 1970, or in any new working section of a mine opened before that date, where trolley haulage systems are maintained and where trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are installed, an authorized representative of the Secretary shall require enough entries or rooms as intake air courses to limit the velocity of air currents in the haulageways to minimize the hazards of fires and dust explosions in the haulageways.
(b) Unless the district manager approves a higher velocity, the velocity of the air current in the trolley haulage entries shall be limited to not more than 250 feet per minute. A higher air velocity may be required to limit the methane content in these haulage entries or elsewhere in the mine to less than 1.0 percent and provide an adequate supply of oxygen.
§ 75.330
Face ventilation control devices.
(a) Brattice cloth, ventilation tubing and other face ventilation control devices shall be made of flame-resistant material approved by MSHA.
(b)(1) Ventilation control devices shall be used to provide ventilation to dilute, render harmless, and to carry away flammable, explosive, noxious, and harmful gases, dusts, smoke, and fumes—
(i) To each working face from which coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded; and
(ii) To any other working places as required by the approved ventilation plan.
(2) These devices shall be installed at a distance no greater than 10 feet from the area of deepest penetration to which any portion of the face has been advanced unless an alternative distance is specified and approved in the ventilation plan. Alternative distances specified shall be capable of maintaining concentrations of respirable dust, methane, and other harmful gases, in accordance with the levels specified in the applicable sections of this chapter.
(c) When the line brattice or any other face ventilation control device is damaged to an extent that ventilation of the working face is inadequate, production activities in the working place shall cease until necessary repairs are made and adequate ventilation is restored.
[61 FR 9828, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 29288, June 10, 1996]
§ 75.331
Auxiliary fans and tubing.
(a) When auxiliary fans and tubing are used for face ventilation, each auxiliary fan shall be—
(1) Permissible, if the fan is electrically operated;
(2) Maintained in proper operating condition;
(3) Deenergized or shut off when no one is present on the working section; and
(4) Located and operated to avoid recirculation of air.
(b) If a deficiency exists in any auxiliary fan system, the deficiency shall be corrected or the auxiliary fan shall be deenergized immediately.
(c) If the air passing through an auxiliary fan or tubing contains 1.0 percent or more methane, power to electrical equipment in the working place and to the auxiliary fan shall be deenergized, and other mechanized equipment in the working place shall be shut off until the methane concentration is reduced to less than 1.0 percent.
(d) When an auxiliary fan is stopped—
(1) Line brattice or other face ventilation control devices shall be used to maintain ventilation to affected faces; and
(2) Electrical equipment in the affected working places shall be disconnected at the power source, and other mechanized equipment shall be shut off until ventilation to the working place is restored.
§ 75.332
Working sections and working places.
(a)(1) Each working section and each area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, shall be ventilated by a separate split of intake air directed by overcasts, undercasts or other permanent ventilation controls.
(2) When two or more sets of mining equipment are simultaneously engaged in cutting, mining, or loading coal or rock from working places within the same working section, each set of mining equipment shall be on a separate split of intake air.
(3) For purposes of this section, a set of mining equipment includes a single loading machine, a single continuous mining machine, or a single longwall or shortwall mining machine.
(b)(1) Air that has passed through any area that is not examined under §§ 75.360, 75.361 or 75.364 of this subpart, or through an area where second mining has been done shall not be used to ventilate any working place. Second mining is intentional retreat mining where pillars have been wholly or partially removed, regardless of the amount of recovery obtained.
(2) Air that has passed by any opening of any unsealed area that is not examined under §§ 75.360, 75.361 or 75.364 of this subpart, shall not be used to ventilate any working place.
§ 75.333
Ventilation controls.
(a) For purposes of this section, “doors” include any door frames.
(b) Permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices constructed after November 15, 1992, shall be built and maintained—
(1) Between intake and return air courses, except temporary controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the room was developed including where continuous face haulage systems are used in such rooms. Unless otherwise approved in the ventilation plan, these stoppings or controls shall be maintained to and including the third connecting crosscut outby the working face;
(2) To separate belt conveyor haulageways from return air courses, except where belt entries in areas of mines developed before March 30, 1970, are used as return air courses;
(3) To separate belt conveyor haulageways from intake air courses when the air in the intake air courses is used to provide air to active working places. Temporary ventilation controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the rooms were developed including where continuous face haulage systems are used in such rooms. When continuous face haulage systems are used, permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices shall be built and maintained to the outby most point of travel of the dolly or 600 feet from the point of deepest penetration in the conveyor belt entry, whichever distance is closer to the point of deepest penetration, to separate the continuous haulage entry from the intake entries;
(4) To separate the primary escapeway from belt and trolley haulage entries, as required by § 75.380(g).
For the purposes of § 75.380(g), the loading point for a continuous haulage system shall be the outby most point of travel of the dolly or 600 feet from the point of deepest penetration, whichever distance is less; and
(5) In return air courses to direct air into adjacent worked-out areas.
(c) Personnel doors shall be constructed of noncombustible material and shall be of sufficient strength to serve their intended purpose of maintaining separation and permitting travel between air courses, and shall be installed as follows in permanent stoppings constructed after November 15, 1992:
(1) The distance between personnel doors shall be no more than 300 feet in seam heights below 48 inches and 600 feet in seam heights 48 inches or higher.
(2) The location of all personnel doors in stoppings along escapeways shall be clearly marked so that the doors may be easily identified by anyone traveling in the escapeway and in the entries on either side of the doors.
(3) When not in use, personnel doors shall be closed.
(4) An airlock shall be established where the air pressure differential between air courses creates a static force exceeding 125 pounds on closed personnel doors along escapeways.
(d) Doors, other than personnel doors, constructed after November 15, 1992, that are used in lieu of permanent stoppings or to control ventilation within an air course shall be:
(1) Made of noncombustible material or coated on all accessible surfaces with flame-retardant materials having a flame-spread index of 25 or less, as tested under ASTM E162-87, “Standard Test Method for Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.” This publication is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(2) Of sufficient strength to serve their intended purpose of maintaining separation and permitting travel between or within air courses or entries.
(3) Installed in pairs to form an airlock. When an airlock is used, one side of the airlock shall remain closed. When not in use, both sides shall be closed.
(e)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, all overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after June 10, 1996, shall be constructed in a traditionally accepted method and of materials that have been demonstrated to perform adequately or in a method and of materials that have been tested and shown to have a minimum strength equal to or greater than the traditionally accepted in-mine controls. Tests may be performed under ASTM E72-80, “Standard Methods of Conducting Strength Tests of Panels for Building Construction” (Section 12-Transverse Load-Specimen Vertical, load, only), or the operator may conduct comparative in-mine tests. In-mine tests shall be designed to demonstrate the comparative strength of the proposed construction and a traditionally accepted in-mine control. The publication ASTM E72-80, “Standard Methods of Conducting Strength Tests of Panels for Building Construction,” is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-
6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(ii) All overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Materials that are suitable for the construction of overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators include concrete, concrete block, brick, cinder block, tile, or steel. No ventilation controls installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of aluminum.
(2) In anthracite mines, permanent stoppings may be constructed of overlapping layers of hardwood mine boards, if the stoppings are a minimum 2 inches thick.
(3) When timbers are used to create permanent stoppings in heaving or caving areas, the stoppings shall be coated on all accessible surfaces with a flame-retardant material having a flame-spread index of 25 or less, as tested under ASTM E162-87, “Standard Test Method for Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.” This publication is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(4) In anthracite mines, doors and regulators may be constructed of overlapping layers of hardwood boards, if the doors, door frames, and regulators are a minimum 2 inches thick.
(f) When sealants are applied to ventilation controls, the sealant shall have a flame-spread index of 25 or less under ASTM E162-87, “Standard Test Method for Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.” This publication is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(g) Before mining is discontinued in an entry or room that is advanced more than 20 feet from the inby rib, a crosscut shall be made or line brattice shall be installed and maintained to provide adequate ventilation. When conditions such as methane liberation warrant a distance less than 20 feet, the approved ventilation plan shall specify the location of such rooms or entries and the maximum distance they will be developed before a crosscut is made or line brattice is installed.
(h) All ventilation controls, including seals, shall be maintained to serve the purpose for which they were built.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 20877, May 8, 1996; 61 FR 26442, May 28, 1996; 61 FR 29288, 29289, June 10, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 73 FR 80612, Dec. 31, 2008; 80 FR 52991, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.334
Worked-out areas and areas where pillars are being recovered.
(a) Worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered shall be—
(1) Ventilated so that methane-air mixtures and other gases, dusts, and fumes from throughout the worked-out areas are continuously diluted and routed into a return air course or to the surface of the mine; or
(2) Sealed.
(b)(1) During pillar recovery a bleeder system shall be used to control the air passing through the area and to continuously dilute and move methane-air mixtures and other gases, dusts, and fumes from the worked-out area away from active workings and into a return air course or to the surface of the mine.
(2) After pillar recovery a bleeder system shall be maintained to provide ventilation to the worked-out area, or the area shall be sealed.
(c) The approved ventilation plan shall specify the following:
(1) The design and use of bleeder systems;
(2) The means to determine the effectiveness of bleeder systems;
(3) The means for adequately maintaining bleeder entries free of obstructions such as roof falls and standing water; and
(4) The location of ventilating devices such as regulators, stoppings and bleeder connectors used to control air movement through the worked-out area.
(d) If the bleeder system used does not continuously dilute and move methane-air mixtures and other gases, dusts, and fumes away from worked-out areas into a return air course or to the surface of the mine, or it cannot be determined by examinations or evaluations under § 75.364 that the bleeder system is working effectively, the worked-out area shall be sealed.
(e) Each mining system shall be designed so that each worked-out area can be sealed. The approved ventilation plan shall specify the location and the sequence of construction of proposed seals.
(f) In place of the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, for mines with a demonstrated history of spontaneous combustion, or that are located in a coal seam determined to be susceptible to spontaneous combustion, the approved ventilation plan shall specify the following:
(1) Measures to detect methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen concentrations during and after pillar recovery, and in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered, to determine if the areas must be ventilated or sealed.
(2) Actions that will be taken to protect miners from the hazards of spontaneous combustion.
(3) If a bleeder system will not be used, the methods that will be used to control spontaneous combustion, accumulations of methane-air mixtures, and other gases, dusts, and fumes in the worked-out area.
§ 75.335
Seal strengths, design applications, and installation.
(a)
Seal strengths.
Seals constructed on or after October 20, 2008 shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to withstand—
(1)(i) At least 50-psi overpressure when the atmosphere in the sealed area is monitored and maintained inert and designed using a pressure-time curve with an instantaneous overpressure of at least 50 psi. A minimum overpressure of at least 50 psi shall be maintained for at least four seconds then released instantaneously.
(ii) Seals constructed to separate the active longwall panel from the longwall panel previously mined shall be designed using a pressure-time curve with a rate of pressure rise of at least 50 psi in 0.1 second. A minimum overpressure of at least 50 psi shall be maintained; or
(2)(i) Overpressures of at least 120 psi if the atmosphere in the sealed area is not monitored, is not maintained inert, the conditions in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section are not
present, and the seal is designed using a pressure-time curve with an instantaneous overpressure of at least 120 psi. A minimum overpressure of 120 psi shall be maintained for at least four seconds then released instantaneously.
(ii) Seals constructed to separate the active longwall panel from the longwall panel previously mined shall be designed using a pressure-time curve with a rate of pressure rise of 120 psi in 0.25 second. A minimum overpressure of 120 psi shall be maintained; or
(3) Overpressures greater than 120 psi if the atmosphere in the sealed area is not monitored and is not maintained inert, and
(i) The atmosphere in the sealed area is likely to contain homogeneous mixtures of methane between 4.5 percent and 17.0 percent and oxygen exceeding 17.0 percent throughout the entire area;
(ii) Pressure piling could result in overpressures greater than 120 psi in the area to be sealed; or
(iii) Other conditions are encountered, such as the likelihood of a detonation in the area to be sealed.
(iv) Where the conditions in paragraphs (a)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section are encountered, the mine operator shall revise the ventilation plan to address the potential hazards. The plan shall include seal strengths sufficient to address such conditions.
(b)
Seal design applications.
Seal design applications from seal manufacturers or mine operators shall be in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section and submitted for approval to MSHA's Office of Technical Support, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 151, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611.
(1) An engineering design application shall—
(i) Address gas sampling pipes, water drainage systems, methods to reduce air leakage, pressure-time curve, fire resistance characteristics, flame spread index, entry size, engineering design and analysis, elasticity of design, material properties, construction specifications, quality control, design references, and other information related to seal construction;
(ii) Be certified by a professional engineer that the design of the seal is in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices and is applicable to conditions in an underground coal mine; and
(iii) Include a summary of the installation procedures related to seal construction; or
(2) Each application based on full-scale explosion tests or equivalent means of physical testing shall address the following requirements to ensure that a seal can reliably meet the seal strength requirements:
(i) Certification by a professional engineer that the testing was done in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices for construction in a coal mine;
(ii) Technical information related to the methods and materials;
(iii) Supporting documentation;
(iv) An engineering analysis to address differences between the seal support during test conditions and the range of conditions in a coal mine; and
(v) A summary of the installation procedures related to seal construction.
(3) MSHA will notify the applicant if additional information or testing is required. The applicant shall provide this information, arrange any additional or repeat tests, and provide prior notification to MSHA of the location, date, and time of such test(s).
(4) MSHA will notify the applicant, in writing, whether the design is approved or denied. If the design is denied, MSHA will specify, in writing, the deficiencies of the application, or necessary revisions.
(5) Once the seal design is approved, the approval holder shall promptly notify MSHA, in writing, of all deficiencies of which they become aware.
(c)
Seal installation approval.
The installation of the approved seal design shall be subject to approval in the ventilation plan. The mine operator shall—
(1) Retain the seal design approval and installation information for as long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it was built.
(2) Designate a professional engineer to conduct or have oversight of seal installation and certify that the provisions in the approved seal design specified in this section have been addressed
and are applicable to conditions at the mine. A copy of the certification shall be submitted to the District Manager with the information provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and a copy of the certification shall be retained for as long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it was built.
(3) Provide the following information for approval in the ventilation plan—
(i) The MSHA Technical Support Approval Number;
(ii) A summary of the installation procedures;
(iii) The mine map of the area to be sealed and proposed seal locations that include the deepest points of penetration prior to sealing. The mine map shall be certified by a professional engineer or a professional land surveyor.
(iv) Specific mine site information, including—
(A) Type of seal;
(B) Safety precautions taken prior to seal achieving design strength;
(C) Methods to address site-specific conditions that may affect the strength and applicability of the seal including set-back distances;
(D) Site preparation;
(E) Sequence of seal installations;
(F) Projected date of completion of each set of seals;
(G) Supplemental roof support inby and outby each seal;
(H) Water flow estimation and dimensions of the water drainage system through the seals;
(I) Methods to ventilate the outby face of seals once completed;
(J) Methods and materials used to maintain each type of seal;
(K) Methods to address shafts and boreholes in the sealed area;
(L) Assessment of potential for overpressures greater than 120 psi in sealed area;
(M) Additional sampling locations; and
(N) Additional information required by the District Manager.
[73 FR 21206, Apr. 18, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 52982, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.336
Sampling and monitoring requirements.
(a) A certified person as defined in § 75.100 shall monitor atmospheres of sealed areas. Sealed areas shall be monitored, whether ingassing or outgassing, for methane and oxygen concentrations and the direction of leakage.
(1) Each sampling pipe and approved sampling location shall be sampled at least every 24 hours.
(i) Atmospheres with seals of 120 psi or greater shall be sampled until the design strength is reached for every seal used to seal the area.
(ii) Atmospheres with seals less than 120 psi constructed before October 20, 2008 shall be monitored for methane and oxygen concentrations and maintained inert. The operator may request that the District Manager approve different sampling locations and frequencies in the ventilation plan, provided at least one sample is taken at each set of seals at least every 7 days.
(iii) Atmospheres with seals less than 120 psi constructed after October 20, 2008 shall be monitored for methane and oxygen concentrations and maintained inert. The operator may request that the District Manager approve different sampling locations and frequencies in the ventilation plan after a minimum of 14 days and after the seal design strength is reached, provided at least one sample is taken at each set of seals at least every 7 days.
(2) The mine operator shall evaluate the atmosphere in the sealed area to determine whether sampling through the sampling pipes in seals and approved locations provides appropriate sampling locations of the sealed area. The mine operator shall make the evaluation immediately after the minimum 14-day required sampling, if the mine ventilation system is reconfigured, if changes occur that adversely affect the sealed area, or if the District Manager requests an evaluation. When the results of the evaluations indicate the need for additional sampling locations, the mine operator shall provide the additional locations and have them approved in the ventilation plan. The District Manager may require additional sampling locations and frequencies in the ventilation plan.
(3) Mine operators with an approved ventilation plan addressing spontaneous combustion pursuant to § 75.334(f)
shall sample the sealed atmosphere in accordance with the ventilation plan.
(4) The District Manager may approve in the ventilation plan the use of a continuous monitoring system in lieu of monitoring provisions in this section.
(b)(1) Except as provided in § 75.336(d), the atmosphere in the sealed area is considered inert when the oxygen concentration is less than 10.0 percent or the methane concentration is less than 3.0 percent or greater than 20.0 percent.
(2) Immediate action shall be taken by the mine operator to restore an inert sealed atmosphere behind seals with strengths less than 120 psi. Until the atmosphere in the sealed area is restored to an inert condition, the sealed atmosphere shall be monitored at each sampling pipe and approved location at least once every 24 hours.
(c) Except as provided in § 75.336(d), when a sample is taken from the sealed atmosphere with seals of less than 120 psi and the sample indicates that the oxygen concentration is 10 percent or greater and methane is between 4.5 percent and 17 percent, the mine operator shall immediately take an additional sample and then immediately notify the District Manager. When the additional sample indicates that the oxygen concentration is 10 percent or greater and methane is between 4.5 percent and 17 percent, persons shall be withdrawn from the affected area which is the entire mine or other affected area identified by the operator and approved by the District Manager in the ventilation plan, except those persons referred to in § 104(c) of the Act. The operator may identify areas in the ventilation plan to be approved by the District Manager where persons may be exempted from withdrawal. The operator's request shall address the location of seals in relation to: Areas where persons work and travel in the mine; escapeways and potential for damage to the escapeways; and ventilation systems and controls in areas where persons work or travel and where ventilation is used for escapeways. The operator's request shall also address the gas concentration of other sampling locations in the sealed area and other required information. Before miners reenter the mine, the mine operator shall have a ventilation plan revision approved by the District Manager specifying the actions to be taken.
(d) In sealed areas with a demonstrated history of carbon dioxide or sealed areas where inert gases have been injected, the operator may request that the District Manager approve in the ventilation plan an alternative method to determine if the sealed atmosphere is inert and when miners have to be withdrawn. The mine operator shall address in the ventilation plan the specific levels of methane, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and oxygen; the sampling methods and equipment used; and the methods to evaluate these concentrations underground at the seal.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
(1) The certified person shall promptly record each sampling result including the location of the sampling points, whether ingassing or outgassing, and oxygen and methane concentrations. The results of oxygen and methane samples shall be recorded as the percentage of oxygen and methane measured by the certified person and any hazardous condition found in accordance with § 75.363.
(2) The mine operator shall retain sampling records at the mine for at least one year from the date of the sampling.
[73 FR 21207, Apr. 18, 2008; 73 FR 27730, May 14, 2008]
§ 75.337
Construction and repair of seals.
(a) The mine operator shall maintain and repair seals to protect miners from hazards of sealed areas.
(b) Prior to sealing, the mine operator shall—
(1) Remove insulated cables, batteries, and other potential electric ignition sources from the area to be sealed when constructing seals, unless it is not safe to do so. If ignition sources cannot safely be removed, seals must be constructed to at least 120 psi;
(2) Remove metallic objects through or across seals; and
(3) Breach or remove all stoppings in the first crosscut inby the seals immediately prior to sealing the area.
(c) A certified person designated by the mine operator shall directly supervise seal construction and repair and—
(1) Examine each seal site immediately prior to construction or repair to ensure that the site is in accordance with the approved ventilation plan;
(2) Examine each seal under construction or repair during each shift to ensure that the seal is being constructed or repaired in accordance with the approved ventilation plan;
(3) Examine each seal upon completion of construction or repair to ensure that construction or repair is in accordance with the approved ventilation plan;
(4) Certify by initials, date, and time that the examinations were made; and
(5) Make a record of the examination at the completion of any shift during which an examination was conducted. The record shall include each deficiency and the corrective action taken. The record shall be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be kept at the mine for one year.
(d) Upon completion of construction of each seal a senior mine management official, such as a mine manager or superintendent, shall certify that the construction, installation, and materials used were in accordance with the approved ventilation plan. The mine operator shall retain the certification for as long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it was built.
(e) The mine operator shall—
(1) Notify the District Manager between two and fourteen days prior to commencement of seal construction;
(2) Notify the District Manager, in writing, within five days of completion of a set of seals and provide a copy of the certification required in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(3) Submit a copy of quality control results to the District Manager for seal material properties specified by § 75.335 within 30 days of completion of quality control tests.
(f)
Welding, cutting, and soldering.
Welding, cutting, and soldering with an arc or flame are prohibited within 150 feet of a seal. An operator may request a different location in the ventilation plan to be approved by the District Manager. The operator's request must address methods the mine operator will use to continuously monitor atmospheric conditions in the sealed area during welding or burning; the airflow conditions in and around the work area; the rock dust and water application methods; the availability of fire extinguishers on hand; the procedures to maintain safe conditions, and other relevant factors.
(g)
Sampling pipes.
(1) For seals constructed after April 18, 2008, one non-metallic sampling pipe shall be installed in each seal that shall extend into the center of the first connecting crosscut inby the seal. If an open crosscut does not exist, the sampling pipe shall extend one-half of the distance of the open entry inby the seal.
(2) Each sampling pipe shall be equipped with a shut-off valve and appropriate fittings for taking gas samples.
(3) The sampling pipes shall be labeled to indicate the location of the sampling point when more than one sampling pipe is installed through a seal.
(4) If a new seal is constructed to replace or reinforce an existing seal with a sampling pipe, the sampling pipe in the existing seal shall extend through the new seal. An additional sampling pipe shall be installed through each new seal to sample the area between seals, as specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(h)
Water drainage system.
For each set of seals constructed after April 18, 2008, the seal at the lowest elevation shall have a corrosion-resistant, non-metallic water drainage system. Seals shall not impound water or slurry. Water or slurry shall not accumulate within the sealed area to any depth that can adversely affect a seal.
[73 FR 21207, Apr. 18, 2008]
§ 75.338
Training.
(a) Certified persons conducting sampling shall be trained in the use of appropriate sampling equipment, procedures, location of sampling points, frequency of sampling, size and condition
of the sealed area, and the use of continuous monitoring systems if applicable before they conduct sampling, and annually thereafter. The mine operator shall certify the date of training provided to certified persons and retain each certification for two years.
(b) Miners constructing or repairing seals, designated certified persons, and senior mine management officials shall be trained prior to constructing or repairing a seal and annually thereafter. The training shall address materials and procedures in the approved seal design and ventilation plan. The mine operator shall certify the date of training provided each miner, certified person, and senior mine management official and retain each certification for two years.
[73 FR 21208, Apr. 18, 2008]
§ 75.339
Seals records.
(a) The table entitled “Seal Recordkeeping Requirements” lists records the operator shall maintain and the retention period for each record.
Table—§ 75.339(
a
) Seal Recordkeeping Requirements
Record
Section reference
Retention time
(1) Approved seal design
75.335(c)(1)
As long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it is built.
(2) Certification of Provisions of Approved Seal Design is Addressed
75.335(c)(2)
As long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it is built.
(3) Gas sampling records
75.336(e)(2)
1 year.
(4) Record of examinations
75.337(c)(5)
1 year.
(5) Certification of seal construction, installation, and materials
75.337(d)
As long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it is built.
(6) Certification of Training for Persons that Sample
75.338(a)
2 years.
(7) Certification of Training for Persons that Perform Seal Construction and Repair
75.338(b)
2 years.
(b) Records required by §§ 75.335, 75.336, 75.337 and 75.338 shall be retained at a surface location at the mine in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration. The records may be retained electronically in a computer system that is secure and not susceptible to alteration, if the mine operator can immediately access the record from the mine site.
(c) Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or from the authorized representative of miners, mine operators shall promptly provide access to any record listed in the table in this section.
(d) Whenever an operator ceases to do business or transfers control of the mine to another entity, that operator shall transfer all records required to be maintained by this part, or a copy thereof, to any successor operator who shall maintain them for the required period.
[73 FR 21208, Apr. 18, 2008]
§ 75.340
Underground electrical installations.
(a) Underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, rectifiers, and water pumps shall be housed in noncombustible structures or areas or be equipped with a fire suppression system meeting the requirements of § 75.1107-3 through § 75.1107-16.
(1) When a noncombustible structure or area is used, these installations shall be—
(i) Ventilated with intake air that is coursed into a return air course or to the surface and that is not used to ventilate working places; or
(ii) Ventilated with intake air that is monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke by an AMS installed and operated according to § 75.351. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen; or
(iii) Ventilated with intake air and equipped with sensors to monitor for heat and for carbon monoxide or smoke. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall
be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen. The sensors shall deenergize power to the installation, activate a visual and audible alarm located outside of and on the intake side of the enclosure, and activate doors that will automatically close when either of the following occurs:
(A) The temperature in the noncombustible structure reaches 165 °F; or
(B) The carbon monoxide concentration reaches 10 parts per million above the ambient level for the area, or the optical density of smoke reaches 0.022 per meter. At least every 31 days, sensors installed to monitor for carbon monoxide shall be calibrated with a known concentration of carbon monoxide and air sufficient to activate the closing door, or each smoke sensor shall be tested to determine that it functions correctly.
(2) When a fire suppression system is used, these installations shall be—
(i) Ventilated with intake air that is coursed into a return air course or to the surface and that is not used to ventilate working places; or
(ii) Ventilated with intake air that is monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke by an AMS installed and operated according to § 75.351. Monitoring of intake air ventilating battery charging stations shall be done with sensors not affected by hydrogen.
(b) This section does not apply to—
(1) Rectifiers and power centers with transformers that are either dry-type or contain nonflammable liquid, if they are located at or near the section and are moved as the working section advances or retreats;
(2) Submersible pumps;
(3) Permissible pumps and associated permissible switchgear;
(4) Pumps located on or near the section and that are moved as the working section advances or retreats;
(5) Pumps installed in anthracite mines; and
(6) Small portable pumps.
§ 75.341
Direct-fired intake air heaters.
(a) If any system used to heat intake air malfunctions, the heaters affected shall switch off automatically.
(b) Thermal overload devices shall protect the blower motor from overheating.
(c) The fuel supply shall turn off automatically if a flame-out occurs.
(d) Each heater shall be located or guarded to prevent contact by persons and shall be equipped with a screen at the inlet to prevent combustible materials from passing over the burner units.
(e) If intake air heaters use liquefied fuel systems—
(1) Hydrostatic relief valves installed on vaporizers and on storage tanks shall be vented; and
(2) Fuel storage tanks shall be located or protected to prevent fuel from leaking into the mine.
(f) Following any period of 8 hours or more during which a heater does not operate, the heater and its associated components shall be examined within its first hour of operation. Additionally, each heater and its components shall be examined at least once each shift that the heater operates. The examination shall include measurement of the carbon monoxide concentration at the bottom of each shaft, slope, or in the drift opening where air is being heated. The measurements shall be taken by a person designated by the operator or by a carbon monoxide sensor that is calibrated with a known concentration of carbon monoxide and air at least once every 31 days. When the carbon monoxide concentration at this location reaches 50 parts per million, the heater causing the elevated carbon monoxide level shall be shut down.
§ 75.342
Methane monitors.
(a)(1) MSHA approved methane monitors shall be installed on all face cutting machines, continuous miners, longwall face equipment, loading machines, and other mechanized equipment used to extract or load coal within the working place.
(2) The sensing device for methane monitors on longwall shearing machines shall be installed at the return air end of the longwall face. An additional sensing device also shall be installed on the longwall shearing machine, downwind and as close to the
cutting head as practicable. An alternative location or locations for the sensing device required on the longwall shearing machine may be approved in the ventilation plan.
(3) The sensing devices of methane monitors shall be installed as close to the working face as practicable.
(4) Methane monitors shall be maintained in permissible and proper operating condition and shall be calibrated with a known air-methane mixture at least once every 31 days. To assure that methane monitors are properly maintained and calibrated, the operator shall:
(i) Use persons properly trained in the maintenance, calibration, and permissibility of methane monitors to calibrate and maintain the devices.
(ii) Maintain a record of all calibration tests of methane monitors. Records shall be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(iii) Retain the record of calibration tests for 1 year from the date of the test. Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine and made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(b)(1) When the methane concentration at any methane monitor reaches 1.0 percent the monitor shall give a warning signal.
(2) The warning signal device of the methane monitor shall be visible to a person who can deenergize electric equipment or shut down diesel-powered equipment on which the monitor is mounted.
(c) The methane monitor shall automatically deenergize electric equipment or shut down diesel-powered equipment on which it is mounted when—
(1) The methane concentration at any methane monitor reaches 2.0 percent; or
(2) The monitor is not operating properly.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996]
§ 75.343
Underground shops.
(a) Underground shops shall be equipped with an automatic fire suppression system meeting the requirements of § 75.1107-3 through § 75.1107-16, or be enclosed in a noncombustible structure or area.
(b) Underground shops shall be ventilated with intake air that is coursed directly into a return air course.
§ 75.344
Compressors.
(a) Except compressors that are components of equipment such as locomotives and rock dusting machines and compressors of less than 5 horsepower, electrical compressors including those that may start automatically shall be:
(1) Continuously attended by a person designated by the operator who can see the compressor at all times during its operation. Any designated person attending the compressor shall be capable of activating the fire suppression system and deenergizing or shutting-off the compressor in the event of a fire; or,
(2) Enclosed in a noncombustible structure or area which is ventilated by intake air coursed directly into a return air course or to the surface and equipped with sensors to monitor for heat and for carbon monoxide or smoke. The sensors shall deenergize power to the compressor, activate a visual and audible alarm located outside of and on the intake side of the enclosure, and activate doors to automatically enclose the noncombustible structure or area when either of the following occurs:
(i) The temperature in the noncombustible structure or area reaches 165 °F.
(ii) The carbon monoxide concentration reaches 10 parts per million above the ambient level for the area, or the optical density of smoke reaches 0.022 per meter. At least once every 31 days, sensors installed to monitor for carbon monoxide shall be calibrated with a known concentration of carbon monoxide and air sufficient to activate the closing door, and each smoke sensor shall be tested to determine that it functions correctly.
(b) Compressors, except those exempted in paragraph (a), shall be
equipped with a heat activated fire suppression system meeting the requirements of 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16.
(c) Two portable fire extinguishers or one extinguisher having at least twice the minimum capacity specified for a portable fire extinguisher in § 75.1100-1(e) shall be provided for each compressor.
(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of § 75.1107-4, upon activation of any fire suppression system used under paragraph (b) of this section, the compressor shall be automatically deenergized or automatically shut off.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996]
§ 75.350
Belt air course ventilation.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) The belt air course must not be used as a return air course; and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the belt air course must not be used to provide air to working sections or to areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed.
(1) The belt air course must be separated with permanent ventilation controls from return air courses and from other intake air courses except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Effective December 31, 2009, the air velocity in the belt entry must be at least 50 feet per minute. When requested by the mine operator, the district manager may approve lower velocities in the ventilation plan based on specific mine conditions. Air velocities must be compatible with all fire detection systems and fire suppression systems used in the belt entry.
(b) The use of air from a belt air course to ventilate a working section, or an area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, shall be permitted only when evaluated and approved by the district manager in the mine ventilation plan. The mine operator must provide justification in the plan that the use of air from a belt entry would afford at least the same measure of protection as where belt haulage entries are not used to ventilate working places. In addition, the following requirements must be met:
(1) The belt entry must be equipped with an AMS that is installed, operated, examined, and maintained as specified in § 75.351.
(2) All miners must be trained annually in the basic operating principles of the AMS, including the actions required in the event of activation of any AMS alert or alarm signal. This training must be conducted prior to working underground in a mine that uses belt air to ventilate working sections or areas where mechanized mining equipment is installed or removed. It must be conducted as part of a miner's 30 CFR part 48 new miner training (§ 48.5), experienced miner training (§ 48.6), or annual refresher training (§ 48.8).
(3)(i) The average concentration of respirable dust in the belt air course, when used as a section intake air course, shall be maintained at or below 0.5 milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
).
(ii) A permanent designated area (DA) for dust measurements must be established at a point no greater than 50 feet upwind from the section loading point in the belt entry when the belt air flows over the loading point or no greater than 50 feet upwind from the point where belt air is mixed with air from another intake air course near the loading point. The DA must be specified and approved in the ventilation plan.
(4) The primary escapeway must be monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke as specified in § 75.351(f).
(5) The area of the mine with a belt air course must be developed with three or more entries.
(6) In areas of the mine developed after the effective date of this rule, unless approved by the district manager, no more than 50% of the total intake air, delivered to the working section or to areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, can be supplied from the belt air course. The locations for measuring these air quantities must be approved in the mine ventilation plan.
(7) The air velocity in the belt entry must be at least 100 feet per minute. When requested by the mine operator, the district manager may approve lower velocities in the ventilation plan based on specific mine conditions.
(8) The air velocity in the belt entry must not exceed 1,000 feet per minute. When requested by the mine operator, the district manager may approve higher velocities in the ventilation plan based on specific mine conditions.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 75.380(g), additional intake air may be added to the belt air course through a point-feed regulator. The location and use of point feeds must be approved in the mine ventilation plan.
(d) If the air through the point-feed regulator enters a belt air course which is used to ventilate a working section or an area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, the following conditions must be met:
(1) The air current that will pass through the point-feed regulator must be monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke at a point within 50 feet upwind of the point-feed regulator. A second point must be monitored 1,000 feet upwind of the point-feed regulator unless the mine operator requests that a lesser distance be approved by the district manager in the mine ventilation plan based on mine specific conditions;
(2) The air in the belt air course must be monitored for carbon monoxide or smoke upwind of the point-feed regulator. This sensor must be in the belt air course within 50 feet of the mixing point where air flowing through the point-feed regulator mixes with the belt air;
(3) The point-feed regulator must be provided with a means to close the regulator from the intake air course without requiring a person to enter the crosscut where the point-feed regulator is located. The point-feed regulator must also be provided with a means to close the regulator from a location in the belt air course immediately upwind of the crosscut containing the point-feed regulator;
(4) A minimum air velocity of 300 feet per minute must be maintained through the point-feed regulator;
(5) The location(s) and use of a point-feed regulator(s) must be approved in the mine ventilation plan and shown on the mine ventilation map; and
(6) An AMS must be installed, operated, examined, and maintained as specified in § 75.351.
[89 FR 28479, 28480, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 75.351
Atmospheric monitoring systems.
(a)
AMS operation.
Whenever personnel are underground and an AMS is used to fulfill the requirements of §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), 75.350(d), or 75.362(f), the AMS must be operating and a designated AMS operator must be on duty at a location on the surface of the mine where audible and visual signals from the AMS must be seen or heard and the AMS operator can promptly respond to these signals.
(b)
Designated surface location and AMS operator.
When an AMS is used to comply with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), 75.350(d), or 75.362(f), the following requirements apply:
(1) The mine operator must designate a surface location at the mine where signals from the AMS will be received and two-way voice communication is maintained with each working section, with areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, and with other areas designated in the approved emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction (§ 75.1502).
(2) The mine operator must designate an AMS operator to monitor and promptly respond to all AMS signals. The AMS operator must have as a primary duty the responsibility to monitor the malfunction, alert and alarm signals of the AMS, and to notify appropriate personnel of these signals. In the event of an emergency, the sole responsibility of the AMS operator shall be to respond to the emergency.
(3) A map or schematic must be provided at the designated surface location that shows the locations and type of AMS sensor at each location, and the intended air flow direction at these locations. This map or schematic must be updated within 24 hours of any change in this information.
(4) The names of the designated AMS operators and other appropriate personnel, including the designated person responsible for initiating an emergency
mine evacuation under § 75.1501, and the method to contact these persons, must be provided at the designated surface location.
(c)
Minimum operating requirements.
AMSs used to comply with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), 75.350(d), or 75.362(f) must:
(1) Automatically provide visual and audible signals at the designated surface location for any interruption of circuit continuity and any electrical malfunction of the system. These signals must be of sufficient magnitude to be seen or heard by the AMS operator.
(2) Automatically provide visual and audible signals at the designated surface location when the carbon monoxide concentration or methane concentration at any sensor reaches the alert level as specified in § 75.351(i). These signals must be of sufficient magnitude to be seen or heard by the AMS operator.
(3) Automatically provide visual and audible signals at the designated surface location distinguishable from alert signals when the carbon monoxide, smoke, or methane concentration at any sensor reaches the alarm level as specified in § 75.351(i). These signals must be of sufficient magnitude to be seen or heard by the AMS operator.
(4) Automatically provide visual and audible signals at all affected working sections and at all affected areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed when the carbon monoxide, smoke, or methane concentration at any sensor reaches the alarm level as specified in § 75.351(i). These signals must be of sufficient magnitude to be seen or heard by miners working at these locations. Methane signals must be distinguishable from other signals.
(5) Automatically provide visual and audible signals at other locations as specified in Mine Emergency Evacuation and Firefighting Program of Instruction (§ 75.1502) when the carbon monoxide, smoke, or methane concentration at any sensor reaches the alarm level as specified in § 75.351(i). These signals must be seen or heard by miners working at these locations. Methane alarms must be distinguishable from other signals.
(6) Identify at the designated surface location the operational status of all sensors.
(7) Automatically provide visual and audible alarm signals at the designated surface location, at all affected working sections, and at all affected areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed when the carbon monoxide level at any two consecutive sensors alert at the same time. These signals must be seen or heard by the AMS operator and miners working at these locations.
(d)
Location and installation of AMS sensors.
(1) All AMS sensors, as specified in §§ 75.351(e) through 75.351(h), must be located such that measurements are representative of the mine atmosphere in these locations.
(2) Carbon monoxide or smoke sensors must be installed near the center in the upper third of the entry, in a location that does not expose personnel working on the system to unsafe conditions. Sensors must not be located in abnormally high areas or in other locations where air flow patterns do not permit products of combustion to be carried to the sensors.
(3) Methane sensors must be installed near the center of the entry, at least 12 inches from the roof, ribs, and floor, in a location that would not expose personnel working on the system to unsafe conditions.
(e)
Location of sensors-belt air course.
(1) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, any AMS used to monitor belt air courses under § 75.350(b) must have approved sensors to monitor for carbon monoxide at the following locations:
(i) At or near the working section belt tailpiece in the air stream ventilating the belt entry. In longwall mining systems the sensor must be located upwind in the belt entry at a distance no greater than 150 feet from the mixing point where intake air is mixed with the belt air at or near the tailpiece;
(ii) No more than 50 feet upwind from the point where the belt air course is combined with another air course or splits into multiple air courses;
(iii) At intervals not to exceed 1,000 feet along each belt entry. However, in areas along each belt entry where air velocities are between 50 and 100 feet per minute, spacing of sensors must not exceed 500 feet. In areas along each belt entry where air velocities are less than 50 feet per minute, the sensor spacing must not exceed 350 feet;
(iv) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece, transfer point, and each belt take-up. If the belt drive, tailpiece, and/or take-up for a single transfer point are installed together in the same air course, and the distance between the units is less than 100 feet, they may be monitored with one sensor downwind of the last component. If the distance between the units exceeds 100 feet, additional sensors are required downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece, transfer point, and each belt take-up; and
(v) At other locations in any entry that is part of the belt air course as required and specified in the mine ventilation plan.
(2) Smoke sensors must be installed to monitor the belt entry under § 75.350(b) at the following locations:
(i) At or near the working section belt tailpiece in the air stream ventilating the belt entry. In longwall mining systems the sensor must be located upwind in the belt entry at a distance no greater than 150 feet from the mixing point where intake air is mixed with the belt air at or near the tailpiece;
(ii) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece transfer point, and each belt take-up. If the belt drive, tailpiece, and/or take-up for a single transfer point are installed together in the same air course, and the distance between the units is less than 100 feet, they may be monitored with one sensor downwind of the last component. If the distance between the units exceeds 100 feet, additional sensors are required downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece, transfer point, and each belt take-up; and
(iii) At intervals not to exceed 3,000 feet along each belt entry.
(iv) This provision shall be effective one year after the Secretary has determined that a smoke sensor is available to reliably detect fire in underground coal mines.
(f)
Locations of sensors—the primary escapeway.
When used to monitor the primary escapeway under § 75.350(b)(4), carbon monoxide or smoke sensors must be located in the primary escapeway within 500 feet of the working section and areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed. In addition, another sensor must be located within 500 feet inby the beginning of the panel. The point-feed sensor required by § 75.350(d)(1) may be used as the sensor at the beginning of the panel if it is located within 500 feet inby the beginning of the panel.
(g)
Location of sensors—return air splits.
(1) If used to monitor return air splits under § 75.362(f), a methane sensor must be installed in the return air split between the last working place, longwall or shortwall face ventilated by that air split, and the junction of the return air split with another air split, seal, or worked out area.
(2) If used to monitor a return air split under § 75.323(d)(1)(ii), the methane sensors must be installed at the following locations:
(i) In the return air course opposite the section loading point, or, if exhausting auxiliary fan(s) are used, in the return air course no closer than 300 feet downwind from the fan exhaust and at a point opposite or immediately outby the section loading point; and
(ii) Immediately upwind from the location where the return air split meets another air split or immediately upwind of the location where an air split is used to ventilate seals or worked-out areas.
(h)
Location of sensors—electrical installations.
When monitoring the intake air ventilating underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, rectifiers, or water pumps under § 75.340(a)(1)(ii) or § 75.340(a)(2)(ii), at least one sensor must be installed to monitor the mine atmosphere for carbon monoxide or smoke, located downwind and not greater than 50 feet from the electrical installation being monitored.
(i)
Establishing alert and alarm levels.
An AMS installed in accordance with the following paragraphs must initiate
alert and alarm signals at the specified levels, as indicated:
(1) For § 75.323(d)(1)(ii) alarm at 1.5% methane.
(2) For §§ 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), and 75.350(d), alert at 5 ppm carbon monoxide above the ambient level and alarm at 10 ppm carbon monoxide above the ambient level when carbon monoxide sensors are used; and alarm at a smoke optical density of 0.022 per meter when smoke sensors are used. Reduced alert and alarm settings approved by the district manager may be required for carbon monoxide sensors identified in the mine ventilation plan, § 75.371(nn).
(3) For § 75.362(f), alert at 1.0% methane and alarm at 1.5% methane.
(j)
Establishing carbon monoxide ambient levels.
Carbon monoxide ambient levels and the means to determine these levels must be approved in the mine ventilation plan (§ 75.371(hh)) for monitors installed in accordance with §§ 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), and 75.350(d).
(k)
Installation and maintenance.
An AMS installed in accordance with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), 75.350(d), or 75.362(f) must be installed and maintained by personnel trained in the installation and maintenance of the system. The system must be maintained in proper operating condition.
(l)
Sensors.
Sensors used to monitor for carbon monoxide, methane, and smoke must be either of a type listed and installed in accordance with the recommendations of a nationally recognized testing laboratory approved by the Secretary; or these sensors must be of a type, and installed in a manner, approved by the Secretary.
(m)
Time delays.
When a demonstrated need exists, time delays may be incorporated into the AMS. These time delays must only be used to account for non-fire related carbon monoxide alert and alarm sensor signals. These time delays are limited to no more than three minutes. The use and length of any time delays, or other techniques or methods which eliminate or reduce the need for time delays, must be specified and approved in the mine ventilation plan.
(n)
Examination, testing, and calibration.
(1) At least once each shift when belts are operated as part of a production shift, sensors used to detect carbon monoxide or smoke in accordance with §§ 75.350(b), and 75.350(d), and alarms installed in accordance with § 75.350(b) must be visually examined.
(2) At least once every seven days, alarms for AMS installed in accordance with §§ 75.350(b), and 75.350(d) must be functionally tested for proper operation.
(3) At intervals not to exceed 31 days—
(i) Each carbon monoxide sensor installed in accordance with §§ 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), or 75.350(d) must be calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's calibration specifications. Calibration must be done with a known concentration of carbon monoxide in air sufficient to activate the alarm;
(ii) Each smoke sensor installed in accordance with §§ 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), or 75.350(d) must be functionally tested in accordance with the manufacturer's calibration specifications;
(iii) Each methane sensor installed in accordance with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii) or 75.362(f) must be calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's calibration specifications. Calibration must be done with a known concentration of methane in air sufficient to activate an alarm.
(iv) If the alert or alarm signals will be activated during calibration of sensors, the AMS operator must be notified prior to and upon completion of calibration. The AMS operator must notify miners on affected working sections, areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, or other areas designated in the approved emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction (§ 75.1502) when calibration will activate alarms and when calibration is completed.
(4) Gases used for the testing and calibration of AMS sensors must be traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology reference standard for the specific gas. When these reference standards are not available for a specific gas, calibration
gases must be traceable to an analytical standard which is prepared using a method traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Calibration gases must be within ±2.0 percent of the indicated gas concentration.
(o)
Recordkeeping.
(1) When an AMS is used to comply with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), 75.350(d), or 75.362(f), individuals designated by the operator must make the following records by the end of the shift in which the following event(s) occur:
(i) If an alert or alarm signal occurs, a record of the date, time, location and type of sensor, and the cause for the activation.
(ii) If an AMS malfunctions, a record of the date, the extent and cause of the malfunction, and the corrective action taken to return the system to proper operation.
(iii) A record of the seven-day tests of alert and alarm signals; calibrations; and maintenance of the AMS must be made by the person(s) performing these actions.
(2) The person entering the record must include their name, date, and signature in the record.
(3) The records required by this section must be kept either in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration, or electronically in a computer system that is secure and not susceptible to alteration. These records must be maintained separately from other records and identifiable by a title, such as the ‘AMS log.’
(p)
Retention period.
Records must be retained for at least one year at a surface location at the mine and made available for inspection by miners and authorized representatives of the Secretary.
(q)
Training.
(1) All AMS operators must be trained annually in the proper operation of the AMS. This training must include the following subjects:
(i) Familiarity with underground mining systems;
(ii) Basic atmospheric monitoring system requirements;
(iii) The mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction;
(iv) The mine ventilation system including planned air directions;
(v) Appropriate response to alert, alarm and malfunction signals;
(vi) Use of mine communication systems including emergency notification procedures; and
(vii) AMS recordkeeping requirements.
(2) At least once every six months, all AMS operators must travel to all working sections.
(3) A record of the content of training, the person conducting the training, and the date the training was conducted, must be maintained at the mine for at least one year by the mine operator.
(r)
Communications.
When an AMS is used to comply with § 75.350(b), a two-way voice communication system required by § 75.1600 must be installed in an entry that is separate from the entry in which the AMS is installed no later than August 2, 2004. The two-way voice communication system may be installed in the entry where the intake sensors required by §§ 75.350(b)(4) or 75.350(d)(1) are installed.
[69 FR 17527, Apr. 2, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 80612, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.352
Actions in response to AMS malfunction, alert, or alarm signals.
(a) When a malfunction, alert, or alarm signal is received at the designated surface location, the sensor(s) that are activated must be identified and the AMS operator must promptly notify appropriate personnel.
(b) Upon notification of a malfunction, alert, or alarm signal, appropriate personnel must promptly initiate an investigation to determine the cause of the signal and take the required actions set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), or (e) of this section.
(c) If any sensor installed in accordance with §§ 75.340(a)(1)(ii), 75.340(a)(2)(ii), 75.350(b), or 75.350(d) indicates an alarm or if any two consecutive sensors indicate alert at the same time, the following procedures must be followed unless the cause of the signal(s) is known not to be a hazard to miners:
(1) Appropriate personnel must notify miners in affected working sections, in
affected areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, and at other locations specified in the § 75.1502 approved mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction; and
(2) All personnel in the affected areas, unless assigned other duties under § 75.1502, must be withdrawn promptly to a safe location identified in the mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction.
(d) If there is an alert or alarm signal from a methane sensor installed in accordance with §§ 75.323(d)(1)(ii) and 75.362(f), an investigation must be initiated to determine the cause of the signal, and the actions required under § 75.323 must be taken.
(e) If any fire detection components of the AMS malfunction or are inoperative, immediate action must be taken to return the system to proper operation. While the AMS component repairs are being made, operation of the belt may continue if the following conditions are met:
(1) If one AMS sensor malfunctions or becomes inoperative, a trained person must continuously monitor for carbon monoxide or smoke at the inoperative sensor.
(2) If two or more adjacent AMS sensors malfunction or become inoperative, a trained person(s) must patrol and continuously monitor for carbon monoxide or smoke so that the affected areas will be traveled each hour in their entirety, or a trained person must be stationed to monitor at each inoperative sensor.
(3) If the complete AMS malfunctions or becomes inoperative, trained persons must patrol and continuously monitor for carbon monoxide or smoke so that the affected areas will be traveled each hour in their entirety.
(4) The trained person(s) monitoring under this section must, at a minimum, have two-way voice communication capabilities with the AMS operator at intervals not to exceed 2,000 feet and report contaminant levels to the AMS operator at intervals not to exceed 60 minutes.
(5) The trained person(s) monitoring under this section must report immediately to the AMS operator any concentration of the contaminant that reaches either the alert or alarm level specified in § 75.351(i), or the alternate alert and alarm levels specified in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, unless the source of the contaminant is known not to present a hazard.
(6) Detectors used to monitor under this section must have a level of detectability equal to that required of the sensors in § 75.351(l).
(7) For those AMSs using sensors other than carbon monoxide sensors, an alternate detector and the alert and alarm levels associated with that detector must be specified in the approved mine ventilation plan.
(f) If the minimum air velocity is not maintained when required under § 75.350(b)(7), immediate action must be taken to return the ventilation system to proper operation. While the ventilation system is being corrected, operation of the belt may continue only while a trained person(s) patrols and continuously monitors for carbon monoxide or smoke as set forth in §§ 75.352(e)(3) through (7), so that the affected areas will be traveled each hour in their entirety.
(g) The AMS shall automatically provide both a visual and audible signal in the belt entry at the point-feed regulator location, at affected sections, and at the designated surface location when carbon monoxide concentrations reach:
(1) The alert level at both point-feed intake monitoring sensors; or
(2) The alarm level at either point-feed intake monitoring sensor.
[69 FR 17529, Apr. 2, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 80613, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.360
Preshift examination at fixed intervals.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a certified person designated by the operator must make a preshift examination within 3 hours preceding the beginning of any 8-hour interval during which any person is scheduled to work or travel underground. No person other than certified examiners may enter or remain in any underground area unless a preshift examination has been completed for the established 8-hour interval. The operator must establish 8-hour intervals of
time subject to the required preshift examinations.
(2) Preshift examinations of areas where pumpers are scheduled to work or travel shall not be required prior to the pumper entering the areas if the pumper is a certified person and the pumper conducts an examination for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (b)(11) of this section, tests for methane and oxygen deficiency, and determines if the air is moving in its proper direction in the area where the pumper works or travels. The examination of the area must be completed before the pumper performs any other work. A record of all hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards found by the pumper shall be made and retained in accordance with § 75.363 of this part.
(b) The person conducting the preshift examination shall examine for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (b)(11) of this section, test for methane and oxygen deficiency, and determine if the air is moving in its proper direction at the following locations:
(1) Roadways, travelways and track haulageways where persons are scheduled, prior to the beginning of the preshift examination, to work or travel during the oncoming shift.
(2) Belt conveyors that will be used to transport persons during the oncoming shift and the entries in which these belt conveyors are located.
(3) Working sections and areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, if anyone is scheduled to work on the section or in the area during the oncoming shift. The scope of the examination shall include the working places, approaches to worked-out areas and ventilation controls on these sections and in these areas, and the examination shall include tests of the roof, face and rib conditions on these sections and in these areas.
(4) Approaches to worked-out areas along intake air courses and at the entries used to carry air into worked-out areas if the intake air passing the approaches is used to ventilate working sections where anyone is scheduled to work during the oncoming shift. The examination of the approaches to the worked-out areas shall be made in the intake air course immediately inby and outby each entry used to carry air into the worked-out area. An examination of the entries used to carry air into the worked-out areas shall be conducted at a point immediately inby the intersection of each entry with the intake air course.
(5) Seals along intake air courses where intake air passes by a seal to ventilate working sections where anyone is scheduled to work during the oncoming shift.
(6)(i) Entries and rooms developed after November 15, 1992, and developed more than 2 crosscuts off an intake air course without permanent ventilation controls where intake air passes through or by these entries or rooms to reach a working section where anyone is scheduled to work during the oncoming shift; and,
(ii) Entries and rooms developed after November 15, 1992, and driven more than 20 feet off an intake air course without a crosscut and without permanent ventilation controls where intake air passes through or by these entries or rooms to reach a working section where anyone is scheduled to work during the oncoming shift.
(7) Areas where trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are to be or will remain energized during the oncoming shift.
(8) High spots along intake air courses where methane is likely to accumulate, if equipment will be operated in the area during the shift.
(9) Underground electrical installations referred to in § 75.340(a), except those pumps listed in § 75.340 (b)(2) through (b)(6), and areas where compressors subject to § 75.344 are installed if the electrical installation or compressor is or will be energized during the shift.
(10) Other areas where work or travel during the oncoming shift is scheduled prior to the beginning of the preshift examination.
(11) Preshift examinations shall include examinations to identify violations of the standards listed below:
(i) §§ 75.202(a) and 75.220(a)(1)—roof control;
(ii) §§ 75.333(h) and 75.370(a)(1)—ventilation, methane;
(iii) §§ 75.400 and 75.403—accumulations of combustible materials and application of rock dust;
(iv) § 75.1403—other safeguards, limited to maintenance of travelways along belt conveyors, off track haulage roadways, and track haulage, track switches, and other components for haulage;
(v) § 75.1722(a)—guarding moving machine parts; and
(vi) § 75.1731(a)—maintenance of belt conveyor components.
(c) The person conducting the preshift examination shall determine the volume of air entering each of the following areas if anyone is scheduled to work in the areas during the oncoming shift:
(1) In the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms on each working section and areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed. The last open crosscut is the crosscut in the line of pillars containing the permanent stoppings that separate the intake air courses and the return air courses.
(2) On each longwall or shortwall in the intake entry or entries at the intake end of the longwall or shortwall face immediately outby the face and the velocity of air at each end of the face at the locations specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(3) At the intake end of any pillar line—
(i) If a single split of air is used, in the intake entry furthest from the return air course, immediately outby the first open crosscut outby the line of pillars being mined; or
(ii) If a split system is used, in the intake entries of each split immediately inby the split point.
(d) The person conducting the preshift examination shall check the refuge alternative for damage, the integrity of the tamper-evident seal and the mechanisms required to deploy the refuge alternative, and the ready availability of compressed oxygen and air.
(e) The district manager may require the operator to examine other areas of the mine or examine for other hazards and violations of other mandatory health or safety standards found during the preshift examination.
(f)
Certification.
At each working place examined, the person doing the preshift examination shall certify by initials, date, and the time, that the examination was made. In areas required to be examined outby a working section, the certified person shall certify by initials, date, and the time at enough locations to show that the entire area has been examined.
(g)
Recordkeeping.
A record of the results of each preshift examination, including a record of hazardous conditions and violations of the nine mandatory health or safety standards and their locations found by the examiner during each examination, and of the results and locations of air and methane measurements, shall be made on the surface before any persons, other than certified persons conducting examinations required by this subpart, enter any underground area of the mine. The results of methane tests shall be recorded as the percentage of methane measured by the examiner. The record shall be made by the certified person who made the examination or by a person designated by the operator. If the record is made by someone other than the examiner, the examiner shall verify the record by initials and date by or at the end of the shift for which the examination was made. A record shall also be made by a certified person of the action taken to correct hazardous conditions and violations of mandatory health or safety standards found during the preshift examination. All preshift and corrective action records shall be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The records required by this section shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(h)
Retention period.
Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be
made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 62 FR 35085, June 30, 1997; 64 FR 45170, Aug. 19, 1999; 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008; 77 FR 20714, Apr. 6, 2012]
§ 75.361
Supplemental examination.
(a)(1) Except for certified persons conducting examinations required by this subpart, within 3 hours before anyone enters an area in which a preshift examination has not been made for that shift, a certified person shall examine the area for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, determine whether the air is traveling in its proper direction and at its normal volume, and test for methane and oxygen deficiency.
(2) Supplemental examinations shall include examinations to identify violations of the standards listed below:
(i) §§ 75.202(a) and 75.220(a)(1)—roof control;
(ii) §§ 75.333(h) and 75.370(a)(1)—ventilation, methane;
(iii) §§ 75.400 and 75.403—accumulations of combustible materials and application of rock dust;
(iv) § 75.1403—other safeguards, limited to maintenance of travelways along belt conveyors, off track haulage roadways, and track haulage, track switches, and other components for haulage;
(v) § 75.1722(a)—guarding moving machine parts; and
(vi) § 75.1731(a)—maintenance of belt conveyor components.
(b)
Certification.
At each working place examined, the person making the supplemental examination shall certify by initials, date, and the time, that the examination was made. In areas required to be examined outby a working section, the certified person shall certify by initials, date, and the time at enough locations to show that the entire area has been examined.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 20714, 2012]
§ 75.362
On-shift examination.
(a)(1) At least once during each shift, or more often if necessary for safety, a certified person designated by the operator shall conduct an on-shift examination of each section where anyone is assigned to work during the shift and any area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed during the shift. The certified person shall check for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, test for methane and oxygen deficiency, and determine if the air is moving in its proper direction.
(2) A person designated by the operator shall conduct an examination and record the results and the corrective actions taken to assure compliance with the respirable dust control parameters specified in the approved mine ventilation plan. In those instances when a shift change is accomplished without an interruption in production on a section, the examination shall be made anytime within 1 hour after the shift change. In those instances when there is an interruption in production during the shift change, the examination shall be made before production begins on a section. Deficiencies in dust controls shall be corrected before production begins or resumes. The examination shall include: Air quantities and velocities; water pressures and flow rates; excessive leakage in the water delivery system; water spray numbers and orientations; section ventilation and control device placement; roof bolting machine dust collector vacuum levels; scrubber air flow rate; work practices required by the ventilation plan; and any other dust suppression measures. Measurements of the air velocity and quantity, water pressure and flow rates are not required if continuous monitoring of these controls is used and indicates that the dust controls are functioning properly.
(3) On-shift examinations shall include examinations to identify violations of the standards listed below:
(i) §§ 75.202(a) and 75.220(a)(1)—roof control;
(ii) §§ 75.333(h) and 75.370(a)(1)—ventilation, methane;
(iii) §§ 75.400 and 75.403—accumulations of combustible materials and application of rock dust;
(iv) § 75.1403—other safeguards, limited to maintenance of travelways along belt conveyors, off track haulage roadways, and track haulage, track switches, and other components for haulage;
(v) § 75.1722(a)—guarding moving machine parts; and
(vi) § 75.1731(a)—maintenance of belt conveyor components.
(b) During each shift that coal is produced, a certified person shall examine for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (a)(3) of this section along each belt conveyor haulageway where a belt conveyor is operated. This examination may be conducted at the same time as the preshift examination of belt conveyors and belt conveyor haulageways, if the examination is conducted within 3 hours before the oncoming shift.
(c) Persons conducting the on-shift examination shall determine at the following locations:
(1) The volume of air in the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms on each section and areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed. The last open crosscut is the crosscut in the line of pillars containing the permanent stoppings that separate the intake air courses and the return air courses.
(2) The volume of air on a longwall or shortwall, including areas where longwall or shortwall equipment is being installed or removed, in the intake entry or entries at the intake end of the longwall or shortwall.
(3) The velocity of air at each end of the longwall or shortwall face at the locations specified in the approved ventilation plan.
(4) The volume of air at the intake end of any pillar line—
(i) Where a single split of air is used in the intake entry furthest from the return air course immediately outby the first open crosscut outby the line of pillars being mined; or
(ii) Where a split system is used in the intake entries of each split immediately inby the split point.
(d) (1) A qualified person shall make tests for methane—
(i) At the start of each shift at each working place before electrically operated equipment is energized; and
(ii) Immediately before equipment is energized, taken into, or operated in a working place; and
(iii) At 20-minute intervals, or more often if required in the approved ventilation plan at specific locations, during the operation of equipment in the working place.
(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, these methane tests shall be made at the face from under permanent roof support, using extendable probes or other acceptable means. When longwall or shortwall mining systems are used, these methane tests shall be made at the shearer, the plow, or the cutting head. When mining has been stopped for more than 20 minutes, methane tests shall be conducted prior to the start up of equipment.
(3) As an alternative method of compliance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section during roof bolting, methane tests may be made by sweeping an area not less than 16 feet inby the last area of permanently supported roof, using a probe or other acceptable means. This method of testing is conditioned on meeting the following requirements:
(i) The roof bolting machine must be equipped with an integral automated temporary roof support (ATRS) system that meets the requirements of 30 CFR 75.209.
(ii) The roof bolting machine must have a permanently mounted, MSHA-approved methane monitor which meets the maintenance and calibration requirements of 30 CFR 75.342(a)(4), the warning signal requirements of 30 CFR 75.342(b), and the automatic de-energization requirements of 30 CFR 75.342(c).
(iii) The methane monitor sensor must be mounted near the inby end and within 18 inches of the longitudinal center of the ATRS support, and positioned at least 12 inches from the roof when the ATRS is fully deployed.
(iv) Manual methane tests must be made at intervals not exceeding 20 minutes. The test may be made either from under permanent roof support or
from the roof bolter's work position protected by the deployed ATRS.
(v) Once a methane test is made at the face, all subsequent methane tests in the same area of unsupported roof must also be made at the face, from under permanent roof support, using extendable probes or other acceptable means at intervals not exceeding 20 minutes.
(vi) The district manager may require that the ventilation plan include the minimum air quantity and the position and placement of ventilation controls to be maintained during roof bolting.
(e) If auxiliary fans and tubing are used, they shall be inspected frequently.
(f) During each shift that coal is produced and at intervals not exceeding 4 hours, tests for methane shall be made by a certified person or by an atmospheric monitoring system (AMS) in each return split of air from each working section between the last working place, or longwall or shortwall face, ventilated by that split of air and the junction of the return air split with another air split, seal, or worked-out area. If auxiliary fans and tubing are used, the tests shall be made at a location outby the auxiliary fan discharge.
(g)
Certification.
(1) The person conducting the on-shift examination in belt haulage entries shall certify by initials, date, and time that the examination was made. The certified person shall certify by initials, date, and the time at enough locations to show that the entire area has been examined.
(2) The certified person directing the on-shift examination to assure compliance with the respirable dust control parameters specified in the approved mine ventilation plan shall:
(i) Certify by initials, date, and time on a board maintained at the section load-out or similar location showing that the examination was made prior to resuming production; and
(ii) Verify, by initials and date, the record of the results of the examination required under (a)(2) of this section to assure compliance with the respirable dust control parameters specified in the mine ventilation plan. The verification shall be made no later than the end of the shift for which the examination was made.
(3) The mine foreman or equivalent mine official shall countersign each examination record required under (a)(2) of this section after it is verified by the certified person under (g)(2)(ii) of this section, and no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(4) Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 26442, May 28, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 40138, July 7, 2003; 77 FR 20715, Apr. 6, 2012; 79 FR 24987, May 1, 2014]
§ 75.363
Hazardous conditions and violations of mandatory health or safety standards; posting, correcting, and recording.
(a) Any hazardous condition found by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, assistant mine foreman or equivalent mine official, or other certified persons designated by the operator for the purposes of conducting examinations under this subpart D, shall be posted with a conspicuous danger sign where anyone entering the areas would pass. A hazardous condition shall be corrected immediately or the area shall remain posted until the hazardous condition is corrected. If the condition creates an imminent danger, everyone except those persons referred to in section 104(c) of the Act shall be withdrawn from the area affected to a safe area until the hazardous condition is corrected. Only persons designated by the operator to correct or evaluate the hazardous condition may enter the posted area. Any violation of a mandatory health or safety standard found during a preshift, supplemental, on-shift, or weekly examination shall be corrected.
(b) A record shall be made of any hazardous condition and any violation of the nine mandatory health or safety
standards found by the mine examiner. This record shall be kept in a book maintained for this purpose on the surface at the mine. The record shall be made by the completion of the shift on which the hazardous condition or violation of the nine mandatory health or safety standards is found and shall include the nature and location of the hazardous condition or violation and the corrective action taken. This record shall not be required for shifts when no hazardous conditions or violations of the nine mandatory health or safety standards are found.
(c) The record shall be made by the certified person who conducted the examination or a person designated by the operator. If made by a person other than the certified person, the certified person shall verify the record by initials and date by or at the end of the shift for which the examination was made. Records shall be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(d)
Retention period.
Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
(e)
Review of citations and orders.
The mine operator shall review with mine examiners on a quarterly basis citations and orders issued in areas where preshift, supplemental, on-shift, and weekly examinations are required.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 26442, May 28, 1996; 77 FR 20715, Apr. 6, 2012]
§ 75.364
Weekly examination.
(a)
Worked-out areas.
(1) At least every 7 days, a certified person shall examine unsealed worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered by traveling to the area of deepest penetration; measuring methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantities and making tests to determine if the air is moving in the proper direction in the area. The locations of measurement points where tests and measurements will be performed shall be included in the mine ventilation plan and shall be adequate in number and location to assure ventilation and air quality in the area. Air quantity measurements shall also be made where the air enters and leaves the worked-out area. An alternative method of evaluating the ventilation of the area may be approved in the ventilation plan.
(2) At least every 7 days, a certified person shall evaluate the effectiveness of bleeder systems required by § 75.334 as follows:
(i) Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantity and a test to determine if the air is moving in its proper direction shall be made where air enters the worked-out area.
(ii) Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantity and a test to determine if the air is moving in the proper direction shall be made immediately before the air enters a return split of air.
(iii) At least one entry of each set of bleeder entries used as part of a bleeder system under § 75.334 shall be traveled in its entirety. Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantities and a test to determine if the air is moving in the proper direction shall be made at the measurement point locations specified in the mine ventilation plan to determine the effectiveness of the bleeder system.
(iv) In lieu of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section, an alternative method of evaluation may be specified in the ventilation plan provided the alternative method results in proper evaluation of the effectiveness of the bleeder system.
(b)
Hazardous conditions and violations of mandatory health or safety standards.
At least every 7 days, an examination for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall be made by a certified person designated by the operator at the following locations:
(1) In at least one entry of each intake air course, in its entirety, so that the entire air course is traveled.
(2) In at least one entry of each return air course, in its entirety, so that the entire air course is traveled.
(3) In each longwall or shortwall travelway in its entirety, so that the entire travelway is traveled.
(4) At each seal along return and bleeder air courses and at each seal along intake air courses not examined under § 75.360(b)(5).
(5) In each escapeway so that the entire escapeway is traveled.
(6) On each working section not examined under § 75.360(b)(3) during the previous 7 days.
(7) At each water pump not examined during a preshift examination conducted during the previous 7 days.
(8) Weekly examinations shall include examinations to identify violations of the standards listed below:
(i) §§ 75.202(a) and 75.220(a)(1)—roof control;
(ii) §§ 75.333(h) and 75.370(a)(1)—ventilation, methane;
(iii) §§ 75.400 and 75.403—accumulations of combustible materials and application of rock dust; and
(iv) § 75.1403—maintenance of off track haulage roadways, and track haulage, track switches, and other components for haulage;
(v) § 75.1722(a)—guarding moving machine parts; and
(vi) § 75.1731(a)—maintenance of belt conveyor components.
(c)
Measurements and tests.
At least every 7 days, a certified person shall—
(1) Determine the volume of air entering the main intakes and in each intake split;
(2) Determine the volume of air and test for methane in the last open crosscut in any pair or set of developing entries or rooms, in the return of each split of air immediately before it enters the main returns, and where the air leaves the main returns; and
(3) Test for methane in the return entry nearest each set of seals immediately after the air passes the seals.
(d) Hazardous conditions shall be corrected immediately. If the condition creates an imminent danger, everyone except those persons referred to in section 104(c) of the Act shall be withdrawn from the area affected to a safe area until the hazardous condition is corrected. Any violation of the nine mandatory health or safety standards found during a weekly examination shall be corrected.
(e) The weekly examination may be conducted at the same time as the preshift or on-shift examinations.
(f) (1) The weekly examination is not required during any 7 day period in which no one enters any underground area of the mine.
(2) Except for certified persons required to make examinations, no one shall enter any underground area of the mine if a weekly examination has not been completed within the previous 7 days.
(g)
Certification.
The person making the weekly examinations shall certify by initials, date, and the time that the examination was made. Certifications and times shall appear at enough locations to show that the entire area has been examined.
(h)
Recordkeeping.
At the completion of any shift during which a portion of a weekly examination is conducted, a record of the results of each weekly examination, including a record of hazardous conditions and violations of the nine mandatory health or safety standards found during each examination and their locations, the corrective action taken, and the results and location of air and methane measurements, shall be made. The results of methane tests shall be recorded as the percentage of methane measured by the examiner. The record shall be made by the person making the examination or a person designated by the operator. If made by a person other than the examiner, the examiner shall verify the record by initials and date by or at the end of the shift for which the examination was made. The record shall be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The records required by this section shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(i)
Retention period.
Records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be
made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 20715, Apr. 6, 2012]
§ 75.370
Mine ventilation plan; submission and approval.
(a)(1) The operator shall develop and follow a ventilation plan approved by the district manager. The plan shall be designed to control methane and respirable dust and shall be suitable to the conditions and mining system at the mine. The ventilation plan shall consist of two parts, the plan content as prescribed in § 75.371 and the ventilation map with information as prescribed in § 75.372. Only that portion of the map which contains information required under § 75.371 will be subject to approval by the district manager.
(2) The proposed ventilation plan and any revision to the plan shall be submitted in writing to the district manager. When revisions to a ventilation plan are proposed, only the revised pages, maps, or sketches of the plan need to be submitted. When required in writing by the district manager, the operator shall submit a fully revised plan by consolidating the plan and all revisions in an orderly manner and by deleting all outdated material.
(3) (i) The mine operator shall notify the representative of miners at least 5 days prior to submission of a mine ventilation plan and any revision to a mine ventilation plan. If requested, the mine operator shall provide a copy to the representative of miners at the time of notification. In the event of a situation requiring immediate action on a plan revision, notification of the revision shall be given, and if requested, a copy of the revision shall be provided, to the representative of miners by the operator at the time of submittal;
(ii) A copy of the proposed ventilation plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and
(iii) A copy of the proposed ventilation plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be posted on the mine bulletin board at the time of submittal. The proposed plan or proposed revision shall remain posted until it is approved, withdrawn or denied.
(b) Following receipt of the proposed plan or proposed revision, the representative of miners may submit timely comments to the district manager, in writing, for consideration during the review process. A copy of these comments shall also be provided to the operator by the district manager upon request.
(c) (1) The district manager will notify the operator in writing of the approval or denial of approval of a proposed ventilation plan or proposed revision. A copy of this notification will be sent to the representative of miners by the district manager.
(2) If the district manager denies approval of a proposed plan or revision, the deficiencies of the plan or revision shall be specified in writing and the operator will be provided an opportunity to discuss the deficiencies with the district manager.
(d) No proposed ventilation plan shall be implemented before it is approved by the district manager. Any intentional change to the ventilation system that alters the main air current or any split of the main air current in a manner that could materially affect the safety and health of the miners, or any change to the information required in § 75.371 shall be submitted to and approved by the district manager before implementation.
(e) Before implementing an approved ventilation plan or a revision to a ventilation plan, persons affected by the revision shall be instructed by the operator in its provisions.
(f) The approved ventilation plan and any revisions shall be—
(1) Provided upon request to the representative of miners by the operator following notification of approval;
(2) Made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and
(3) Posted on the mine bulletin board within 1 working day following notification of approval. The approved plan and revisions shall remain posted on the bulletin board for the period that they are in effect.
(g) The ventilation plan for each mine shall be reviewed every 6 months
by an authorized representative of the Secretary to assure that it is suitable to current conditions in the mine.
§ 75.371
Mine ventilation plan; contents.
The mine ventilation plan shall contain the information described below and any additional provisions required by the district manager:
(a) The mine name, company name, mine identification number, and the name of the individual submitting the plan information.
(b) Planned main mine fan stoppages, other than those scheduled for testing, maintenance or adjustment, including procedures to be followed during these stoppages and subsequent restarts (see § 75.311(a)) and the type of device to be used for monitoring main mine fan pressure, if other than a pressure recording device (see 75.310(a)(4)).
(c) Methods of protecting main mine fans and associated components from the forces of an underground explosion if a 15-foot offset from the nearest side of the mine opening is not provided (see § 75.310(a)(6)); and the methods of protecting main mine fans and intake air openings if combustible material will be within 100 feet of the area surrounding the fan or these openings (see § 75.311(f)).
(d) Persons that will be permitted to enter the mine, the work these persons will do while in the mine, and electric power circuits that will be energized when a back-up fan system is used that does not provide the ventilating quantity provided by the main mine fan (see § 75.311(c)).
(e) The locations and operating conditions of booster fans installed in anthracite mines (see § 75.302).
(f) Section and face ventilation systems used and the minimum quantity of air that will be delivered to the working section for each mechanized mining unit, including drawings illustrating how each system is used, and a description of each different dust suppression system used on equipment, identified by make and model, on each working section, including:
(1) The number, types, location, orientation, operating pressure, and flow rate of operating water sprays;
(2) The maximum distance that ventilation control devices will be installed from each working face when mining or installing roof bolts in entries and crosscuts;
(3) Procedures for maintaining the roof bolting machine dust collection system in approved condition; and
(4) Recommended best work practices for equipment operators to minimize dust exposure.
(g) Locations where the air quantities must be greater than 3,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(a)(1)).
(h) In anthracite mines, locations where the air quantities must be greater than 1,500 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(e)(1)).
(i) Working places and working faces other than those where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where a minimum air quantity will be maintained, and the air quantity at those locations (see § 75.325(a)(1)).
(j) The operating volume of machine mounted dust collectors or diffuser fans, if used (see § 75.325(a)(3)), including the type and size of dust collector screen used, and a description of the procedures to maintain dust collectors used on equipment.
(k) The minimum mean entry air velocity in exhausting face ventilation systems where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded, if the velocity will be less than 60 feet per minute. Other working places where coal is not being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where at least 60 feet per minute or some other minimum mean entry air velocity will be maintained (see § 75.326).
(l) The maximum distance if greater than 10 feet from each working face at which face ventilation control devices will be installed (see § 75.330(b)(2)). The working places other than those where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where face ventilation control devices will be used (see § 75.330(b)(1)(ii).
(m) The volume of air required in the last open crosscut or the quantity of air reaching the pillar line if greater than 9,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(b)).
(n) In anthracite mines, the volume of air required in the last open crosscut
or the quantity of air reaching the pillar line if greater than 5,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(e)(2)).
(o) Locations where separations of intake and return air courses will be built and maintained to other than the third connecting crosscut outby each working face (see § 75.333(b)(1)).
(p) The volume of air required at the intake to the longwall sections, if different than 30,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(c)).
(q) The velocities of air on a longwall or shortwall face, and the locations where the velocities must be measured (see § 75.325(c)(2)).
(r) The minimum quantity of air that will be provided during the installation and removal of mechanized mining equipment, the location where this quantity will be provided, and the ventilation controls that will be used (see § 75.325(d), (g), and (i)).
(s) The locations and frequency of the methane tests if required more often by § 75.362(d)(1)(iii) (see § 75.362 (d)(1)(iii).
(t) The locations where samples for “designated areas” will be collected, including the specific location of each sampling device, and the respirable dust control measures used at the dust generating sources for these locations (see §§ 70.207 and 70.209 of this chapter).
(u) The methane and dust control systems at underground dumps, crushers, transfer points, and haulageways.
(v) Areas in trolley haulage entries where the air velocity will be greater than 250 feet per minute and the velocity in these areas (see § 75.327(b)).
(w) Locations where entries will be advanced less than 20 feet from the inby rib without a crosscut being provided where a line brattice will be required. (see § 75.333(g)).
(x) A description of the bleeder system to be used, including its design (see § 75.334).
(y) The means for determining the effectiveness of bleeder systems (see § 75.334(c)(2)).
(z) The locations where measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantities and tests to determine whether the air is moving in the proper direction will be made to evaluate the ventilation of nonpillared worked-out areas (see § 75.364 (a)(1)) and the effectiveness of bleeder systems (see § 75.364 (a)(2)(iii). Alternative methods of evaluation of the effectiveness of bleeder systems (§ 75.364 (a)(2)(iv)).
(aa) The means for adequately maintaining bleeder entries free of obstructions such as roof falls and standing water (see § 75.334(c)(3)).
(bb) The location of ventilation devices such as regulators, stoppings and bleeder connectors used to control air movement through worked-out areas (see § 75.334(c)(4)). The location and sequence of construction of proposed seals for each worked-out area. (see § 75.334(e)).
(cc) In mines with a demonstrated history of spontaneous combustion: a description of the measures that will be used to detect methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen concentration during and after pillar recovery and in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered (see § 75.334(f)(1); and, the actions which will be taken to protect miners from the hazards associated with spontaneous combustion (see § 75.334(f)(2). If a bleeder system will not be used, the methods that will be used to control spontaneous combustion, accumulations of methane-air mixtures, and other gases, dusts, and fumes in the worked-out area (see § 75.334(f)(3)).
(dd) The location of all horizontal degasification holes that are longer than 1,000 feet and the location of all vertical degasification holes.
(ee) If methane drainage systems are used, a detailed sketch of each system, including a description of safety precautions used with the systems.
(ff) Seal installation requirements provided by § 75.335 and the sampling provisions provided by § 75.336.
(gg) The alternative location for the additional sensing device if the device will not be installed on the longwall shearing machine (see § 75.342(a)(2)).
(hh) The ambient level in parts per million of carbon monoxide, and the method for determining the ambient level, in all areas where carbon monoxide sensors are installed.
(ii) The locations (designated areas) where dust measurements would be made in the belt entry when belt air is
used to ventilate working sections or areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, in accordance with § 75.350(b)(3).
(jj) The locations and approved velocities at those locations where air velocities in the belt entry are above or below the limits set forth in § 75.350(a)(2) or §§ 75.350(b)(7) and 75.350(b)(8).
(kk) The locations where air quantities are measured as set forth in § 75.350(b)(6).
(ll) The locations and use of point-feed regulators, in accordance with §§ 75.350(c) and 75.350(d)(5).
(mm) The location of any diesel-discriminating sensor, and additional carbon monoxide or smoke sensors installed in the belt air course.
(nn) The length of the time delay or any other method used to reduce the number of non-fire related alert and alarm signals from carbon monoxide sensors.
(oo) The reduced alert and alarm settings for carbon monoxide sensors, in accordance with § 75.351(i)(2).
(pp) The alternate detector and the alert and alarm levels associated with the detector, in accordance with § 75.352(e)(7).
(qq) The distance that separation between the primary escapeway and the belt or track haulage entries will be maintained if other than to the first connecting crosscut outby the section loading point (see § 75.380(g)).
(rr) In anthracite mines, the dimensions of escapeways where the pitch of the coal seam does not permit escapeways to be maintained 4 feet by 5 feet and the locations where these dimensions must be maintained (see § 75.381(c)(4)).
(ss) Areas designated by the district manager where measurements of CO and NO
2
concentrations will be made (see § 70.1900(a)(4)).
(tt) Location where the air quantity will be maintained at the section loading point (see § 75.325(f)(2)).
(uu) Any additional location(s) required by the district manager where a minimum air quantity must be maintained for an individual unit of diesel-powered equipment. (see § 75.325(f)(5)).
(vv) The minimum air quantities that will be provided where multiple units of diesel-powered equipment are operated (see § 75.325(g) (1)-(3) and (i)).
(ww) The diesel-powered mining equipment excluded from the calculation under § 75.325(g). (see § 75.325(h)).
(xx) Action levels higher than the 50 percent level specified by § 70.1900(c). (see § 75.325(j)).
(yy) The locations where the pressure differential cannot be maintained from the primary escapeway to the belt entry.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 69 FR 17529, Apr. 2, 2004; 72 FR 28817, May 22, 2007; 73 FR 21209, Apr. 18, 2008; 73 FR 80613, Dec. 31, 2008; 79 FR 24987, May 1, 2014]
§ 75.372
Mine ventilation map.
(a)(1) At intervals not exceeding 12 months, the operator shall submit to the district manager 3 copies of an up-to-date map of the mine drawn to a scale of not less than 100 nor more than 500 feet to the inch. A registered engineer or a registered surveyor shall certify that the map is accurate.
(2) In addition to the informational requirements of this section the map may also be used to depict and explain plan contents that are required in § 75.371. Information shown on the map to satisfy the requirements of § 75.371 shall be subject to approval by the district manager.
(b) The map shall contain the following information:
(1) The mine name, company name, mine identification number, a legend identifying the scale of the map and symbols used, and the name of the individual responsible for the information on the map.
(2) All areas of the mine, including sealed and unsealed worked-out areas.
(3) All known mine workings that are located in the same coalbed within 1,000 feet of existing or projected workings. These workings may be shown on a mine map with a scale other than that required by paragraph (a) of this section, if the scale does not exceed 2,000 feet to the inch and is specified on the map.
(4) The locations of all known mine workings underlying and overlying the mine property and the distance between the mine workings.
(5) The locations of all known oil and gas wells and all known drill holes that penetrate the coalbed being mined.
(6) The locations of all main mine fans, installed backup fans and motors, and each fan's specifications, including size, type, model number, manufacturer, operating pressure, motor horsepower, and revolutions per minute.
(7) The locations of all surface mine openings and the direction and quantity of air at each opening.
(8) The elevation at the top and bottom of each shaft and slope, and shaft and slope dimensions, including depth and length.
(9) The direction of air flow in all underground areas of the mine.
(10) The locations of all active working sections and the four-digit identification number for each mechanized mining unit (MMU).
(11) The location of all escapeways and refuge alternatives.
(12) The locations of all ventilation controls, including permanent stoppings, overcasts, undercasts, regulators, seals, airlock doors, haulageway doors and other doors, except temporary ventilation controls on working sections.
(13) The direction and quantity of air—
(i) Entering and leaving each split;
(ii) In the last open crosscut of each set of entries and rooms; and
(iii) At the intake end of each pillar line, including any longwall or shortwall.
(14) Projections for at least 12 months of anticipated mine development, proposed ventilation controls, proposed bleeder systems, and the anticipated location of intake and return air courses, belt entries, and escapeways.
(15) The locations of existing methane drainage systems.
(16) The locations and type of all AMS sensors required by subpart D of this part.
(17) Contour lines that pass through whole number elevations of the coalbed being mined. These lines shall be spaced at 10-foot elevation levels unless a wider spacing is permitted by the district manager.
(18) The location of proposed seals for each worked-out area.
(19) The entry height, velocity and direction of the air current at or near the midpoint of each belt flight where the height and width of the entry are representative of the belt haulage entry.
(20) The location and designation of air courses that have been redesignated from intake to return for the purpose of ventilation of structures, areas or installations that are required by this subpart D to be ventilated to return air courses, and for ventilation of seals.
(c) The mine map required by § 75.1200 may be used to satisfy the requirements for the ventilation map, provided that all the information required by this section is contained on the map.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 17530, Apr. 2, 2004; 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.373
Reopening mines.
After a mine is abandoned or declared inactive, and before it is reopened, mining operations shall not begin until MSHA has been notified and has completed an inspection.
§ 75.380
Escapeways; bituminous and lignite mines.
(a) Except in situations addressed in § 75.381, § 75.385 and § 75.386, at least two separate and distinct travelable passageways shall be designated as escapeways and shall meet the requirements of this section.
(b) (1) Escapeways shall be provided from each working section, and each area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, continuous to the surface escape drift opening or continuous to the escape shaft or slope facilities to the surface.
(2) During equipment installation, these escapeways shall begin at the projected location for the section loading point. During equipment removal, they shall begin at the location of the last loading point.
(c) The two separate and distinct escapeways required by this section shall not end at a common shaft, slope, or drift opening, except that multiple compartment shafts or slopes separated by walls constructed of noncombustible material may be used as separate and distinct passageways.
(d) Each escapeway shall be—
(1) Maintained in a safe condition to always assure passage of anyone, including disabled persons;
(2) Clearly marked to show the route and direction of travel to the surface;
(3) Maintained to at least a height of 5 feet from the mine floor to the mine roof, excluding the thickness of any roof support, except that the escapeways shall be maintained to at least the height of the coalbed, excluding the thickness of any roof support, where the coalbed is less than 5 feet. In areas of mines where escapeways pass through doors, the height may be less than 5 feet, provided that sufficient height is maintained to enable miners, including disabled persons, to escape quickly in an emergency. In areas of mines developed before November 16, 1992, where escapeways pass over or under overcasts or undercasts, the height may be less than 5 feet provided that sufficient height is maintained to enable miners, including disabled persons, to escape quickly in an emergency. When there is a need to determine whether sufficient height is provided, MSHA may require a stretcher test where 4 persons carry a miner through the area in question on a stretcher;
(4) Maintained at least 6 feet wide except—
(i) Where necessary supplemental roof support is installed, the escapeway shall not be less than 4 feet wide; or
(ii) Where the route of travel passes through doors or other permanent ventilation controls, the escapeway shall be at least 4 feet wide to enable miners to escape quickly in an emergency, or
(iii) Where the alternate escapeway passes through doors or other permanent ventilation controls or where supplemental roof support is required and sufficient width is maintained to enable miners, including disabled persons, to escape quickly in an emergency. When there is a need to determine whether sufficient width is provided, MSHA may require a stretcher test where 4 persons carry a miner through the area in question on a stretcher, or
(iv) Where mobile equipment near working sections, and other equipment essential to the ongoing operation of longwall sections, is necessary during normal mining operations, such as material cars containing rock dust or roof control supplies, or is to be used for the evacuation of miners off the section in the event of an emergency. In any instance, escapeways shall be of sufficient width to enable miners, including disabled persons, to escape quickly in an emergency. When there is a need to determine whether sufficient width is provided, MSHA may require a stretcher test where 4 persons carry a miner through the area in question on a stretcher;
(5) Located to follow the most direct, safe and practical route to the nearest mine opening suitable for the safe evacuation of miners; and
(6) Provided with ladders, stairways, ramps, or similar facilities where the escapeways cross over obstructions.
(7) Provided with a continuous, durable directional lifeline or equivalent device that shall be—
(i) Installed and maintained throughout the entire length of each escapeway as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Flame-resistant in accordance with the requirements of part 18 of this chapter upon replacement of existing lifelines; but in no case later than June 15, 2009;
(iii) Marked with a reflective material every 25 feet;
(iv) Located in such a manner for miners to use effectively to escape;
(v) Equipped with one directional indicator cone securely attached to the lifeline, signifying the route of escape, placed at intervals not exceeding 100 feet. Cones shall be installed so that the tapered section points inby;
(vi) Equipped with one sphere securely attached to the lifeline at each intersection where personnel doors are installed in adjacent crosscuts;
(vii) Equipped with two securely attached cones, installed consecutively with the tapered section pointing inby, to signify an attached branch line is immediately ahead.
(A) A branch line leading from the lifeline to an SCSR cache will be marked with four cones with the base sections in contact to form two diamond shapes. The cones must be placed within reach of the lifeline.
(B) A branch line leading from the lifeline to a refuge alternative will be marked with a rigid spiraled coil at least eight inches in length. The spiraled coil must be placed within reach of the lifeline (see Illustration 1 below).
ER31DE08.001
(e) Surface openings shall be adequately protected to prevent surface fires, fumes, smoke, and flood water from entering the mine.
(f)
Primary escapeway.
(1) One escapeway that is ventilated with intake air shall be designated as the primary escapeway. The primary escapeway shall have a higher ventilation pressure than the belt entry unless the mine operator submits an alternative in the mine ventilation plan to protect the integrity of the primary escapeway, based on mine specific conditions, which is approved by the district manager.
(2) Paragraphs (f)(3) through (f)(7) of this section apply as follows:
(i) To all areas of a primary escapeway developed on or after November 16, 1992;
(ii) Effective as of June 10, 1997, to all areas of a primary escapeway developed between March 30, 1970 and November 16, 1992; and
(iii) Effective as of June 10, 1997, to all areas of the primary escapeway developed prior to March 30, 1970 where separation of the belt and trolley haulage entries from the primary escapeway existed prior to November 16, 1992.
(3) The following equipment is not permitted in the primary escapeway:
(i) Mobile equipment hauling coal except for hauling coal incidental to
cleanup or maintenance of the primary escapeway.
(ii) Compressors, except—
(A) Compressors necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition;
(B) Compressors that are components of equipment such as locomotives and rock dusting machines; and
(C) Compressors of less than five horsepower.
(iii) Underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, and rectifiers except—
(A) Where necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition; and
(B) Battery charging stations and rectifiers and power centers with transformers that are either dry-type or contain nonflammable liquid, provided they are located on or near a working section and are moved as the section advances or retreats.
(iv) Water pumps, except—
(A) Water pumps necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition;
(B) Submersible pumps;
(C) Permissible pumps and associated permissible switchgear;
(D) Pumps located on or near a working section that are moved as the section advances or retreats;
(E) Pumps installed in anthracite mines; and
(F) Small portable pumps.
(4) Mobile equipment operated in the primary escapeway, except for continuous miners and as provided in paragraphs (f)(5), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of this section, shall be equipped with a fire suppression system installed according to §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16 that is—
(i) Manually operated and attended continuously by a person trained in the systems function and use, or
(ii) A multipurpose dry chemical type capable of both automatic and manual activation.
(5) Personnel carriers and small mobile equipment designed and used only for carrying people and small hand tools may be operated in primary escapeways if—
(i) The equipment is provided with a multipurpose dry chemical type fire suppression system capable of both automatic and manual activation, and the suppression system is suitable for the intended application and is listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory, or,
(ii) Battery powered and provided with two 10 pound multipurpose dry chemical portable fire extinguishers.
(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(i), mobile equipment not provided with a fire suppression system may operate in the primary escapeway if no one is inby except those persons directly engaged in using or moving the equipment.
(7) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(i), mobile equipment designated and used only as emergency vehicles or ambulances, may be operated in the primary escapeway without fire suppression systems.
(g) Except where separation of belt and trolley haulage entries from designated escapeways did not exist before November 15, 1992, and except as provided in § 75.350(c), the primary escapeway must be separated from belt and trolley haulage entries for its entire length, to and including the first connecting crosscut outby each loading point except when a greater or lesser distance for this separation is specified and approved in the mine ventilation plan and does not pose a hazard to miners.
(h)
Alternate escapeway.
One escapeway shall be designated as the alternate escapeway. The alternate escapeway shall be separated from the primary escapeway for its entire length, except that the alternate and primary escapeways may be ventilated from a common intake air shaft or slope opening.
(i) Mechanical escape facilities shall be provided and maintained for—
(1) Each shaft that is part of a designated escapeway and is greater than 50 feet in depth; and
(2) Each slope from the coal seam to the surface that is part of a designated escapeway and is inclined more than 9 degrees from the horizontal.
(j) Within 30 minutes after mine personnel on the surface have been notified of an emergency requiring evacuation, mechanical escape facilities provided under paragraph (i) of this section shall be operational at the bottom
of shaft and slope openings that are part of escapeways.
(k) Except where automatically activated hoisting equipment is used, the bottom of each shaft or slope opening that is part of a designated escapeway shall be equipped with a means of signaling a surface location where a person is always on duty when anyone is underground. When the signal is activated or the evacuation of persons underground is necessary, the person shall assure that mechanical escape facilities are operational as required by paragraph (j) of this section.
(l)(1) Stairways or mechanical escape facilities shall be installed in shafts that are part of the designated escapeways and that are 50 feet or less in depth, except ladders may be used in shafts that are part of the designated escapeways and that are 5 feet or less in depth.
(2) Stairways shall be constructed of concrete or metal, set on an angle not to exceed 45 degrees from the horizontal, and equipped on the open side with handrails. In addition, landing platforms that are at least 2 feet by 4 feet shall be installed at intervals not to exceed 20 vertical feet on the stairways and equipped on the open side with handrails.
(3) Ladders shall be constructed of metal, anchored securely, and set on an angle not to exceed 60 degrees from the horizontal.
(m) A travelway designed to prevent slippage shall be provided in slope and drift openings that are part of designated escapeways, unless mechanical escape facilities are installed.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996; 61 FR 20877, May 8, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 69 FR 17530, Apr. 2, 2004; 71 FR 12269, Mar. 9, 2006; 71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006; 73 FR 80613, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.381
Escapeways; anthracite mines.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 75.385 and 75.386, at least two separate and distinct travelable passageways shall be designated as escapeways and shall meet the requirements of this section.
(b) Escapeways shall be provided from each working section continuous to the surface.
(c) Each escapeway shall be—
(1) Maintained in a safe condition to always assure passage of anyone, including disabled persons;
(2) Clearly marked to show the route of travel to the surface;
(3) Provided with ladders, stairways, ramps, or similar facilities where the escapeways cross over obstructions; and
(4) Maintained at least 4 feet wide by 5 feet high. If the pitch or thickness of the coal seam does not permit these dimensions to be maintained other dimensions may be approved in the ventilation plan.
(5) Provided with a continuous, durable directional lifeline or equivalent device that shall be—
(i) Installed and maintained throughout the entire length of each escapeway as defined in paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) Flame-resistant in accordance with the requirements of part 18 of this chapter upon replacement of existing lifelines; but in no case later than June 15, 2009;
(iii) Marked with a reflective material every 25 feet;
(iv) Located in such a manner for miners to use effectively to escape;
(v) Equipped with one directional indicator cone securely attached to the lifeline, signifying the route of escape, placed at intervals not exceeding 100 feet. Cones shall be installed so that the tapered section points inby;
(vi) Equipped with one sphere securely attached to the lifeline at each intersection where personnel doors are installed in adjacent crosscuts;
(vii) Equipped with two securely attached cones, installed consecutively with the tapered section pointing inby, to signify an attached branch line is immediately ahead.
(A) A branch line leading from the lifeline to an SCSR cache will be marked with four cones with the base sections in contact to form two diamond shapes. The cones must be placed within reach of the lifeline.
(B) A branch line leading from the lifeline to a refuge alternative will be marked with a rigid spiraled coil at least eight inches in length. The spiraled coil must be placed within reach of the lifeline.
(d) Surface openings shall be adequately protected to prevent surface fires, fumes, smoke, and flood water from entering the mine.
(e)
Primary escapeway.
One escapeway that shall be ventilated with intake air shall be designated as the primary escapeway. The primary escapeway shall have a higher ventilation pressure than the belt entry unless the mine operator submits an alternative in the mine ventilation plan to protect the integrity of the primary escapeway, based on mine specific conditions, which is approved by the district manager.
(f)
Alternate escapeway.
One escapeway that shall be designated as the alternate escapeway shall be separated from the primary escapeway for its entire length.
(g) Mechanical escape facilities shall be provided—
(1) For each shaft or slope opening that is part of a primary escapeway; and
(2) For slopes that are part of escapeways, unless ladders are installed.
(h) Within 30 minutes after mine personnel on the surface have been notified of an emergency requiring evacuation, mechanical escape facilities shall be operational at the bottom of each shaft and slope opening that is part of an escapeway.
(i) Except where automatically activated hoisting equipment is used, the bottom of each shaft or slope opening that is part of a primary escapeway shall be equipped with a means of signaling a surface location where a person is always on duty when anyone is underground. When the signal is activated or the evacuation of personnel is necessary, the person on duty shall assure that mechanical escape facilities are operational as required by paragraph (h) of this section.
[61 FR 9829, Mar. 11, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 12269, Mar. 9, 2006; 71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006; 73 FR 80614, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.382
Mechanical escape facilities.
(a) Mechanical escape facilities shall be provided with overspeed, overwind, and automatic stop controls.
(b) Every mechanical escape facility with a platform, cage, or other device shall be equipped with brakes that can stop the fully loaded platform, cage, or other device.
(c) Mechanical escape facilities, including automatic elevators, shall be examined weekly. The weekly examination of this equipment may be conducted at the same time as a daily examination required by § 75.1400-3.
(1) The weekly examination shall include an examination of the headgear, connections, links and chains, overspeed and overwind controls, automatic stop controls, and other facilities.
(2) At least once each week, the hoist shall be run through one complete cycle of operation to determine that it is operating properly.
(d) A person trained to operate the mechanical escape facility always shall be available while anyone is underground to provide the mechanical escape facilities, if required, to the bottom of each shaft and slope opening that is part of an escapeway within 30 minutes after personnel on the surface have been notified of an emergency requiring evacuation. However, no operator is required for automatically operated cages, platforms, or elevators.
(e) Mechanical escape facilities shall have rated capacities consistent with the loads handled.
(f) Manually-operated mechanical escape facilities shall be equipped with indicators that accurately and reliably show the position of the facility.
(g)
Certification.
The person making the examination as required by paragraph (c) of this section shall certify by initials, date, and the time that the examination was made. Certifications shall be made at or near the facility examined.
§ 75.384
Longwall and shortwall travelways.
(a) If longwall or shortwall mining systems are used and the two designated escapeways required by § 75.380 are located on the headgate side of the longwall or shortwall, a travelway shall be provided on the tailgate side of that longwall or shortwall. The travelway shall be located to follow the most direct and safe practical route to a designated escapeway.
(b) The route of travel shall be clearly marked.
(c) When a roof fall or other blockage occurs that prevents travel in the travelway—
(1) Work shall cease on the longwall or shortwall face;
(2) Miners shall be withdrawn from face areas to a safe area outby the section loading point; and
(3) MSHA shall be notified.
(d) Work may resume on the longwall or shortwall face after the procedures set out in §§ 75.215 and 75.222 are implemented.
§ 75.385
Opening new mines.
When new mines are opened, no more than 20 miners at a time shall be allowed in any mine until a connection has been made between the mine openings, and these connections shall be made as soon as possible.
§ 75.386
Final mining of pillars.
When only one mine opening is available due to final mining of pillars, no more than 20 miners at a time shall be allowed in the mine, and the distance between the mine opening and working face shall not exceed 500 feet.
§ 75.388
Boreholes in advance of mining.
(a) Boreholes shall be drilled in each advancing working place when the working place approaches—
(1) To within 50 feet of any area located in the mine as shown by surveys that are certified by a registered engineer or registered surveyor unless the area has been preshift examined;
(2) To within 200 feet of any area located in the mine not shown by surveys that are certified by a registered engineer or registered surveyor unless the area has been preshift examined; or
(3) To within 200 feet of any mine workings of an adjacent mine located in the same coalbed unless the mine workings have been preshift examined.
(b) Boreholes shall be drilled as follows:
(1) Into the working face, parallel to the rib, and within 3 feet of each rib.
(2) Into the working face, parallel to the rib, and at intervals across the face not to exceed 8 feet.
(3) At least 20 feet in depth in advance of the working face, and always maintained to a distance of 10 feet in advance of the working face.
(c) Boreholes shall be drilled in both ribs of advancing working places described in paragraph (a) of this section unless an alternative drilling plan is approved by the District Manager in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. These boreholes shall be drilled—
(1) At an angle of 45 degrees to the direction of advance;
(2) At least 20 feet in depth; and
(3) At intervals not to exceed 8 feet.
(d) When a borehole penetrates an area that cannot be examined, and before mining continues, a certified person shall, if possible, determine—
(1) The direction of airflow in the borehole;
(2) The pressure differential between the penetrated area and the mine workings;
(3) The concentrations of methane, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide; and
(4) Whether water is impounded within the penetrated area.
(e) Unless action is taken to dewater or to ventilate penetrated areas, boreholes shall be plugged with wooden plugs or similar devices when—
(1) Tests conducted at the boreholes show that the atmosphere in the penetrated area contains more than 1.0 percent methane, less than 19.5 percent oxygen, or harmful concentrations of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide or other explosive, harmful or noxious gases;
(2) Tests for methane, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide cannot be made because air from mine workings is flowing into the penetrated area; or
(3) Water is discharging through the boreholes from the penetrated area into the mine workings.
(f) If mining is to be conducted within 50 feet above or below an inaccessible area of another mine, boreholes shall be drilled, as necessary, according to a plan approved by the district manager.
(g) Alternative borehole patterns that provide the same protection to miners as the pattern established by
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be used under a plan approved by the district manager.
§ 75.389
Mining into inaccessible areas.
(a) (1) The operator shall develop and follow a plan for mining into areas penetrated by boreholes drilled under § 75.388.
(2) Mining shall not resume into any area penetrated by boreholes until conditions in the penetrated area can be determined under § 75.388 and the plan for mining-through into the area has been approved by the district manager.
(3) A copy of the procedures to be followed shall be posted near the site of the mining-through operations and the operator shall explain these procedures to all miners involved in the operations.
(b) The procedures specified in the plan shall include—
(1) The method of ventilation, ventilation controls, and the air quantities and velocities in the affected working section and working place;
(2) Dewatering procedures to be used if a penetrated area contains a water accumulation; and
(3) The procedures and precautions to be followed during mining-through operations.
(c) Except for routine mining-through operations that are part of a retreat section ventilation system approved in accordance with § 75.371(f) and (x), the following provisions shall apply:
(1) Before and during mining-through operations, a certified person shall perform air quality tests at intervals and at locations necessary to protect the safety of the miners.
(2) During mining-through operations, only persons involved in these operations shall be permitted in the mine; and
(3) After mining-through, a certified person shall determine that the affected areas are safe before any persons enter the underground areas of the mine.

# Subpart E—Combustible Materials and Rock Dusting
§ 75.400
Accumulation of combustible materials.
Coal dust, including float coal dust deposited on rock-dusted surfaces, loose coal, and other combustible materials, shall be cleaned up and not be permitted to accumulate in active workings, or on diesel-powered and electric equipment therein.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996]
§ 75.400-1
Definitions.
(a) The term
coal dust
means particles of coal that can pass a No. 20 sieve.
(b) The term
float coal dust
means the coal dust consisting of particles of coal that can pass a No. 200 sieve.
(c) The term
loose coal
means coal fragments larger in size than coal dust.
§ 75.400-2
Cleanup program.
A program for regular cleanup and removal of accumulations of coal and float coal dusts, loose coal, and other combustibles shall be established and maintained. Such program shall be available to the Secretary or authorized representative.
§ 75.401
Abatement of dust; water or water with a wetting agent.

# [Statutory Provision]
Where underground mining operations in active workings create or raise excessive amounts of dust, water or water with a wetting agent added to it, or other no less effective methods approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative, shall be used to abate such dust. In working places, particularly in distances less than 40 feet from the face, water, with or without a wetting agent, or other no less effective methods approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative, shall be applied to coal dust on the ribs, roof, and floor to reduce dispersibility and to minimize the explosion hazard.
§ 75.401-1
Excessive amounts of dust.
The term “excessive amounts of dust” means coal and float coal dust in
the air in such amounts as to create the potential of an explosion hazard.
§ 75.402
Rock dusting.

# [Statutory Provision]
All underground areas of a coal mine, except those areas in which the dust is too wet or too high in incombustible content to propagate an explosion, shall be rock dusted to within 40 feet of all working faces, unless such areas are inaccessible or unsafe to enter or unless the Secretary or his authorized representative permits an exception upon his finding that such exception will not pose a hazard to the miners. All crosscuts that are less than 40 feet from a working face shall also be rock dusted.
§ 75.402-1
Definition.
The term
too wet
means that sufficient natural moisture is retained by the dust that when a ball of finely divided material is squeezed in the hands water is exuded.
§ 75.402-2
Exceptions.
Exceptions granted under § 75.402 by the Secretary or his authorized representative shall be reviewed periodically.
§ 75.403
Maintenance of incombustible content of rock dust.
Where rock dust is required to be applied, it shall be distributed upon the top, floor, and sides of all underground areas of a coal mine and maintained in such quantities that the incombustible content of the combined coal dust, rock dust, and other dust shall be not less than 80 percent. Where methane is present in any ventilating current, the percent of incombustible content of such combined dust shall be increased 0.4 percent for each 0.1 percent of methane.
[75 FR 57857, Sept. 23, 2010; 76 FR 35978, June 21, 2011]
§ 75.403-1
Incombustible content.
Moisture contained in the combined coal dust, rock dust and other dusts shall be considered as a part of the incombustible content of such mixture.
§ 75.404
Exemption of anthracite mines.

# [Statutory Provision]
Sections 75.401, 75.402, and 75.403 shall not apply to underground anthracite mines.

# Subpart F—Electrical Equipment—General
§ 75.500
Permissible electric equipment.

# [Statutory Provision]
On and after March 30, 1971:
(a) All junction or distribution boxes used for making multiple power connections inby the last open crosscut shall be permissible;
(b) All handheld electric drills, blower and exhaust fans, electric pumps, and such other low horsepower electric face equipment as the Secretary may designate on or before May 30, 1970, which are taken into or used inby the last open crosscut of any coal mine shall be permissible;
(c) All electric face equipment which is taken into or used inby the last open crosscut of any coal mine classified under any provision of law as gassy prior to March 30, 1970, shall be permissible; and
(d) All other electric face equipment which is taken into or used inby the last crosscut of any coal mine, except a coal mine referred to in § 75.501, which has not been classified under any provision of law as a gassy mine prior to March 30, 1970, shall be permissible.
§ 75.500-1
Other low horsepower electric face equipment.
Other low horsepower electric face equipment designated pursuant to the provisions of § 75.500(b) is all other electric-driven mine equipment, except low horsepower rock dusting equipment, and employs an electric current supplied by either a power conductor or battery and consumes not more than 2,250 watts of electricity and which is taken into or used inby the last open crosscut.
§ 75.501
Permissible electric face equipment; coal seams above water table.

# [Statutory Provision]
On and after March 30, 1974, all electric face equipment, other than equipment referred to in paragraph (b) of § 75.500, which is taken into and used inby the last open crosscut of any coal mine which is operated entirely in coal seams located above the water table and which has not been classified under any provision of law as a gassy mine prior to March 30, 1970, and in which one or more openings were made prior to December 30, 1969, shall be permissible.
§ 75.501-1
Coal seams above the water table.
As used in § 75.501, the phrase “coal seams above the water table” means coal seams in a mine which are located at an elevation above a river or the tributary of a river into which a local surface water system naturally drains.
§ 75.501-2
Permissible electric face equipment.
(a) On and after March 30, 1971, in mines operated entirely in coal seams which are located at elevations above the water table:
(1) All junction or distribution boxes used for making multiple power connections inby the last open crosscut shall be permissible; and
(2) All handheld electric drills, blower and exhaust fans, electric pumps, and all other electric-driven mine equipment, except low horsepower rock dusting equipment, that employs an electric current supplied by either a power conductor or battery and consumes not more than 2,250 watts of electricity, which is taken into or used inby the last open crosscut shall be permissible.
(b) On and after March 30, 1974, in mines operated entirely in coal seams which are located at elevations above the water table, all electric face equipment which is taken into or used inby the last crosscut shall be permissible.
§ 75.501-3
New openings; mines above water table and never classed gassy.
(a) Where a new opening(s) is proposed to be developed by shaft, slope, or drift from the surface to, or in, any coalbed and the operator considers such proposed new opening(s) to be a part of a mine coming under section 305(a)(2) of the Act and § 75.501 the operator shall so notify the District Manager for the District in which the mine is located in writing prior to the date any actual development (in coal) through such opening(s) is undertaken. Such notification shall include the following information:
(1) Name, address, and identification number of the existing mine.
(2) A current map of the existing mine clearly setting out the proposed new opening(s), mining plan and planned interconnection, if any, with existing workings.
(3) A statement as to when the operator obtained the right to mine the coal which the proposed new opening(s) will traverse.
(4) The name of the coalbeds currently being mined and those which the new opening(s) will traverse.
(5) The expected life of the mine.
(6) The reason(s) for the proposed new opening(s) (for example, haulage, ventilation, drainage, to avoid bad roof, escapeway).
The District Manager shall require submission of any additional information he considers pertinent.
(b) The District Manager shall make a determination based on all of the information submitted by the operator as to whether the proposed new opening(s) will be considered as a part of the existing mine or as a new mine. The following guidelines and criteria shall be used by the District Manager in making his determination:
(1) The effect that the proposed new opening(s) will have on the safety of the men working in the existing mine shall be considered of primary importance.
(2) Whether the operator had a right to mine the coal which the proposed new openings will traverse prior to the date of enactment of the Act (December 30, 1969) and whether the original mining plan included mining such coal.
(3) Whether, in accordance with the usual mining practices common to the particular district, the proposed new openings would have been considered a new mine or part of the existing mine. A number of factors will be considered including, but not limited to:
(i) The relationship between the coalbeds currently being mined, and those proposed to be mined;
(ii) The distance between existing openings and the proposed new opening(s);
(iii) The projected time elapsing between the start of the new opening(s) and planned interconnection, if any, with the existing mine; and
(iv) The projected tonnage of coal which is expected to be mined prior to interconnection where interconnection is planned.
The District Manager shall notify the operator in writing within 30 days of receiving all of the information, required and requested, of his determination. No informal notification shall be given.
(c) All new opening(s) shall be operated as a new mine prior to receiving a written notification from the District Manager that such new opening(s) will be considered part of an existing mine coming under section 305(a)(2) of the Act and § 75.501.
(d) Nothing in this § 75.501-3 shall be construed to relieve the operator from compliance with any of the mandatory standards contained in this Part 75.
[37 FR 8949, May 3, 1972]
§ 75.502
Permits for noncompliance.
An operator need not comply with paragraph (d) of § 75.500 or with § 75.501 during the period of time specified in a permit issued by the Interim Compliance Panel established by the Act.
§ 75.503
Permissible electric face equipment; maintenance.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The operator of each coal mine shall maintain in permissible condition all electric face equipment required by §§ 75.500, 75.501, 75.504 to be permissible which is taken into or used inby the last open crosscut of any such mine.
§ 75.503-1
Statement listing all electric face equipment.
Each operator of a coal mine shall complete and file Mine Safety and Health Administration Form No. 6-1496 entitled “Coal Operator's Electrical Survey” and Form 6-1496 Supplemental entitled “Operator's Survey of Electrical Face Equipment.” Forms may be obtained from any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office. Separate forms shall be filed for each mine. Copies one and two of the completed form shall be filed with the Coal Mine District Manager for the district in which each mine is located on or before May 30, 1970. An operator must list all electric face equipment being used at each mine as of the time of filing, all such equipment being repaired, and all standby electric equipment stored at or in the mine which the operator intends to use as face equipment.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.504
Permissibility of new, replacement, used, reconditioned, additional, and rebuilt electric face equipment.
On and after March 30, 1971, all new, replacement, used, reconditioned, and additional electric face equipment used in any mine referred to in §§ 75.500, 75.501, and 75.503 shall be permissible and shall be maintained in a permissible condition, and in the event of any major overhaul of any item of electric face equipment in use on or after March 30, 1971, such equipment shall be put in, and thereafter maintained in, a permissible condition, unless in the opinion of the Secretary, such equipment or necessary replacement parts are not available.
[38 FR 4975, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.505
Mines classed gassy; use and maintenance of permissible electric face equipment.

# [Statutory Provision]
Any coal mine which, prior to March 30, 1970, was classed gassy under any provision of law and was required to use permissible electric face equipment and to maintain such equipment in a permissible condition shall continue to
use such equipment and to maintain such equipment in such condition.
§ 75.506
Electric face equipment; requirements for permissibility.
(a) Electric-driven mine equipment and accessories manufactured on or after March 30, 1973, will be permissible electric face equipment only (1) if they are fabricated, assembled, or built under an approval, or any extension thereof, issued by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration in accordance with schedule 2G, or any subsequent Bureau of Mines schedule promulgated by the Secretary after March 30, 1970, which amends, modifies, or supersedes the permissibility requirements of schedule 2G, and (2) if they are maintained in a permissible condition.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this § 75.506 electric-driven mine equipment and accessories manufactured prior to March 30, 1973, will be permissible electric face equipment (1) if they were fabricated, assembled, or built under an approval, or any extension thereof, issued by the Bureau of Mines in accordance with the schedules set forth below, and (2) if they are maintained in a permissible condition.
Bureau of Mines Schedule 2D, May 23, 1936;
Bureau of Mines Schedule 2E, February 15, 1945;
Bureau of Mines Schedule 2F, August 3, 1955; and
Bureau of Mines Schedule 2G, March 19, 1968.
Copies of these schedules are available at all MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district offices.
(c) Electric driven mine equipment and accessories bearing the Bureau of Mines approval numbers listed in Appendix A to this subpart are permissible electric face equipment only if they are maintained in a permissible condition.
(d) The following equipment will be permissible electric face equipment only if it is approved under the appropriate parts of this chapter, or former Bureau of Mines' approval schedules, and if it is in permissible condition:
(1) Multiple-Shot Blasting Units, part 7 subpart D;
(2) Electric Cap Lamps, part 19;
(3) Electric Mine Lamps Other than Standard Cap Lamps, part 20;
(4) Flame Safety Lamps;
(5) Portable Methane Detectors, part 22;
(6) Telephone and Signaling Devices, part 23;
(7) Single-Shot Blasting Units;
(8) Lighting Equipment for Illuminating Underground Workings;
(9) Methane-Monitoring Systems, part 27; and
(10) Continuous Duty, Warning Light, Portable Methane Detectors, 30 CFR part 29 contained in the 30 CFR, parts 1-199, edition, revised as of July 1, 1999.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 63 FR 47119, Sept. 3, 1998; 64 FR 43283, Aug. 10, 1999; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.506-1
Electric face equipment; permissible condition; maintenance requirements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, electric face equipment which meets the requirements for permissibility set forth in § 75.506 will be considered to be in permissible condition only if it is maintained so as to meet the requirements for permissibility set forth in the Bureau of Mines schedule under which such electric face equipment was initially approved, or, if the equipment has been modified, it is maintained so as to meet the requirements of the schedule under which such modification was approved.
(b) Electric face equipment bearing the Bureau of Mines approval number listed in Appendix A of this subpart will be considered to be in permissible condition only if it is maintained so as to meet the requirements for permissibility set forth in Bureau of Mines Schedule 2D or, if such equipment has been modified, it is maintained so as to meet the requirements of the schedule under which the modification was approved.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, where the minimum requirements for permissibility set forth in the appropriate Bureau of Mines schedule under which such equipment or modifications were approved have been superseded by the requirements of this Part 75, the latter requirements shall be applicable.
§ 75.507
Power connection points.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Except where permissible power connection units are used, all power-connection points outby the last open crosscut shall be in intake air.
§ 75.507-1
Electric equipment other than power-connection points; outby the last open crosscut; return air; permissibility requirements.
(a) All electric equipment, other than power-connection points, used in return air outby the last open crosscut in any coal mine shall be permissible except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in any coal mine where nonpermissible electric face equipment may be taken into or used inby the last open crosscut until March 30, 1974, such nonpermissible electric face equipment may be used in return air outby the last open crosscut.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in any coal mine where a permit for noncompliance is in effect, nonpermissible electric face equipment specified in such permit for noncompliance may be used in return air outby the last open crosscut for the duration of such permit.
[38 FR 4975, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.508
Map of electrical system.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The location and the electrical rating of all stationary electric apparatus in connection with the mine electric system, including permanent cables, switchgear, rectifying substations, transformers, permanent pumps, and trolley wires and trolley feeder wires, and settings of all direct-current circuit breakers protecting underground trolley circuits, shall be shown on a mine map. Any changes made in a location, electric rating, or setting shall be promptly shown on the map when the change is made. Such map shall be available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to the miners in such mine.
§ 75.508-1
Mine tracks.
When mine track is used as a conductor of a trolley system, the location of such track shall be shown on the map required by § 75.508, with a notation of the number of rails and the size of such track expressed in pounds per yard.
§ 75.508-2
Changes in electric system map; recording.
Changes made in the location, electrical rating or setting within the mine electrical system shall be recorded on the map of such system no later than the end of the next workday following completion of such changes.
§ 75.509
Electric power circuit and electric equipment; deenergization.

# [Statutory Provisions]
All power circuits and electric equipment shall be deenergized before work is done on such circuits and equipment, except when necessary for trouble shooting or testing.
§ 75.510
Energized trolley wires; repair.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Energized trolley wires may be repaired only by a person trained to perform electrical work and to maintain electrical equipment and the operator of a mine shall require that such person wear approved and tested insulated shoes and wireman's gloves.
§ 75.510-1
Repair of energized trolley wires; training.
The training referred to in § 75.510 must include training in the repair and maintenance of live trolley wires, and in the hazards involved in making such repairs, and in the limitations of protective clothing used to protect against such hazards.
§ 75.511
Low-, medium-, or high-voltage distribution circuits and equipment; repair.

# [Statutory Provision]
No electrical work shall be performed on low-, medium-, or high-voltage distribution circuits or equipment, except by a qualified person or by a person
trained to perform electrical work and to maintain electrical equipment under the direct supervision of a qualified person. Disconnecting devices shall be locked out and suitably tagged by the persons who perform such work, except that in cases where locking out is not possible, such devices shall be opened and suitably tagged by such persons. Locks or tags shall be removed only by the persons who installed them or, if such persons are unavailable, by persons authorized by the operator or his agent.
§ 75.511-1
Qualified person.
To be a qualified person within the meaning of § 75.511, an individual must meet the requirements of § 75.153.
§ 75.512
Electric equipment; examination, testing and maintenance.

# [Statutory Provision]
All electric equipment shall be frequently examined, tested, and properly maintained by a qualified person to assure safe operating conditions. When a potentially dangerous condition is found on electric equipment, such equipment shall be removed from service until such condition is corrected. A record of such examinations shall be kept and made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to the miners in such mine.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.512-1
Qualified person.
To be a qualified person within the meaning of § 75.512, an individual must meet the requirements of § 75.153.
§ 75.512-2
Frequency of examinations.
The examinations and tests required by § 75.512 shall be made at least weekly. Permissible equipment shall be examined to see that it is in permissible condition.
§ 75.513
Electric conductor; capacity and insulation.

# [Statutory Provision]
All electric conductors shall be sufficient in size and have adequate current carrying capacity and be of such construction that a rise in temperature resulting from normal operation will not damage the insulating materials.
§ 75.513-1
Electric conductor; size.
An electric conductor is not of sufficient size to have adequate carrying capacity if it is smaller than is provided for in the National Electric Code, 1968. In addition, equipment and trailing cables that are required to be permissible must meet the requirements of the appropriate schedules of the Bureau of Mines.
§ 75.514
Electrical connections or splices; suitability.

# [Statutory Provision]
All electrical connections or splices in conductors shall be mechanically and electrically efficient, and suitable connectors shall be used. All electrical connections or splices in insulated wire shall be reinsulated at least to the same degree of protection as the remainder of the wire.
§ 75.515
Cable fittings; suitability.

# [Statutory Provision]
Cables shall enter metal frames of motors, splice boxes, and electric compartments only through proper fittings. When insulated wires other than cables pass through metal frames, the holes shall be substantially bushed with insulated bushings.
§ 75.516
Power wires; support.

# [Statutory Provision]
All power wires (except trailing cables on mobile equipment, specially designed cables conducting high-voltage power to underground rectifying equipment or transformers, or bare or insulated ground and return wires) shall be supported on well-insulated insulators and shall not contact combustible material, roof, or ribs.
§ 75.516-1
Installed insulators.
Well-insulated insulators is interpreted to mean well-installed insulators. Insulated J-hooks may be used to suspend insulated power cables
for temporary installation not exceeding 6 months and for permanent installation of control cables such as may be used along belt conveyors.
§ 75.516-2
Communication wires and cables; installation; insulation; support.
(a) All communication wires shall be supported on insulated hangers or insulated J-hooks.
(b) All communication cables shall be insulated as required by § 75.517-1, and shall either be supported on insulated or uninsulated hangers or J-hooks, or securely attached to messenger wires, or buried, or otherwise protected against mechanical damage in a manner approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative.
(c) All communication wires and cables installed in track entries shall, except when a communication cable is buried in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, be installed on the side of the entry opposite to trolley wires and trolley feeder wires. Additional insulation shall be provided for communication circuits at points where they pass over or under any power conductor.
(d) For purposes of this section, communication cable means two or more insulated conductors covered by an additional abrasion-resistant covering.
[38 FR 4975, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.517
Power wires and cables; insulation and protection.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Power wires and cables, except trolley wires, trolley feeder wires, and bare signal wires, shall be insulated adequately and fully protected.
§ 75.517-1
Power wires and cables; insulation and protection.
Power wires and cables installed on or after March 30, 1970, shall have insulation with a dielectric strength at least equal to the voltage of the circuit.
§ 75.517-2
Plans for insulation of existing bare power wires and cables.
(a) On or before December 31, 1970, plans for the insulation of existing bare power wires and cables installed prior to March 30, 1970, shall be filed with the District Manager of the Coal Mine Safety District in which the mine is located to permit approval and prompt implementation of such plans.
(b) The appropriate District Manager shall notify the operator in writing of the approval of a proposed insulation plan. If revisions are required for approval, the changes required will be specified.
(c) An insulation plan shall include the following information:
(1) Name and address of the company, the mine and the responsible officials;
(2) Map or diagram indicating location of power wires and cables required to be insulated;
(3) Total length of bare power wires and cables required to be insulated;
(4) Schedule for the replacement or insulation of bare power wires and cables;
(5) Type of insulation to be used and the voltage rating as indicated by the manufacturer.
(d) The District Manager shall be guided by the following criteria in approving insulation plans on a mine-by-mine basis. Insulation not conforming to these criteria may be approved provided the operator can satisfy the Mine Safety and Health Administration that the insulation will provide no less than the same measure of protection.
(1) Insulation shall be adequate for the applied voltage of the circuit.
(2) When tubing is used to insulate existing power wires and cables, it shall have a dielectric strength at least equal to the voltage of the circuit. When the tubing is split for purposes of installation, the joints shall be effectively sealed. The butt ends may be sealed with a moisture resistant insulating tape.
(3) When tape is used to insulate existing power wires and cables, it shall be applied half-lapped and one thickness of the tape shall have a dielectric strength at least equal to the voltage of the circuit. The tape shall be self-adhesive and moisture resistant.
§ 75.518
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection.

# [Statutory Provision]
Automatic circuit-breaking devices or fuses of the correct type and capacity shall be installed so as to protect all electric equipment and circuits against short circuit and overloads. Three-phase motors on all electric equipment shall be provided with overload protection that will deenergize all three phases in the event that any phase is overloaded.
§ 75.518-1
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection; minimum requirements.
A device to provide either short circuit protection or protection against overload which does not conform to the provisions of the National Electric Code, 1968, does not meet the requirement of § 75.518. In addition, such devices on electric face equipment and trailing cables that are required to be permissible must meet the requirements of the applicable schedules of the Bureau of Mines.
§ 75.518-2
Incandescent lamps, overload and short circuit protection.
Incandescent lamps installed along haulageways and at other locations, not contacting combustible material, and powered from trolley or direct current feeder circuits, need not be provided with separate short circuit or overload protection, if the lamp is not more than 8 feet in distance from such circuits.
§ 75.519
Main power circuits; disconnecting switches.

# [Statutory Provision]
In all main power circuits, disconnecting switches shall be installed underground within 500 feet of the bottoms of shafts and boreholes through which main power circuits enter the underground area of the mine and within 500 feet of all other places where main power circuits enter the underground area of the mine.
§ 75.519-1
Main power circuits; disconnecting switches; locations.
Section 75.519 requires (a) that a disconnecting switch be installed on the surface at a point within 500 feet of the place where the main power circuit enters the underground area of a mine, and (b) that, in an instance on which a main power circuit enters the underground area through a shaft or borehole, a disconnecting switch be installed underground within 500 feet of the bottom of the shaft or borehole.
§ 75.520
Electric equipment; switches.

# [Statutory Provision]
All electric equipment shall be provided with switches or other controls that are safely designed, constructed, and installed.
§ 75.521
Lightning arresters; ungrounded and exposed power conductors and telephone wires.
Each ungrounded, exposed power conductor and each ungrounded, exposed telephone wire that leads underground shall be equipped with suitable lightning arresters of approved type within 100 feet of the point where the circuit enters the mine. Lightning arresters shall be connected to a low resistance grounding medium on the surface which shall be separated from neutral grounds by a distance of not less than 25 feet.
[38 FR 4975, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.522
Lighting devices.

# [Statutory Provision]
No device for the purpose of lighting any coal mine which has not been approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative shall be permitted in such mine.
§ 75.522-1
Incandescent and fluorescent lamps.
(a) Except for areas of a coal mine inby the last open crosscut, incandescent lamps may be used to illuminate underground areas. When incandescent lamps are used in a track entry or belt entry or near track entries to illuminate special areas other than structures, the lamps shall be installed in
weather-proof sockets located in positions such that the lamps will not come in contact with any combustible material. Lamps used in all other places must be of substantial construction and be fitted with a glass enclosure.
(b) Incandescent lamps within glass enclosures or fluorescent lamps may be used inside underground structures (except magazines used for the storage of explosives and detonators). In underground structures lighting circuits shall consist of cables installed on insulators or insulated wires installed in metallic conduit or metallic armor.
§ 75.523
Electric face equipment; deenergization.

# [Statutory Provision]
An authorized representative of the Secretary may require in any mine that electric face equipment be provided with devices that will permit the equipment to be deenergized quickly in the event of an emergency.
§ 75.523-1
Deenergization of self-propelled electric face equipment installation requirements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all self-propelled electric face equipment which is used in the active workings of each underground coal mine on and after March 1, 1973, shall, in accordance with the schedule of time specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, be provided with a device that will quickly deenergize the tramming motors of the equipment in the event of an emergency. The requirements of this paragraph (a) shall be met as follows:
(1) On and after December 15, 1974, for self-propelled cutting machines, shuttle cars, battery-powered machines, and roof drills and bolters;
(2) On and after February 15, 1975, for all other types of self-propelled electric face equipment.
(b) Self-propelled electric face equipment that is equipped with a substantially constructed cab which meets the requirements of this part, shall not be required to be provided with a device that will quickly deenergize the tramming motors of the equipment in the event of an emergency.
(c) An operator may apply to the Director of Technical Support, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; for approval of the installation of devices to be used in lieu of devices that will quickly deenergize the tramming motors of self-propelled electric face equipment in the event of an emergency. The Director of Technical Support may approve such devices if he determines that the performance thereof will be no less effective than the performance requirements specified in § 75.523-2.
[38 FR 3407, Feb. 6, 1973, as amended at 39 FR 27557, July 30, 1974; 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 47 FR 28096, June 29, 1982; 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.523-2
Deenergization of self-propelled electric face equipment; performance requirements.
(a) Deenergization of the tramming motors of self-propelled electric face equipment, required by paragraph (a) of § 75.523-1, shall be provided by:
(1) Mechanical actuation of an existing pushbutton emergency stopswitch,
(2) Mechanical actuation of an existing lever emergency stopswitch, or
(3) The addition of a separate electromechanical switch assembly.
(b) The existing emergency stopswitch or additional switch assembly shall be actuated by a bar or lever which shall extend a sufficient distance in each direction to permit quick deenergization of the tramming motors of self-propelled electric face equipment from all locations from which the equipment can be operated.
(c) Movement of not more than 2 inches of the actuating bar or lever resulting from the application of not more than 15 pounds of force upon contact with any portion of the equipment operator's body at any point along the length of the actuating bar or lever shall cause deenergization of the tramming motors of the self-propelled electric face equipment.
[38 FR 3406, Feb. 6, 1973; 38 FR 4394, Feb. 14, 1973]
§ 75.523-3
Automatic emergency-parking brakes.
(a) Except for personnel carriers, rubber-tired, self-propelled electric haulage equipment used in the active workings of underground coal mines shall be equipped with automatic emergency-parking brakes in accordance with the following schedule.
(1) On and after May 23, 1989—
(i) All new equipment ordered; and
(ii) All equipment originally furnished with or retrofitted with automatic emergency-parking brakes which meet the requirements of this section.
(2) On and after May 23, 1991, all other equipment.
(b) Automatic emergency-parking brakes shall—
(1) Be activated immediately by the emergency deenergization device required by 30 CFR 75.523-1 and 75.523-2;
(2) Engage automatically within 5.0 seconds when the equipment is deenergized;
(3) Safely bring the equipment when fully loaded to a complete stop on the maximum grade on which it is operated;
(4) Hold the equipment stationary despite any contraction of brake parts, exhaustion of any non-mechanical source of energy, or leakage; and
(5) Release only by a manual control that does not operate any other equipment function.
(c) Automatic emergency-parking brakes shall include a means in the equipment operator's compartment to—
(1) Apply the brakes manually without deenergizing the equipment; and
(2) Release and reengage the brakes without energizing the equipment.
(d) On and after November 24, 1989, rubber-tired, self-propelled electric face equipment not covered by paragraph (a) of this section shall be equipped with a means incorporated on the equipment and operable from each tramming station to hold the equipment stationary—
(1) On the maximum grade on which it is operated; and
(2) Despite any contraction of components, exhaustion of any non-mechanical source of energy, or leakage.
(e) The brake systems required by paragraphs (a) or (d) of this section shall be applied when the equipment operator is not at the controls of the equipment, except during movement of disabled equipment.
[54 FR 12412, Mar. 24, 1989]
§ 75.524
Electric face equipment; electric equipment used in return air outby the last open crosscut; maximum level of alternating or direct electric current between frames of equipment.
The maximum level of alternating or direct electric current that exists between the frames of any two units of electric face equipment that come in contact with each other in the working places of a coal mine, or between the frames of any two units of electric equipment that come in contact with each other in return air outby the last open crosscut, shall not exceed one ampere as determined from the voltage measured across a 0.1 ohm resistor connected between the frames of such equipment.
[38 FR 29998, Oct. 31, 1973]
Pt. 75, Subpt. F, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 75—List of Permissible Electric Face Equipment Approved by the Bureau of Mines Prior to May 23, 1936
Motor-Driven Mine Equipment
(Approved Under Schedules 2, 2A, 2B, and 2C)
Approval No.
Date
Air Compressors
128
March 21, 1927.
128A
July 16, 1926.
Coal Drills and Drilling Machines
Hand Drills
109
September 19, 1922.
154
August 1, 1928.
184
February 7, 1930.
227
July 29, 1931.
254
July 15, 1933.
Post Drills
119
April 15, 1925.
119A
Do.
225
July 10, 1931.
225A
Do.
228
August 12, 1931.
228A
February 17, 1932.
230
August 20, 1931.
230A
Do.
237
December 1, 1931.
237A
Do.
Drilling Machines
147
February 8, 1928.
147A
Do.
176
September 9, 1929.
176A
Do.
Loading and Conveying Equipment
loading machines
Unmounted Type
122
January 8, 1926.
122A
Do.
Caterpillar-Mounted Type
150
May 11, 1928.
186
March 15, 1930.
222
May 8, 1931.
222A
July 28, 1931.
229
August 17, 1931.
229A
Do.
235
November 27, 1931.
235A
October 29, 1931.
278
January 17, 1935.
278A
Do.
283A
March 12, 1935.
284A
Do.
285A
Do.
294
September 18, 1935.
300A
May 6, 1936.
127
July 16, 1926.
127A
September 23, 1927.
Track-Mounted Type
194
June 6, 1930.
194A
Do.
217
February 27, 1931.
217A
Do.
276
January 11, 1935.
277
January 17, 1935.
282A
March 12, 1935.
291A
July 3, 1935.
Pit-Car Loaders
167
March 27, 1929.
167A
Do.
175
July 26, 1929.
175A
June 24, 1929.
250
December 10, 1932.
250A
Do.
252A
February 20, 1933.
Conveyors
Belt Type
236
November 19, 1931.
287A
March 12, 1935.
296A
January 6, 1936.
Chain Type
151
May 19, 1928.
209
December 2, 1930.
240
March 12, 1932.
240A
Do.
298A
March 3, 1936.
Power Units for Conveyors
265
February 12, 1934.
265A
March 19, 1934.
390A
March 23, 1934.
Shaker Type
247
October 21, 1932.
257A
August 11, 1933.
262A
December 8, 1933.
271
May 20, 1935.
271A
October 17, 1934.
274A
December 13, 1934.
286A
March 12, 1935.
295
September 20, 1935.
299A
April 9, 1936.
Scraper-type Loaders
138
August 5, 1927.
138A
Do.
196
September 29, 1930.
196A
July 26, 1930.
226
July 27, 1931.
255
July 31, 1933.
256
Do.
Mining Machines, Machinery-Moving Equipment, Miscellaneous Trucks, and Water Spray Supply Units
mining machines
Shortwall Machines
103
November 2, 1917.
103A
Do.
105
February 9, 1922.
105A
Do.
106
Do.
106A
Do.
107
Do.
107A
Do.
108
Do.
108A
Do.
111
October 16, 1922.
111A
Do.
113
November 4, 1924.
113A
Do.
114
February 7, 1925.
114A
Do.
115
Do.
115A
Do.
153
July 31, 1928.
153A
Do.
193
June 3, 1930.
193A
Do.
197
July 31, 1930.
197A
Do.
198
August 1, 1930.
198A
Do.
201
September 8, 1930.
201A
Do.
204
October 13, 1930.
204A
December 13, 1930.
223
May 13, 1931.
223A
Do.
241
March 18, 1932.
241A
Do.
258
August 15, 1933.
259A
August 16, 1933.
260A
August 17, 1933.
273
November 30, 1934.
288
March 27, 1935.
288A
Do.
292
September 11, 1935.
292A
Do.
293A
Do.
Longwall Machines
185
February 24, 1930.
185A
Do.
218
March 10, 1931.
218A
Do.
246
August 19, 1932.
246A
Do.
261
September 12, 1933.
Track or caterpillar mounted
112
March 13, 1924.
112A
Do.
118
March 12, 1925.
118A
Do.
125
April 26, 1926.
125A
Do.
172
April 30, 1929.
172A
Do.
188
April 15, 1930.
188A
Do.
207
November 14, 1930.
207A
Do.
216
February 12, 1931.
216A
Do.
231
August 31, 1931.
231A
Do.
242
April 7, 1932.
244
June 18, 1932.
244A
September 20, 1932.
253A
February 25, 1933.
267
June 27, 1934.
268A
July 25, 1934.
269A
September 24, 1934.
280A
March 4, 1935.
297
January 27, 1936.
297A
Do.
Mine Pumps
140
November 1, 1927.
140A
Do.
143
Do.
143A
Do.
144
Do.
144A
Do.
199
August 18, 1930.
199A
Do.
208
November 29, 1930.
210
December 15, 1930.
210A
Do.
211
December 17, 1930.
211A
Do.
213
December 29, 1930.
213A
Do.
214
January 2, 1931.
214A
Do.
215
Do.
215A
Do.
248
October 31, 1932.
248A
November 23, 1932.
264
January 31, 1934.
264A
Do.
272
October 23, 1934.
272A
Do.
Rock-Dusting Machines
130
November 5, 1926.
137
July 2, 1927.
146
January 20, 1928.
146A
April 3, 1928.
180
October 30, 1929.
180A
January 17, 1930.
206
November 12, 1930.
279
February 14, 1935.
Room and Car-Spotting Hoists
116
February 13, 1925.
116A
Do.
164
January 21, 1931.
164A
Do.
165
Do.
165A
Do.
169
April 5, 1929.
169A
February 26, 1934.
190
April 20, 1930.
251A
January 16, 1933.
263
January 11, 1934.
266A
February 27, 1934.
Storage-Battery Locomotives and Power Trucks
(Approved under Schedules 15, 2C, 2D, and 2E)
Gathering Locomotives
1501
October 11, 1921.
1502
November 13, 1922.
1503
March 24, 1923.
1505
April 5, 1924.
1507
August 20, 1925.
1508
March 21, 1925.
1509
September 25, 1925.
1511
November 10, 1925.
1512
November 11, 1925.
1513
February 25, 1926.
1516
December 28, 1926.
1517
February 10, 1927.
1520
May 27, 1929.
1521
June 13, 1930.
1522
September 12, 1930.
1523
December 19, 1930.
1525
July 25, 1934.
1526
December 20, 1935.
Tandem Locomotive
1518
November 21, 1927.
Power Trucks
1506
May 5, 1924.
1505A
June 21, 1926.
1510C
December 31, 1926.
1514
December 18, 1926.
1515
December 28, 1926.
1512C
September 13, 1928.
1519C
April 6, 1929.
1524C
June 25, 1934.
Junction, Distribution, and Splice Boxes
(Approved under Schedules 2D and 2E)
Junction Boxes
400
June 16, 1928.
400A
August 5, 1925.
401
May 11, 1927.
401A
Do.
402
Do.
402A
Do.
403
April 14, 1931.
403A
Do.
405A
December 4, 1933.

# Subpart G—Trailing Cables
§ 75.600
Trailing cables; flame resistance.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cables used in coal mines shall meet the requirements established by the Secretary for flame-resistant cables.
§ 75.600-1
Approved cables; flame resistance.
Cables shall be accepted or approved by MSHA as flame resistant.
[57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992]
§ 75.601
Short circuit protection of trailing cables.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Short circuit protection for trailing cables shall be provided by an automatic circuit breaker or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary of adequate current-interrupting capacity in each ungrounded conductor. Disconnecting devices used to disconnect power from trailing cables shall be plainly marked and identified and such devices shall be equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the power is disconnected.
§ 75.601-1
Short circuit protection; ratings and settings of circuit breakers.
Circuit breakers providing short circuit protection for trailing cables shall be set so as not to exceed the maximum allowable instantaneous settings specified in this section; however, higher settings may be permitted by an authorized representative of the Secretary when he has determined that special applications are justified:
Conductor size AWG or MGM
Maximum allowable circuit breaker instantaneous setting (amperes)
14
50
12
75
10
150
8
200
6
300
4
500
3
600
2
800
1
1,000
1/0
1,250
2/0
1,500
3/0
2,000
4/0
2,500
250
2,500
300
2,500
350
2,500
400
2,500
450
2,500
500
2,500
§ 75.601-2
Short circuit protection; use of fuses; approval by the Secretary.
Fuses shall not be employed to provide short circuit protection for trailing cables unless specifically approved by the Secretary.
§ 75.601-3
Short circuit protection; dual element fuses; current ratings; maximum values.
Dual element fuses having adequate current-interrupting capacity shall meet the requirements for short circuit protection of trailing cables as provided in § 75.601, however, the current ratings of such devices shall not exceed the maximum values specified in this section:
Conductor size (AWG or MGM)
Single conductor cable
Ampacity
Max. fuse rating
Two conductor cable
Ampacity
Max. fuse rating
14
15
15
12
20
20
10
25
25
8
60
60
50
50
6
85
90
65
70
4
110
110
90
90
3
130
150
105
110
2
150
150
120
125
1
170
175
140
150
1/0
200
200
170
175
2/0
235
250
195
200
3/0
275
300
225
225
4/0
315
350
260
300
250
350
350
285
300
300
395
400
310
350
350
445
450
335
350
400
480
500
360
400
450
515
600
385
400
500
545
600
415
450
§ 75.602
Trailing cable junctions.

# [Statutory Provision]
When two or more trailing cables junction to the same distribution center, means shall be provided to assure against connecting a trailing cable to the wrong size circuit breaker.
§ 75.603
Temporary splice of trailing cable.

# [Statutory Provision]
One temporary splice may be made in any trailing cable. Such trailing cable may only be used for the next 24-hour period. No temporary splice shall be made in a trailing cable within 25 feet of the machine, except cable reel equipment. Temporary splices in trailing cables shall be made in a workmanlike manner and shall be mechanically strong and well insulated. Trailing cables or hand cables which have exposed wires or which have splices that heat or spark under load shall not be used. As used in this section, the term “splice” means the mechanical joining of one or more conductors that have been severed.
§ 75.604
Permanent splicing of trailing cables.

# [Statutory Provisions]
When permanent splices in trailing cables are made, they shall be:
(a) Mechanically strong with adequate electrical conductivity and flexibility;
(b) Effectively insulated and sealed so as to exclude moisture; and
(c) Vulcanized or otherwise treated with suitable materials to provide flame-resistant qualities and good bonding to the outer jacket.
(d) Made using splice kits accepted or approved by MSHA as flame resistant.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 57 FR 61223, Dec. 23, 1992]
§ 75.605
Clamping of trailing cables to equipment.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cables shall be clamped to machines in a manner to protect the cables from damage and to prevent strain on the electrical connections.
§ 75.606
Protection of trailing cables.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cables shall be adequately protected to prevent damage by mobile equipment.
§ 75.607
Breaking trailing cable and power cable connections.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cable and power cable connections to junction boxes shall not be made or broken under load.

# Subpart H—Grounding
§ 75.700
Grounding metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors.

# [Statutory Provisions]
All metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors shall be electrically continuous throughout and shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.700-1
Approved methods of grounding.
Metallic sheaths, armors and conduits in resistance grounded systems where the enclosed conductors are a part of the system will be approved if a solid connection is made to the neutral conductor; in all other systems, the following methods of grounding will be approved:
(a) A solid connection to a borehole casing having low resistance to earth;
(b) A solid connection to metal waterlines having low resistance to earth;
(c) A solid connection to a grounding conductor, other than the neutral conductor of a resistance grounded system, extending to a low resistance ground field located on the surface;
(d) Any other method of grounding, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which ensures that there is no difference in potential between such metallic enclosures and the earth.
§ 75.701
Grounding metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment that can become “alive” through failure of insulation or by contact with energized parts shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.701-1
Approved methods of grounding of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems.
For purposes of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems, the following methods of grounding will be approved:
(a) A solid connection between the metallic frame, casing, or other metal enclosure and the grounded metallic sheath, armor, or conduit enclosing the power conductor feeding the electrical equipment enclosed;
(b) A solid connection to a borehole casing having low resistance to earth;
(c) A solid connection to metal waterlines having low resistance to earth;
(d) A solid connection to a grounding conductor extending to a low resistance ground field located on the surface;
(e) Any other method of grounding, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which ensures that there is no difference in potential between such metal enclosures and the earth.
§ 75.701-2
Approved method of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures receiving power from single-phase 110-220-volt circuit.
In instances where single-phase 110-220-volt circuits are used to feed electrical equipment, the only method of grounding that will be approved is the connection of all metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of such equipment to a separate grounding conductor which establishes a continuous connection to a grounded center tap of the transformer.
§ 75.701-3
Approved methods of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from direct current power systems with one polarity grounded.
For the purpose of grounding metallic frames, casings and enclosures of any electric equipment or device-receiving power from a direct-current power system with one polarity grounded, the following methods of grounding will be approved:
(a) A solid connection to the mine track;
(b) A solid connection to the grounded power conductor of the system;
(c) Silicon diode grounding; however, this method shall be employed only when such devices are installed in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of § 75.703-3; and
(d) Any other method, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which insures that there is no difference in potential between such metal enclosures and the earth.
§ 75.701-4
Grounding wires; capacity of wires.
Where grounding wires are used to ground metallic sheaths, armors, conduits, frames, casings, and other metallic enclosures, such grounding wires will be approved if:
(a) The cross-sectional area (size) of the grounding wire is at least one-half the cross-sectional area (size) of the power conductor where the power conductor used is No. 6 A.W.G., or larger.
(b) Where the power conductor used is less than No. 6 A.W.G., the cross-sectional area (size) of the grounding wire is equal to the cross-sectional area (size) of the power conductor.
§ 75.701-5
Use of grounding connectors.
The attachment of grounding wires to a mine track or other grounded power conductor will be approved if separate clamps, suitable for such purpose, are used and installed to provide a solid connection.
§ 75.702
Protection other than grounding.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Methods other than grounding which provide no less effective protection may be permitted by the Secretary or his authorized representative.
§ 75.702-1
Protection other than grounding; approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
Under this subpart no method other than grounding may be used to ensure against a difference in potential between metallic sheaths, armors and conduits, enclosing power conductors and frames, casings and metal enclosures of electric equipment, and the earth, unless approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.703
Grounding offtrack direct-current machines and the enclosures of related detached components.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The frames of all offtrack direct-current machines and the enclosures of related detached components shall be effectively grounded, or otherwise maintained at no less safe voltages, by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.703-1
Approved method of grounding.
In instances where the metal frames both of an offtrack direct-current machine and of the metal frames of its component parts are grounded to the same grounding medium the requirements of § 75.703 will be met.
§ 75.703-2
Approved grounding mediums.
For purposes of grounding offtrack direct-current machines, the following grounding mediums are approved:
(a) The grounded polarity of the direct-current power system feeding such machines; or,
(b) The alternating current grounding medium where such machines are fed by an ungrounded direct-current power system originating in a portable rectifier receiving its power from a section power center. However, when such a medium is used, a separate grounding conductor must be employed.
§ 75.703-3
Approved methods of grounding offtrack mobile, portable and stationary direct-current machines.
In grounding offtrack direct-current machines and the enclosures of their component parts, the following methods of grounding will meet the requirements of § 75.703:
(a) The use of a separate grounding conductor located within the trailing cable of mobile and portable equipment and connected between such equipment and the direct-current grounding medium;
(b) The use of a separate ground conductor located within the direct-current power cable feeding stationary equipment and connected between such stationary equipment and the direct-current grounding medium;
(c) The use of a separate external ground conductor connected between stationary equipment and the direct-current grounding medium; or,
(d) The use of silicon diodes; however, the installation of such devices shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(1) Installation of silicon diodes shall be restricted to electric equipment receiving power from a direct-current system with one polarity grounded;
(2) Where such diodes are used on circuits having a nominal voltage rating of 250, they must have a forward current rating of 400 amperes or more, and have a peak inverse voltage rating of 400 or more;
(3) Where such diodes are used on circuits having a nominal voltage rating of 550, they must have a forward current rating of 250 amperes or more, and have a peak inverse voltage rating of 800 or more;
(4) Where fuses approved by the Secretary are used at the outby end of a trailing cable connected to electrical equipment employing silicon diodes, the rating of such fuses must not exceed 150 percent of the nominal current rating of the grounding diodes;
(5) Where circuit breakers are used at the outby end of a trailing cable connected to electrical equipment employing silicon diodes, the instantaneous
trip setting shall not exceed 300 percent of the nominal current rating of the grounding diode;
(6) Overcurrent devices must be used and installed in such a manner that the operating coil circuit of the main contactor will open when a fault current with a value of 25 percent or less of the diode rating flows through the diode;
(7) The silicon diode installed must be suitable to the grounded polarity of the power system in which it is used and its threaded base must be solidly connected to the machine frame on which it is installed;
(8) In addition to the grounding diode, a polarizing diode must be installed in the machine control circuit to prevent operation of the machine when the polarity of a trailing cable is reversed;
(9) When installed on permissible equipment, all grounding diodes, overcurrent devices, and polarizing diodes must be placed in explosion proof compartments;
(10) When grounding diodes are installed on a continuous miner, their nominal diode current rating must be at least 750 amperes or more; and,
(11) All grounding diodes shall be tested, examined and maintained as electrical equipment in accordance with the provisions of § 75.512.
§ 75.703-4
Other methods of protecting offtrack direct-current equipment; approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
Other methods of maintaining safe voltage by preventing a difference between the frames of offtract direct-current machines and the earth must be approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.704
Grounding frames of stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The frames of all stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 75.704-1
Approved methods of grounding.
The methods of grounding stated in § 75.701-1 will also be approved with respect to the grounding of frames of high-voltage equipment referred to in § 75.704.
§ 75.705
Work on high-voltage lines; deenergizing and grounding.

# [Statutory Provisions]
High-voltage lines, both on the surface and underground, shall be deenergized and grounded before work is performed on them, except that repairs may be permitted, in the case of energized surface high-voltage lines, if such repairs are made by a qualified person in accordance with procedures and safeguards, including, but not limited to, a requirement that the operator of such mine provide, test, and maintain protective devices in making such repairs, to be prescribed by the Secretary prior to March 30, 1970.
§ 75.705-1
Work on high-voltage lines.
(a) Section 75.705 specifically prohibits work on energized high-voltage lines underground;
(b) No high-voltage line, either on the surface or underground, shall be regarded as deenergized for the purpose of performing work on it, until it has been determined by a qualified person (as provided in § 75.153) that such high-voltage line has been deenergized and grounded. Such qualified person shall by visual observation (1) determine that the disconnecting devices on the high-voltage circuit are in open position and (2) ensure that each ungrounded conductor of the high-voltage circuit upon which work is to be done is properly connected to the system-grounding medium. In the case of resistance grounded or solid wye-connected systems, the neutral wire is the system-grounding medium. In the case of an ungrounded power system, either the steel armor or conduit enclosing the system or a surface grounding field is a system grounding medium;
(c) No work shall be performed on any high-voltage line on the surface which is supported by any pole or structure which also supports other high-voltage lines until: (1) All lines
supported on the pole or structure are deenergized and grounded in accordance with all of the provisions of this section which apply to the repair of energized surface high-voltage lines; or (2) the provisions of §§ 75.705-2 through 75.705-10 have been complied with, with respect to all lines, which are supported on the pole or structure.
(d) Work may be performed on energized surface high-voltage lines only in accordance with the provisions of §§ 75.705-2 through 75.705-10, inclusive.
§ 75.705-2
Repairs to energized surface high-voltage lines.
An energized high-voltage surface line may be repaired only when
(a) The operator has determined that:
(1) Such repairs cannot be scheduled during a period when the power circuit could be properly deenergized and grounded;
(2) Such repairs will be performed on power circuits with a phase-to-phase nominal voltage no greater than 15,000 volts;
(3) Such repairs on circuits with a phase-to-phase nominal voltage of 5,000 volts or more will be performed only with the use of live line tools;
(4) Weather conditions will not interfere with such repairs or expose those persons assigned to such work to an imminent danger; and
(b) The operator has designated a person qualified under the provisions of § 75.154 as the person responsible for carrying out such repairs and such person, in order to ensure protection for himself and other qualified persons assigned to perform such repairs from the hazards of such repair, has prepared and filed with the operator:
(1) A general description of the nature and location of the damage or defect to be repaired;
(2) The general plan to be followed in making such repairs;
(3) A statement that a briefing of all qualified persons assigned to make such repairs was conducted informing them of the general plan, their individual assignments, and the dangers inherent in such assignments;
(4) A list of the proper protective equipment and clothing that will be provided; and
(5) Such other information as the person designated by the operator feels necessary to describe properly the means or methods to be employed in such repairs.
§ 75.705-3
Work on energized high-voltage surface lines; reporting.
Any operator designating and assigning qualified persons to perform repairs on energized high-voltage surface lines under the provisions of § 75.705-2 shall maintain a record of such repairs. Such record shall contain a notation of the time, date, location, and general nature of the repairs made, together with a copy of the information filed with the operator by the qualified person designated as responsible for performing such repairs.
§ 75.705-4
Simultaneous repairs.
When two or more persons are working on an energized high-voltage surface line simultaneously, and any one of them is within reach of another, such persons shall not be allowed to work on different phases or on equipment with different potentials.
§ 75.705-5
Installation of protective equipment.
Before repair work on energized high-voltage surface lines is begun, protective equipment shall be used to cover all bare conductors, ground wires, guys, telephone lines, and other attachments in proximity to the area of planned repairs. Such protective equipment shall be installed from a safe position below the conductors or other apparatus being covered. Each rubber protective device employed in the making of repairs shall have a dielectric strength of 20,000 volts, or more.
§ 75.705-6
Protective clothing; use and inspection.
All persons performing work on energized high-voltage surface lines shall wear protective rubber gloves, sleeves, and climber guards if climbers are worn. Protective rubber gloves shall not be worn wrong side out or without protective leather gloves. Protective devices worn by a person assigned to perform repairs on high-voltage surface lines shall be worn continuously from the time he leaves the ground until he
returns to the ground, and, if such devices are employed for extended periods, such person shall visually inspect the equipment assigned him for defects before each use and, in no case, less than twice each day.
§ 75.705-7
Protective equipment; inspection.
Each person shall visually inspect protective equipment and clothing provided him in connection with work on high-voltage surface lines before using such equipment and clothing, and any equipment or clothing containing any defect or damage shall be discarded and replaced with proper protective equipment or clothing prior to the performance of any electrical work on such lines.
§ 75.705-8
Protective equipment; testing and storage.
(a) All rubber protective equipment used on work on energized high-voltage surface lines shall be electrically tested by the operator in accordance with ASTM standards, Part 28, published February 1968, and such testing shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule:
(1) Rubber gloves, once each month;
(2) Rubber sleeves, once every 3 months;
(3) Rubber blankets, once every 6 months;
(4) Insulator hoods and line hose, once a year; and
(5) Other electric protective equipment, once a year.
(b) Rubber gloves shall not be stored wrong side out. Blankets shall be rolled when not in use, and line hose and insulator hoods shall be stored in their natural position and shape.
§ 75.705-9
Operating disconnecting or cutout switches.
Disconnecting or cutout switches on energized high-voltage surface lines shall be operated only with insulated sticks, fuse tongs, or pullers which are adequately insulated and maintained to protect the operator from the voltage to which he is exposed. When such switches are operated from the ground, the person operating such devices shall wear protective rubber gloves.
§ 75.705-10
Tying into energized high-voltage surface circuits.
If the work of forming an additional circuit by tying into an energized high-voltage surface line is performed from the ground, any person performing such work must wear and employ all of the protective equipment and clothing required under the provisions of §§ 75.705-5 and 75.705-6. In addition, the insulated stick used by such person must have been designed for such purpose and must be adequately insulated and be maintained to protect such person from the voltage to which he is exposed.
§ 75.705-11
Use of grounded messenger wires; ungrounded systems.
Solely for purposes of grounding ungrounded high-voltage power systems, grounded messenger wires used to suspend the cables of such systems may be used as a grounding medium.
§ 75.706
Deenergized underground power circuits; idle days—idle shifts.

# [Statutory Provisions]
When not in use, power circuits underground shall be deenergized on idle days and idle shifts, except that rectifiers and transformers may remain energized.

# Subpart I—Underground High-Voltage Distribution
§ 75.800
High-voltage circuits; circuit breakers.

# [Statutory Provisions]
High-voltage circuits entering the underground area of any coal mine shall be protected by suitable circuit breakers of adequate interrupting capacity which are properly tested and maintained as prescribed by the Secretary. Such breakers shall be equipped with devices to provide protection against under-voltage grounded phase, short circuit, and overcurrent.
§ 75.800-1
Circuit breakers; location.
Circuit breakers protecting high-voltage circuits entering an underground area of any coal mine shall be located on the surface and in no case
installed either underground or within a drift.
§ 75.800-2
Approved circuit schemes.
The following circuit schemes will be regarded as providing the necessary protection to the circuits required by § 75.800:
(a) Ground check relays may be used for undervoltage protection if the relay coils are designed to trip the circuit breaker when line voltage decreases to 40 percent to 60 percent of the nominal line voltage;
(b) Ground trip relays on resistance grounded systems will be acceptable as grounded phase protection;
(c) One circuit breaker may be used to protect two or more branch circuits, if the circuit breaker is adjusted to afford overcurrent protection for the smallest conductor.
§ 75.800-3
Testing, examination and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
(a) Circuit breakers and their auxiliary devices protecting underground high-voltage circuits shall be tested and examined at least once each month by a person qualified as provided in § 75.153;
(b) Tests shall include: (1) Breaking continuity of the ground check conductor, where ground check monitoring is used; and
(2) Actuating at least two (2) of the auxiliary protective relays.
(c) Examination shall include visual observation of all components of the circuit breaker and its auxiliary devices, and such repairs or adjustments as are indicated by such tests and examinations shall be carried out immediately.
§ 75.800-4
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
(a)
Recordkeeping.
The operator shall make a record of each test, examination, repair, or adjustment of all circuit breakers protecting high-voltage circuits which enter any underground area of the mine.
(b)
Record security.
