The jurisdiction must submit a certification that it will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601), and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(7)
Section 3.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification that it will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 75.
(b)
Community Development Block Grant program.
For jurisdictions that seek funding under CDBG, the following certifications are required:
(1)
Citizen participation.
Each jurisdiction must certify that it is in full compliance and following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of § 91.105.
(2)
Community development plan.
A certification that this consolidated housing and community development plan identifies community development and housing needs and specifies both short-term and long-term community development objectives that have been developed in accordance with the primary objective of the statute authorizing the CDBG program, as described in 24 CFR 570.2, and requirements of this part and 24 CFR part 570.
(3)
Following a plan.
A certification that the jurisdiction is following a current consolidated plan (or Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy) that has been approved by HUD.
(4)
Use of funds.
A certification that the jurisdiction has complied with the following criteria:
(i) With respect to activities expected to be assisted with CDBG funds, the Action Plan has been developed so as to give the maximum feasible priority to activities that will benefit low- and moderate-income families or aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight. The plan may also include CDBG-assisted activities that are certified to be designed to meet other community development needs having particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community where other financial
resources are not available to meet such needs;
(ii) The aggregate use of CDBG funds, including section 108 guaranteed loans, during a period specified by the jurisdiction, consisting of one, two, or three specific consecutive program years, shall principally benefit low- and moderate-income families in a manner that ensures that at least 70 percent of the amount is expended for activities that benefit such persons during the designated period (see 24 CFR 570.3 for definition of “CDBG funds”); and
(iii) The jurisdiction will not attempt to recover any capital costs of public improvements assisted with CDBG funds, including Section 108 loan guaranteed funds, by assessing any amount against properties owned and occupied by persons of low- and moderate-income, including any fee charged or assessment made as a condition of obtaining access to such public improvements. However, if CDBG funds are used to pay the proportion of a fee or assessment attributable to the capital costs of public improvements (assisted in part with CDBG funds) financed from other revenue sources, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than CDBG funds. In addition, with respect to properties owned and occupied by moderate-income (but not low-income) families, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than CDBG funds if the jurisdiction certifies that it lacks CDBG funds to cover the assessment.
(5)
Excessive force.
A certification that the jurisdiction has adopted and is enforcing:
(i) A policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations; and
(ii) A policy of enforcing applicable State and local laws against physically barring entrance to or exit from, a facility or location that is the subject of such non-violent civil rights demonstrations within its jurisdiction.
(6)
Compliance with anti-discrimination laws.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification that the grant will be conducted and administered in conformity with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619), and implementing regulations.
(7)
Compliance with lead-based paint procedures.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification that its activities concerning lead-based paint will comply with the requirements of part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, and R of this title.
(8)
Compliance with laws.
A certification that the jurisdiction will comply with applicable laws.
(c)
ESG.
For jurisdictions that seek ESG funding under 24 CFR part 576, the following certifications are required:
(1) If an emergency shelter's rehabilitation costs exceed 75 percent of the value of the building before rehabilitation, the jurisdiction will maintain the building as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 10 years after the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed rehabilitation;
(2) If the cost to convert a building into an emergency shelter exceeds 75 percent of the value of the building after conversion, the jurisdiction will maintain the building as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 10 years after the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed conversion;
(3) In all other cases where ESG funds are used for renovation, the jurisdiction will maintain the building as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 3 years after the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed renovation;
(4) In the case of assistance involving shelter operations or essential services related to street outreach or emergency shelter, the jurisdiction will provide services or shelter to homeless individuals and families for the period during which the ESG assistance is provided, without regard to a particular site or structure, so long as the jurisdiction serves the same type of persons (
e.g.,
families with children,
unaccompanied youth, disabled individuals, or victims of domestic violence) or persons in the same geographic area;
(5) Any renovation carried out with ESG assistance shall be sufficient to ensure that the building involved is safe and sanitary;
(6) The jurisdiction will assist homeless individuals in obtaining permanent housing, appropriate supportive services (including medical and mental health treatment, victim services, counseling, supervision, and other services essential for achieving independent living), and other Federal, State, local, and private assistance available for these individuals;
(7) The jurisdiction will obtain matching amounts required under 24 CFR 576.201;
(8) The jurisdiction has established and is implementing procedures to ensure the confidentiality of records pertaining to any individual provided family violence prevention or treatment services under any project assisted under the ESG program, including protection against the release of the address or location of any family violence shelter project, except with the written authorization of the person responsible for the operation of that shelter;
(9) To the maximum extent practicable, the jurisdiction will involve, through employment, volunteer services, or otherwise, homeless individuals and families in constructing, renovating, maintaining, and operating facilities assisted under the ESG program, in providing services assisted under the program, and in providing services for occupants of facilities assisted under the program;
(10) All activities the jurisdiction undertakes with assistance under ESG are consistent with the jurisdiction's consolidated plan; and
(11) The jurisdiction will establish and implement, to the maximum extent practicable and where appropriate, policies and protocols for the discharge of persons from publicly funded institutions or systems of care (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care or other youth facilities, or correction programs and institutions) in order to prevent this discharge from immediately resulting in homelessness for these persons.
(d)
HOME program.
Each participating jurisdiction must provide the following certifications:
(1) If it plans to use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance, a certification that rental-based assistance is an essential element of its consolidated plan;
(2) A certification that it is using and will use HOME funds for eligible activities and costs, as described in §§ 92.205 through 92.209 of this subtitle and that it is not using and will not use HOME funds for prohibited activities, as described in § 92.214 of this subtitle; and
(3) A certification that before committing funds to a project, the participating jurisdiction will evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it adopts for this purpose and will not invest any more HOME funds in combination with other federal assistance than is necessary to provide affordable housing.
(e)
Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS.
For jurisdictions that seek funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, a certification is required by the jurisdiction that:
(1) Activities funded under the program will meet urgent needs that are not being met by available public and private sources; and
(2) Any building or structure assisted under that program shall be operated for the purpose specified in the plan:
(i) For a period of not less than 10 years in the case of assistance involving new construction, substantial rehabilitation, or acquisition of a facility; or
(ii) For a period of not less than three years in the case of assistance involving non-substantial rehabilitation or repair of a building or structure.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999; 71 FR 6967, Feb. 9, 2006; 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007; 76 FR 75970, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.225 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(1), effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 91.225
Certifications.
(a) * * *
(1)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing. This includes certification that the grantee will affirmatively further fair housing, consistent with §§ 5.150 and 5.151 of this title.
§ 91.230
Monitoring.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025.
The plan must describe the standards and procedures that the jurisdiction will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including civil rights related program requirements, minority business outreach, and the comprehensive planning requirements.
[85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.230 was revised, effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 91.230
Monitoring.
The plan must describe the standards and procedures that the jurisdiction will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including civil rights related program requirements and the comprehensive planning requirements.
§ 91.235
Special case; abbreviated consolidated plan.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
Who may submit an abbreviated plan?
A jurisdiction that is not a CDBG entitlement community under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D, and is not expected to be a participating jurisdiction in the HOME program under 24 CFR part 92, as well as an Insular Area that is a HOME or CDBG grantee, may submit an abbreviated consolidated plan that is appropriate to the types and amounts of assistance sought from HUD, instead of a full consolidated plan.
(b)
When is an abbreviated plan necessary?
—(1)
Jurisdiction.
When a jurisdiction that is permitted to use an abbreviated plan applies to HUD for funds under a program that requires an approved consolidated plan (see § 91.2(b)), it must obtain approval of an abbreviated plan (or full consolidated plan) and submit a certification that the housing activities are consistent with the plan.
(2)
Other applicants.
When an eligible applicant other than a jurisdiction (e.g., a public housing agency or nonprofit organization) seeks to apply for funding under a program requiring certification of consistency with an approved consolidated plan, the jurisdiction—if it is permitted to use an abbreviated plan—may prepare an abbreviated plan appropriate to the project. See § 91.510.
(3)
Limitation.
For the HOME program, an abbreviated consolidated plan is permitted only with respect to reallocations to other than participating jurisdictions (see 24 CFR part 92, subpart J), and for Insular Area grantees that submit an abbreviated consolidated plan pursuant to 24 CFR 570.440. For the CDBG program, an abbreviated plan may be submitted for the HUD-administered Small Cities program (except that an abbreviated plan may not be submitted for the HUD-administered Small Cities program in the state of Hawaii), and for Insular Area grantees pursuant to 24 CFR 570.440.
(c)
What is an abbreviated plan?
—(1)
Assessment of needs, resources, and planned activities.
An abbreviated plan must contain sufficient information about needs, resources, and planned activities to address the needs to cover the type and amount of assistance anticipated to be funded by HUD.
(2)
Nonhousing community development plan.
If the jurisdiction seeks assistance under the Community Development Block Grant program, it must describe the jurisdiction's priority non-housing community development needs eligible for assistance under HUD's community development programs by CDBG eligibility category, reflecting the needs of families for each type of activity, as appropriate, in terms of dollar amounts estimated to meet the priority need for the type of activity,
in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. This community development component of the plan must state the jurisdiction's specific long-term and short-term community development objectives (including economic development activities that create jobs), which must be developed in accordance with the statutory goals described in § 91.1 and the primary objective of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5301(c), of the development of viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-income and moderate-income persons.
(3)
Separate application for funding.
In addition to submission of the abbreviated consolidated plan, an application must be submitted for funding is sought under a competitive program. The applicable program requirements are found in the regulations for the program and in the Notice of Funding Availability published for the applicable fiscal year. For the CDBG Small Cities program, the applicable regulations are found at 24 CFR part 570, subpart F.
(4)
Submissions, certifications, amendments, and performance reports.
An Insular Area grantee that submits an abbreviated consolidated plan under this section must comply with the submission, certification, amendment, and performance report requirements of § 570.440 of this title. This includes the certification that the grantee will affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title.
(d)
What consultation is applicable?
The jurisdiction must make reasonable efforts to consult with appropriate public and private social service agencies regarding the needs to be served with the funding sought from HUD. The jurisdiction must attempt some consultation with the State. (Section 91.100 does not apply.)
(e)
Citizen Participation.
An Insular Area grantee that submits an abbreviated consolidated plan under this section must comply with the citizen participation requirements of 24 CFR 570.441.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995; 72 FR 12535, Mar. 15, 2007; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.235 was amended by revising paragraphs (c)(1) and (4), effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 91.235
Special case; abbreviated consolidated plan.
(c) * * *
(1)
Assessment of needs, resources, and planned activities.
An abbreviated plan must contain sufficient information about needs, resources, and planned activities to address the needs to cover the type and amount of assistance anticipated to be funded by HUD.
(4)
Submissions, certifications, amendments, and performance reports.
An Insular Area grantee that submits an abbreviated consolidated plan under this section must comply with the submission, certification, amendment, and performance report requirements of § 570.440 of this title. This includes certification that the grantee will affirmatively further fair housing, consistent with §§ 5.150 and 5.151 of this title.
§ 91.236
Special case; District of Columbia.
For consolidated planning purposes, the District of Columbia must follow the requirements applicable to local jurisdictions (§§ 91.100, 91.105, and 91.200 through 91.230). In addition, it must submit the component of the State requirements dealing with the use of Low Income Housing Tax Credits (§ 91.315(j)).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)

# Subpart D—State Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
§ 91.300
General.
(a) A complete consolidated plan consists of the information required in § 91.300 through § 91.330, submitted in accordance with instructions prescribed by HUD (including tables and narratives), or in such other format as jointly agreed upon by HUD and the state. A comprehensive housing affordability strategy consists of the information required in §§ 91.300 through 91.315(e), 91.315(h) through 91.315(m), 91.320(c), 91.320 (g), 91.225 and 91.330.
(b) The State shall describe:
(1) The lead agency or entity responsible for overseeing the development of the plan and the significant aspects of the process by which the consolidated plan was developed;
(2) The identity of the agencies, groups, organizations, and others who participated in the process;
(3) The State's consultations with:
(i) Continuums of Care;
(ii) Public and private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, or education needs of low-income individuals and families, homeless individuals and families, youth, and/or other persons with special needs;
(iii) Publicly funded institutions and systems of care that may discharge persons into homelessness (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);
(iv) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, public and private organizations, including broadband internet service providers and organizations engaged in narrowing the digital divide;
(v) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, agencies whose primary responsibilities include the management of flood prone areas, public land or water resources, and emergency management agencies; and
(vi) Other entities.
(c) The plan shall contain a concise executive summary that includes the objectives and outcomes identified in the plan as well as an evaluation of past performance. The plan shall also contain a concise summary of the citizen participation process, public comments, and efforts made to broaden public participation in the development of the consolidated plan.
[71 FR 6967, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75970, Dec. 5, 2011; 81 FR 91012, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 91.305
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the state's estimated housing needs projected for the ensuing five-year period. Housing data included in this portion of the plan shall be based on U.S. Census data, as provided by HUD, as updated by any properly conducted local study, or any other reliable source that the state clearly identifies and should reflect the consultation with social service agencies and other entities conducted in accordance with § 91.110 and the citizen participation process conducted in accordance with § 91.115. For a state seeking funding under the HOPWA program, the needs described for housing and supportive services must address the unmet needs of low-income persons with HIV/AIDS and their families in areas outside of eligible metropolitan statistical areas.
(b)
Categories of persons affected.
(1)(i) The plan shall estimate the number and type of families in need of housing assistance for:
(A) Extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, and middle-income families;
(B) Renters and owners;
(C) Elderly persons;
(D) Single persons;
(E) Large families;
(F) Public housing residents;
(G) Families on the public housing and Section 8 tenant-based waiting list;
(H) Persons with HIV/AIDS and their families;
(I) Victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
(J) Persons with disabilities; and
(K) Formerly homeless families and individuals who are receiving rapid re-housing assistance and are nearing the termination of that assistance.
(ii) The description of housing needs shall include a concise summary of the cost burden and severe cost burden, overcrowding (especially for large families), and substandard housing conditions being experienced by extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, and middle-income renters and owners compared to the state as a whole. (The state must define in its consolidated plan the terms “standard condition” and “substandard condition but suitable for rehabilitation.”)
(2) For any of the income categories enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to the extent that any racial or ethnic group has disproportionately greater need in comparison to the needs of that category as a whole, assessment of that specific need shall be included. For this purpose, disproportionately greater need exists when the percentage of persons in a category of need who are members of a particular racial or ethnic group in a category of need is at least 10 percentage points higher than the percentage of persons in the category as a whole.
(c)
Persons who are homeless or at risk of homelessness.
(1) The plan must describe, in a form prescribed by HUD, the nature and extent of homelessness, including rural homelessness, within the state.
(i) The description must include, for each category of homeless persons specified by HUD (including chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth), the number of persons experiencing homelessness on a given night, the number of persons who experience homelessness each year, the number of persons who lose their housing and become homeless each year, the number of persons who exit homelessness each year, and the number of days that persons experience homelessness, and any other measures specified by HUD.
(ii) The plan also must contain a brief narrative description of the nature and extent of homelessness by racial and ethnic group, to the extent that information is available.
(2) The plan must include a narrative description of the characteristics and needs of low-income individuals and families with children (especially extremely low-income) who are currently housed but threatened with homelessness. This information may be evidenced by the characteristics and needs of individuals and families with children who are currently entering the homeless assistance system or appearing for the first time on the streets. The description must also include specific housing characteristics linked to instability and an increased risk of homelessness.
(d)
Other special needs.
(1) The State shall estimate, to the extent practicable, the number of persons who are not homeless but require supportive housing, including the elderly, frail elderly, persons with disabilities (mental, physical, developmental), persons with alcohol or other drug addiction, persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, and any other categories the State may specify, and describe their supportive housing needs.
(2) With respect to a State seeking assistance under the HOPWA program, the plan must identify the size and characteristics of the population with HIV/AIDS and their families within the area it will serve.
(e)
Lead-based paint hazards.
The plan must estimate the number of housing units within the State that are occupied by low-income families or moderate-income families that contain lead-based paint hazards, as defined in this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 51760, Oct. 3, 1996; 71 FR 6967, Feb. 9, 2006; 73 FR 72342, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66260, Oct. 27, 2010; 76 FR 75970, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.305 was amended by removing and reserving paragraph (b)(2), effective Apr. 2, 2025.
§ 91.310
Housing market analysis.
(a)
General characteristics.
(1) Based on data available to the State, the plan must describe the significant characteristics of the State's housing markets (including such aspects as the supply, demand, and condition and cost of housing).
(2) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1,
2018, the State must describe the broadband needs of housing in the State based on an analysis of data identified by the State. These needs include the need for broadband wiring and for connection to the broadband service in the household units, the need for increased competition by having more than one broadband Internet service provider serve the jurisdiction.
(3) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, the State must also describe the vulnerability of housing occupied by low- and moderate-income households to increased natural hazard risks due to climate change based on an analysis of data, findings, and methods identified by the State in its consolidated plan.
(b)
Facilities, housing, and services for homeless persons.
The plan must include a brief inventory of facilities and services that meet the needs of homeless persons within the state, particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth.
(1) The inventory of facilities and housing (
e.g.,
emergency shelter, transitional housing, and permanent supportive housing) must be presented in a form specified by HUD.
(2) The inventory of services must include both services targeted to homeless persons and mainstream services, such as health, mental health, and employment services to the extent those services are used to complement services targeted to homeless persons.
(c)
Special need facilities and services.
The plan must describe, to the extent information is available, the facilities and services that assist persons who are not homeless but who require supportive housing, and programs for ensuring that persons returning from mental and physical health institutions receive appropriate supportive housing.
(d)
Barriers to affordable housing.
The plan must explain whether the cost of housing or the incentives to develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the State are affected by its policies, including tax policies affecting land and other property, land use controls, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limits, and policies that affect the return on residential investment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6967, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75971, Dec. 5, 2011; 81 FR 91012, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 91.315
Strategic plan.
(a)
General.
For the categories described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, the consolidated plan must do the following:
(1) Indicate the general priorities for allocating investment geographically within the state and among different activities and needs.
(2) Describe the rationale for establishing the allocation priorities given to each category of priority needs, particularly among extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households.
(3) Identify any obstacles to meeting underserved needs.
(4) Summarize the priorities and specific objectives the state intends to initiate and/or complete during the time period covered by the strategic plan describing how the proposed distribution of funds will address identified needs. For each specific objective statement, identify proposed accomplishments and outcomes the state hopes to achieve in quantitative terms over a specified time period (e.g., one, two, three or more years), or in other measurable terms as identified and defined by the state. This information shall be provided in accordance with guidance to be issued by HUD.
(b)
Affordable housing.
With respect to affordable housing, the consolidated plan must include the priority housing needs table prescribed by HUD and the following:
(1) The affordable housing section shall describe how the characteristics of the housing market and the severity of housing problems and needs of extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income renters and owners, persons at risk of homelessness, and homeless persons identified in accordance with § 91.305 provided the rationale for establishing allocation priorities and use of funds made available
for rental assistance, production of new units, rehabilitation of existing units, or acquisition of existing units (including preserving affordable housing units that may be lost from the assisted housing inventory for any reason). Household and income types may be grouped together for discussion where the analysis would apply to more than one of them. If the State intends to use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance, the State must specify local market conditions that led to the choice of that option.
(2) The affordable housing section shall include specific objectives that describe proposed accomplishments the State hopes to achieve and must specify the number of extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income families to which the State will provide affordable housing, as defined in 24 CFR 92.252 for rental housing, 24 CFR 92.254 for homeownership, and 24 CFR 93.302 for rental housing and 24 CFR 93.304 for homeownership over a specific time period.
(c)
Public housing.
With respect to public housing, the consolidated plan must do the following:
(1)
Resident initiatives.
For a state that has a state housing agency administering public housing funds, the consolidated plan must describe the state's activities to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership;
(2)
Public housing needs.
The consolidated plan must describe the manner in which the plan of the state will address the needs of public housing; and
(3)
Troubled public housing agencies.
If a public housing agency located within a state is designated as “troubled” by HUD under part 902 of this title, the strategy for the state or unit of local government in which any troubled public housing agency is located must describe the manner in which the state or unit of general local government will provide financial or other assistance to improve the public housing agency's operations and remove the “troubled” designation. A state is not required to describe the manner in which financial or other assistance is provided if the troubled public housing agency is located entirely within the boundaries of a unit of general local government that must submit a consolidated plan to HUD.
(d)
Homelessness.
The consolidated plan must include the priority homeless needs table prescribed by HUD and must describe the State's strategy for reducing and ending homelessness through:
(1) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;
(2) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons;
(3) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and
(4) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families who are:
(i) Likely to become homeless after being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions); or
(ii) Receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.
(e)
Other special needs.
With respect to supportive needs of the non-homeless, the consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the priority housing and supportive service needs of persons who are not homeless but require supportive housing, i.e., elderly, frail elderly, persons with disabilities (mental, physical, developmental), persons with alcohol or other drug addiction, persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, and public housing residents. If the state intends to use HOME funds for tenant-based assistance to assist one or more of these subpopulations, it
must specify local market conditions that led to the choice of this option.
(f)
Nonhousing community development plan.
If the state seeks assistance under the CDBG program, the consolidated plan must concisely describe the state's priority nonhousing community development needs that affect more than one unit of general local government. These priority needs must be described by CDBG eligibility category, reflecting the needs of persons or families for each type of activity. This community development component of the plan must identify the state's specific long-term and short-term community development objectives (including economic development activities that create jobs), which must be developed in accordance with the primary objective of the CDBG program to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-income and moderate-income persons.
(g)
Community Revitalization.
States are encouraged to identify areas where geographically targeted revitalization efforts are carried out through multiple activities in a concentrated and coordinated manner. In addition, a state may elect to allow units of general local government to carry out a community revitalization strategy that includes the economic empowerment of low-income residents, in order to obtain the additional flexibility available as provided in 24 CFR part 570, subpart I. A state must approve a local government's revitalization strategy before it may be implemented. If a state elects to allow revitalization strategies in its program, the method of distribution contained in a state's action plan pursuant to § 91.320(k)(1) must reflect the state's process and criteria for approving local government's revitalization strategies. The strategy must identify the long-term and short-term objectives (e.g., physical improvements, social initiatives, and economic empowerment), expressing them in terms of measures of outputs and outcomes that are expected through the use of HUD programs. The state's process and criteria are subject to HUD approval.
(h)
Barriers to affordable housing.
The consolidated plan must describe the state's strategy to remove or ameliorate negative effects of its policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing, as identified in accordance with § 91.310.
(i)
Lead based paint.
The consolidated plan must outline the actions proposed or being taken to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards, and describe how the lead-based paint hazard reduction will be integrated into housing policies and programs.
(j)
Anti-poverty strategy.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the state's goals, programs, and policies for reducing the number of poverty-level families and how the state's goals, programs, and policies for producing and preserving affordable housing, set forth in the housing component of the consolidated plan, will be coordinated with other programs such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families as well as employment and training programs and services for which the state is responsible and the extent to which they will reduce (or assist in reducing) the number of poverty-level families, taking into consideration factors over which the state has control.
(k)
Institutional structure.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the institutional structure, including businesses, developers, nonprofit organizations, philanthropic organizations, community-based and faith-based organizations, the Continuum of Care, and public institutions, departments, and agencies through which the State will carry out its housing, homeless, and community development plan; a brief assessment of the strengths and gaps in that delivery system; and a concise summary of what the State will do to overcome gaps in the institutional structure for carrying out its strategy for addressing its priority needs.
(l)
Coordination.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction's activities to enhance coordination among Continuums of Care, public and assisted housing providers, and private and governmental health, mental health, and service agencies. The summary must
include the jurisdiction's efforts to coordinate housing assistance and services for homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) and persons who were recently homeless but now live in permanent housing. With respect to the public entities involved, the plan must describe the means of cooperation and coordination among the State and any units of general local government in the implementation of its consolidated plan. With respect to economic development, the State should describe efforts to enhance coordination with private industry, businesses, developers, and social service agencies.
(m)
Low-income housing tax credit.
The consolidated plan must describe the strategy to coordinate the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit with the development of housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income families.
[71 FR 6968, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75972, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.320
Action plan.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The action plan must include the following:
(a) Standard Form 424;
(b) A concise executive summary that includes the objectives and outcomes identified in the plan as well as an evaluation of past performance, a summary of the citizen participation and consultation process (including efforts to broaden public participation) (24 CFR 91.300 (b)), a summary of comments or views, and a summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons therefore (24 CFR 91.115 (b)(5)).
(c)
Resources and objectives
—(1)
Federal resources.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the federal resources expected to be made available. These resources include grant funds and program income.
(2)
Other resources.
The consolidated plan must indicate resources from private and non-federal public sources that are reasonably expected to be made available to address the needs identified in the plan. The plan must explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources, including a description of how matching requirements of the HUD programs will be satisfied. Where the State deems it appropriate, it may indicate publicly owned land or property located within the State that may be used to carry out the purposes identified in the plan;
(3)
Annual objectives.
The consolidated plan must contain a summary of the annual objectives the State expects to achieve during the forthcoming program year.
(d)
Activities.
A description of the State's method for distributing funds to local governments and nonprofit organizations to carry out activities, or the activities to be undertaken by the State, using funds that are expected to be received under formula allocations (and related program income) and other HUD assistance during the program year, the reasons for the allocation priorities, how the proposed distribution of funds will address the priority needs and specific objectives described in the consolidated plan, and any obstacles to addressing underserved needs.
(e)
Outcome measures.
Each State must provide outcome measures for activities included in its action plan in accordance with guidance issued by HUD. For the CDBG program, this would include activities that are likely to be funded as a result of the implementation of the State's method of distribution.
(f)
Geographic distribution.
A description of the geographic areas of the State (including areas of low-income and minority concentration) in which it will direct assistance during the ensuing program year, giving the rationale for the priorities for allocating investment geographically. When appropriate, the State should estimate the percentage of funds they plan to dedicate to target area(s).
(g)
Affordable housing goals.
The State must specify one-year goals for the number of households to be provided affordable housing through activities that provide rental assistance, production of new units, rehabilitation of existing units, or acquisition of existing units using funds made available to the
State, and one-year goals for the number of homeless, non-homeless, and special-needs households to be provided affordable housing using funds made available to the State. The term affordable housing shall be as defined in 24 CFR 92.252 for rental housing and 24 CFR 92.254 for homeownership.
(h)
Homeless and other special needs activities.
(1) The State must describe its one-year goals and specific actions steps for reducing and ending homelessness through:
(i) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;
(ii) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons;
(iii) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and
(iv) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families who are:
(A) Being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions); or
(B) Receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.
(2) The State must specify the activities that it plans to undertake during the next year to address the housing and supportive service needs identified in accordance with § 91.315(e) with respect to persons who are not homeless but have other special needs.
(i)
Barriers to affordable housing.
Actions it plans to take during the next year to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing. Such policies, procedures, and processes include but are not limited to: land use controls, tax policies affecting land, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and policies affecting the return on residential investment.
(j)
Other actions.
Actions it plans to take during the next year to implement its strategic plan and address obstacles to meeting underserved needs, foster and maintain affordable housing (including allocation plans and policies governing the use of Low-Income Housing Credits under 26 U.S.C. 42, which are more commonly referred to as Low-Income Housing Tax Credits), evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards, reduce the number of poverty-level families, develop institutional structure, enhance coordination between public and private housing and social service agencies, address the needs of public housing (including providing financial or other assistance to troubled PHAs), and encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership.
(k)
Program-specific requirements.
In addition, the plan must include the following specific information:
(1)
CDBG.
The action plan must set forth the State's method of distribution.
(i) The method of distribution must contain a description of all criteria used to select applications from local governments for funding, including the relative importance of the criteria, where applicable. The method of distribution must provide sufficient information so that units of general local government will be able to understand and comment on it, understand what criteria and information their application will be judged on, and be able to prepare responsive applications. The method of distribution may provide a summary of the selection criteria, provided that all criteria are summarized and the details are set forth in application manuals or other official State publications that are widely distributed to eligible applicants.
(ii) The action plan must include a description of how all CDBG resources will be allocated among funding categories and the threshold factors and
grant size limits that are to be applied. The total CDBG resources to be described in the action plan include all of the following:
(A) The CDBG origin year grant.
(B) Any program income expected to be returned to the State in accordance with 24 CFR 570.489(e)(3)(i) in the program year or not included in a prior action plan, and any program income expected to be received by any State revolving fund in accordance with 24 CFR 570.489(f)(2) in the program year or not included in a prior action plan.
(C) Reimbursements, other than program income, made to a local account.
(iii) If the State intends to help nonentitlement units of general local government apply for guaranteed loan funds under 24 CFR part 570, subpart M, it must describe available guarantee amounts and how applications will be selected for assistance. If a State elects to allow units of general local government to carry out community revitalization strategies, the method of distribution shall reflect the State's process and criteria for approving local government's revitalization strategies.
(iv) If the State permits units of general local government to retain program income per 24 CFR 570.489(e)(3) or establish local revolving funds per 24 CFR 570.489(f)(1), the State must include a description of each of the local accounts including the name of the local entity administering the funds, contact information for the entity administering the funds, the amounts expected to be available during the program year, the eligible activity type(s) expected to be carried out with the program income, and the national objective(s) served with the funds.
(iv) HUD may monitor the method of distribution as part of its audit and review responsibilities, as provided in 24 CFR 570.493(a)(1), in order to determine compliance with program requirements.
(2)
HOME.
(i) The HOME program resources that the State must describe in the action plan are the fiscal year HOME allocation plus the amount of program income, repayments, and recaptured funds in the State's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account (see 24 CFR 92.500(c)(1)) at the beginning of the State's program year. The State may choose to include program income, repayments, and recaptured funds that are expected to be received during the program year if the State plans to commit these funds during the program year.
(ii) The State shall describe other forms of investment that are not described in 24 CFR 92.205(b). HUD's specific written approval is required for other forms of investment, as provided in § 92.205(b). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action plan does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.
(iii) If the State intends to use HOME funds for homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in 24 CFR 92.254. Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for other forms of investment.
(iv) If the State intends to use HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily housing that is being rehabilitated with HOME funds, it must State its refinancing guidelines required under 24 CFR 92.206(b). The guidelines shall describe the conditions under which the State will refinance existing debt. At minimum, the guidelines must:
(A) Demonstrate that rehabilitation is the primary eligible activity and ensure that this requirement is met by establishing a minimum level of rehabilitation per unit or a required ratio between rehabilitation and refinancing.
(B) Require a review of management practices to demonstrate that disinvestment in the property has not occurred; that the long-term needs of the project can be met; and that the feasibility of serving the targeted population over an extended affordability period can be demonstrated.
(C) State whether the new investment is being made to maintain current affordable units, create additional affordable units, or both.
(D) Specify the required period of affordability, whether it is the minimum 15 years or longer.
(E) Specify whether the investment of HOME funds may be state-wide or limited to a specific geographic area, such as a community identified in a neighborhood revitalization strategy under 24 CFR 91.315(g), or a federally designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community.
(F) State that HOME funds cannot be used to refinance multifamily loans made or insured by any federal program, including the CDBG program.
(v) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyer assistance or for rehabilitation of owner-occupied single family housing and does not use the HOME affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with 24 CFR 92.254(a)(2)(iii).
(vi) The State must describe eligible applicants (e.g., categories of eligible applicants), describe its process for soliciting and funding applications or proposals (e.g., competition, first-come first-serve; subgrants to local jurisdictions) and State where detailed information may be obtained (e.g., application packages are available at the office of the State or on the State's Web site).
(vii) The participating jurisdiction may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the low-income population only if described in the action plan.
(A) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 92.350, and the participating jurisdiction must not limit or give preferences to students.
(B) A limitation or preference may include, in addition to targeting tenant-based rental assistance to persons with special needs as provided in 24 CFR 92.209(c)(2), limiting beneficiaries or giving preferences to persons in certain occupations, such as police officers, firefighters, or teachers.
(C) The participating jurisdiction must not limit beneficiaries or give a preference to all employees of the jurisdiction.
(D) The participating jurisdiction may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 92.253(d) only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.
(viii) If the State will receive funding under the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) (see 24 CFR part 92, subpart M), it must include:
(A) A description of the planned use of the ADDI funds;
(B) A plan for conducting targeted outreach to residents and tenants of public and manufactured housing and to other families assisted by public housing agencies, for the purposes of ensuring that the ADDI funds are used to provide downpayment assistance for such residents, tenants, and families; and
(C) A description of the actions to be taken to ensure the suitability of families receiving ADDI funds to undertake and maintain homeownership, such as provision of housing counseling to homebuyers.
(3)
ESG.
(i) The State must either include its written standards for providing Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) assistance or describe its requirements for its subrecipients to establish and implement written standards for providing ESG assistance. The minimum requirements regarding these standards are set forth in 24 CFR 576.400(e)(2) and (e)(3).
(ii) For each area of the State in which a Continuum of Care has established a centralized or coordinated assessment system that meets HUD requirements, the State must describe that centralized or coordinated assessment system. The requirements for using a centralized or coordinated assessment system, including the exception for victim service providers, are set forth under 24 CFR 576.400(d).
(iii) The State must identify its process for making subawards and a description of how the State intends to make its allocation available to units of general local government and private nonprofit organizations, including community and faith-based organizations.
(iv) The State must describe the performance standards for evaluating ESG activities.
(v) The State must describe its consultation with each Continuum of Care in determining how to allocate ESG funds each program year; developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and developing funding, policies and procedures for the administration and operation of the HMIS.
(4)
HOPWA.
For HOPWA funds, the State must specify one-year goals for the number of households to be provided housing through the use of HOPWA activities for short-term rent; mortgage and utility assistance payments to prevent homelessness of the individual or family; tenant-based rental assistance; and units provided in housing facilities that are being developed, leased or operated with HOPWA funds, and shall identify the method of selecting project sponsors (including providing full access to grassroots faith-based and other community-based organizations).
(5)
Housing Trust Fund.
The action plan must include the HTF allocation plan that describes the distribution of the HTF funds, and establishes the application requirements and the criteria for selection of applications submitted by eligible recipients that meet the State's priority housing needs. The plan must also establish the State's maximum per-unit development subsidy limit for housing assisted with HTF funds. If the HTF funds will be used for first-time homebuyers, it must State the guidelines for resale and recapture as required in 24 CFR 93.304. The plan must reflect the State's decision to distribute HTF funds through grants to subgrantees and/or to select applications submitted by eligible recipients. If the State is selecting applications submitted by eligible recipients, the plan must include the following:
(i) The plan must provide priority for funding based on geographic diversity (as defined by the State in the consolidated plan); the applicant's ability to obligate HTF funds and undertake eligible activities in a timely manner; in the case of rental housing projects, the extent to which the project has Federal, State, or local project-based rental assistance so that rents are affordable to extremely low-income families; in the case of rental housing projects, the duration of the units' affordability period; the merits of the application in meeting the priority housing needs of the State (such as housing that is accessible to transit or employment centers, housing that includes green building and sustainable development features, or housing that serves special needs populations); and the extent to which the application makes use of non-federal funding sources.
(ii) The plan must include the requirement that the application contain a description of the eligible activities to be conducted with the HTF funds (as provided in 24 CFR 93.200) and contain a certification by each eligible recipient that housing units assisted with the HTF will comply with HTF requirements. The plan must also describe eligibility requirements for recipients (as defined in 24 CFR 93.2).
(iii) The plan must provide for performance goals and benchmarks against which the State will measure its progress, consistent with the State's goals established under 24 CFR 91.315(b)(2).
(iv) The plan must include the State's rehabilitation standards, as required by 24 CFR 93.301(b)(1).
(v) If the State intends to use HTF funds for first-time homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in § 93.304(f). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.
(vi) If the State intends to use HTF funds for homebuyer assistance and does not use the HTF affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with § 93.305.
(vii) The State may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the extremely low- or very low-income population only if described in the action plan.
(A) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 93.350, and the State must not limit or give preferences to students.
(B) The State may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 93.303(d)(3) only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.
(viii) The plan must describe the conditions under which the State will refinance existing debt.
[71 FR 6969, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75972, Dec. 5, 2011; 78 FR 44664, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 69869, Nov. 12, 2015; 81 FR 86951, Dec. 1, 2016; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025, § 91.320 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 91.325
Certifications.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
General
—(1)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each State is required to submit a certification, consistent with §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title, that it will affirmatively further fair housing.
(2)
Anti-displacement and relocation plan.
The State is required to submit a certification that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the CDBG or HOME programs.
(3)
Anti-lobbying.
The State must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part.
(4)
Authority of State.
The State must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State law and that the State possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations.
(5)
Consistency with plan.
The State must submit a certification that the housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the strategic plan.
(6)
Acquisition and relocation.
The State must submit a certification that it will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(7)
Section 3.
The State must submit a certification that it will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 75.
(b)
Community Development Block Grant program.
For States that seek funding under CDBG, the following certifications are required:
(1)
Citizen participation.
A certification that the State is following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of § 91.115, and that each unit of general local government that is receiving assistance from the State is following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of § 570.486 of this title.
(2)
Consultation with local governments.
A certification that:
(i) It has consulted with affected units of local government in the nonentitlement area of the State in determining the method of distribution of funding;
(ii) It engages or will engage in planning for community development activities;
(iii) It provides or will provide technical assistance to units of general local government in connection with community development programs;
(iv) It will not refuse to distribute funds to any unit of general local government on the basis of the particular eligible activity selected by the unit of general local government to meet its community development needs, except that a State is not prevented from establishing priorities in distributing funding on the basis of the activities selected; and
(v) Each unit of general local government to be distributed funds will be required to identify its community development and housing needs, including
the needs of the low-income and moderate-income families, and the activities to be undertaken to meet these needs.
(3)
Community development plan.
A certification that this consolidated plan identifies community development and housing needs and specifies both short-term and long-term community development objectives that have been developed in accordance with the primary objective of the statute authorizing the CDBG program, as described in 24 CFR 570.2, and requirements of this part and 24 CFR part 570.
(4)
Use of funds.
A certification that the State has complied with the following criteria:
(i) With respect to activities expected to be assisted with CDBG funds, the action plan has been developed so as to give the maximum feasible priority to activities that will benefit low- and moderate-income families or aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight. The plan may also include CDBG-assisted activities that are certified to be designed to meet other community development needs having particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community where other financial resources are not available to meet such needs;
(ii) In the aggregate, not less than 70 percent of the CDBG funds received by the State during a period specified by the State, not to exceed three years, will be used for activities that benefit persons of low and moderate income. The period selected and certified to by the State shall be designated by fiscal year of annual grants, and shall be for one, two, or three consecutive annual grants. (See 24 CFR 570.481 for definition of “CDBG funds”); and
(iii) The State will not attempt to recover any capital costs of public improvements assisted with CDBG funds, including Section 108 loan guaranteed funds, by assessing any amount against properties owned and occupied by persons of low- and moderate-income, including any fee charged or assessment made as a condition of obtaining access to such public improvements. However, if CDBG funds are used to pay the proportion of a fee or assessment attributable to the capital costs of public improvements (assisted in part with CDBG funds) financed from other revenue sources, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than with CDBG funds. In addition, with respect to properties owned and occupied by moderate-income (but not low-income) families, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than CDBG funds if the State certifies that it lacks CDBG funds to cover the assessment.
(5)
Compliance with anti-discrimination laws.
A certification that the grant will be conducted and administered in conformity with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d) and the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations.
(6)
Excessive force.
A certification that the State will require units of general local government that receive CDBG funds to certify that they have adopted and are enforcing:
(i) A policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations; and
(ii) A policy of enforcing applicable State and local laws against physically barring entrance to or exit from a facility or location that is the subject of such non-violent civil rights demonstrations within its jurisdiction.
(7)
Compliance with laws.
A certification that the State will comply with applicable laws.
(c)
ESG.
Each State that seeks funding under ESG must provide the following certifications:
(1) The State will obtain any matching amounts required under 24 CFR 576.201 in a manner so that its subrecipients that are least capable of providing matching amounts receive the benefit of the exception under 24 CFR 576.201(a)(2);
(2) The State will establish and implement, to the maximum extent practicable and where appropriate, policies, and protocols for the discharge of persons from publicly funded institutions or systems of care (such as health-care
facilities, mental health facilities, foster care or other youth facilities, or correction programs and institutions) in order to prevent this discharge from immediately resulting in homelessness for these persons;
(3) The State will develop and implement procedures to ensure the confidentiality of records pertaining to any individual provided family violence prevention or treatment services under any project assisted under the ESG program, including protection against the release of the address or location of any family violence shelter project, except with the written authorization of the person responsible for the operation of that shelter; and
(4) The State will ensure that its subrecipients comply with the following criteria:
(i) If an emergency shelter's rehabilitation costs exceed 75 percent of the value of the building before rehabilitation, the building will be maintained as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 10 years after the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed rehabilitation;
(ii) If the cost to convert a building into an emergency shelter exceeds 75 percent of the value of the building after conversion, the building will be maintained as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 10 years after the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed conversion;
(iii) In all other cases where ESG funds are used for renovation, the building will be maintained as a shelter for homeless individuals and families for a minimum of 3 years after the date the date the building is first occupied by a homeless individual or family after the completed renovation;
(iv) If ESG funds are used for shelter operations or essential services related to street outreach or emergency shelter, the subrecipient will provide services or shelter to homeless individuals and families for the period during which the ESG assistance is provided, without regard to a particular site or structure, so long as the applicant serves the same type of persons (
e.g.,
families with children, unaccompanied youth, veterans, disabled individuals, or victims of domestic violence) or persons in the same geographic area;
(v) Any renovation carried out with ESG assistance shall be sufficient to ensure that the building involved is safe and sanitary;
(vi) The subrecipient will assist homeless individuals in obtaining permanent housing, appropriate supportive services (including medical and mental health treatment, counseling, supervision, and other services essential for achieving independent living), and other Federal, State, local, and private assistance available for such individuals;
(vii) To the maximum extent practicable, the subrecipient will involve, through employment, volunteer services, or otherwise, homeless individuals and families in constructing, renovating, maintaining, and operating facilities assisted under ESG, in providing services assisted under ESG, and in providing services for occupants of facilities assisted under ESG; and
(viii) All activities the subrecipient undertakes with assistance under ESG are consistent with the State's current HUD-approved consolidated plan.
(d)
HOME program.
Each State must provide the following certifications:
(1) If it plans to use program funds for tenant-based rental assistance, a certification that rental-based assistance is an essential element of its consolidated plan;
(2) A certification that it is using and will use HOME funds for eligible activities and costs, as described in §§ 92.205 through 92.209 of this subtitle and that it is not using and will not use HOME funds for prohibited activities, as described in § 92.214 of this subtitle; and
(3) A certification that before committing funds to a project, the State or its recipients will evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it adopts for this purpose and will not invest any more HOME funds in combination with other federal assistance than is necessary to provide affordable housing.
(e)
Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS.
For States that seek funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, a certification is required by the State that:
(1) Activities funded under the program will meet urgent needs that are not being met by available public and private sources; and
(2) Any building or structure purchased, leased, rehabilitated, renovated, or converted with assistance under that program shall be operated for not less than 10 years specified in the plan, or for a period of not less than three years in cases involving non-substantial rehabilitation or repair of a building or structure.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6970, Feb. 9, 2006; 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007; 76 FR 75973, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 69870, Nov. 12, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.325 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(1), effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 91.325
Certifications.
(a) * * *
(1)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each State is required to submit a certification that the grantee will affirmatively further fair housing, consistent with §§ 5.150 and 5.151 of this title.
§ 91.330
Monitoring.
The consolidated plan must describe the standards and procedures that the State will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including the comprehensive planning requirements.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995]

# Subpart E—Consortia; Contents of Consolidated Plan
§ 91.400
Applicability.
This subpart applies to HOME program consortia, as defined in § 91.5 (see 24 CFR part 92). Units of local government that participate in a consortium must participate in submission of a consolidated plan for the consortium, prepared in accordance with this subpart. CDBG entitlement communities that are members of a consortium must provide additional information for the consolidated plan, as described in this subpart.
§ 91.401
Citizen participation plan.
The consortium must have a citizen participation plan that complies with the requirements of § 91.105. If the consortium contains one or more CDBG entitlement communities, the consortium's citizen participation plan must provide for citizen participation within each CDBG entitlement community, either by the consortium or by the CDBG entitlement community, in a manner sufficient for the CDBG entitlement community to certify that it is following a citizen participation plan.
§ 91.402
Consolidated program year.
(a)
Same program year for consortia members.
All units of general local government that are members of a consortium must be on the same program year for CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA. The program year shall run for a twelve month period and begin on the first calendar day of a month.
(b)
Transition period.
(1) A consortium in existence on February 6, 1995, with all members having aligned program years must comply with paragraph (a) of this section. A consortium in existence on February 6, 1995, in which all members do not have aligned program years will be allowed a transition period during the balance of its current consortium agreement to bring the program year for all members into alignment.
(2) During any such transition period, the lead agency (if it is a CDBG entitlement community) must submit, as its consolidated plan, a plan that complies with this subpart for the consortium, plus its nonhousing Community Development Plan (in accordance with § 91.215). All other CDBG entitlement communities in the consortium may submit their respective nonhousing Community Development Plans (§ 91.215(e)), an Action Plan (§ 91.220) and the certifications (§ 91.425(a) and
(b)) in accordance with their individual program years.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 10427, Feb. 24, 1995]
§ 91.405
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
Housing and homeless needs must be described in the consolidated plan in accordance with the provisions of § 91.205 for the entire consortium. In addition to describing these needs for the entire consortium, the consolidated plan may also describe these needs for individual communities that are members of the consortium.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
§ 91.410
Housing market analysis.
Housing market analysis must be described in the consolidated plan in accordance with the provisions of § 91.210 for the entire consortium. In addition to describing market conditions for the entire consortium, the consolidated plan may also describe these conditions for individual communities that are members of the consortium.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
§ 91.415
Strategic plan.
Strategies and priority needs must be described in the consolidated plan, in accordance with the provisions of § 91.215, for the entire consortium. The consortium is not required to submit a nonhousing Community Development Plan; however, if the consortium includes CDBG entitlement communities, the consolidated plan must include the nonhousing Community Development Plans of the CDBG entitlement community members of the consortium. The consortium must set forth its priorities for allocating housing (including CDBG and ESG, where applicable) resources geographically within the consortium, describing how the consolidated plan will address the needs identified (in accordance with § 91.405), describing the reasons for the consortium's allocation priorities, and identifying any obstacles there are to addressing underserved needs.
[85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.420
Action plan.
(a)
Form application.
The action plan for the consortium must include a Standard Form 424 for the consortium for the HOME program. Each entitlement jurisdiction also must submit a Standard Form 424 for its funding under the CDBG program and, if applicable, the ESG and HOPWA programs.
(b)
Description of resources and activities.
The action plan must describe the resources to be used and activities to be undertaken to pursue its strategic plan. The consolidated plan must provide this description for all resources and activities within the entire consortium as a whole, as well as a description for each individual community that is a member of the consortium.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 42366, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.425
Certifications.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
Consortium certifications
—(1)
General
—i)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each Consortium is required to submit a certification, consistent with §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title, that it will affirmatively further fair housing.
(ii)
Anti-displacement and relocation plan.
Each consortium must certify that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the HOME or CDBG program.
(iii)
Anti-lobbying.
The consortium must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part.
(iv)
Authority of consortium.
The consortium must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State and local law (as applicable) and that the consortium possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations.
(v)
Consistency with plan.
The consortium must certify that the housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the strategic plan.
(vi)
Acquisition and relocation.
The consortium must certify that it will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601), and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(vii)
Section 3.
The consortium must certify that it will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 75.
(2)
HOME program.
The consortium must provide the following certifications:
(i) If it plans to use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance, a certification that rental-based assistance is an essential element of its consolidated plan;
(ii) That it is using and will use HOME funds for eligible activities and costs, as described in §§ 92.205 through 92.209 of this subtitle and that it is not using and will not use HOME funds for prohibited activities, as described in § 92.214 of this subtitle; and
(iii) That before committing funds to a project, the consortium will evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it adopts for this purpose and will not invest any more HOME funds in combination with other federal assistance than is necessary to provide affordable housing.
(b)
CDBG entitlement community certifications.
A CDBG entitlement community that is a member of a consortium must submit the certifications required by § 91.225 (a) and (b), and, if applicable, of § 91.225 (c) and (d).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007; 80 FR 42366, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47910, Aug. 7, 2020; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.425 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(i), effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 91.425
Certifications.
(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(i)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each consortium must submit a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing, consistent with §§ 5.150 and 5.151 of this title.
§ 91.430
Monitoring.
The consolidated plan must describe the standards and procedures that the consortium will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including minority business outreach and the comprehensive planning requirements.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995]

# Subpart F—Other General Requirements
§ 91.500
HUD approval action.
(a)
General.
HUD will review the plan upon receipt. The plan will be deemed approved 45 days after HUD receives the plan, unless before that date HUD has notified the jurisdiction that the plan is disapproved.
(b)
Standard of review.
HUD may disapprove a plan or a portion of a plan if it is inconsistent with the purposes of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12703), if it is substantially incomplete, or, in the case of certifications applicable to the CDBG program under §§ 91.225 (a) and (b) or 91.325 (a) and (b), if it is not satisfactory to the Secretary in accordance with §§ 570.304, 570.429(g), or 570.485(c) of this title, as applicable. The following are examples of consolidated plans that are substantially incomplete:
(1) A plan that was developed without the required citizen participation or the required consultation;
(2) A plan that fails to satisfy all the required elements in this part; and
(3) A plan for which a certification is rejected by HUD as inaccurate, after HUD has inspected the evidence and
provided due notice and opportunity to the jurisdiction for comment; and
(4) A plan that does not include a description of the manner in which the unit of general local government or state will provide financial or other assistance to a public housing agency if the public housing agency is designated as “troubled” by HUD.
(c)
Written notice of disapproval.
Within 15 days after HUD notifies a jurisdiction that it is disapproving its plan, it must inform the jurisdiction in writing of the reasons for disapproval and actions that the jurisdiction could take to meet the criteria for approval. Disapproval of a plan with respect to one program does not affect assistance distributed on the basis of a formula under other programs.
(d)
Revisions and resubmission.
The jurisdiction may revise or resubmit a plan within 45 days after the first notification of disapproval. HUD must respond to approve or disapprove the plan within 30 days of receiving the revisions or resubmission.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 56909, Nov. 9, 1995; 61 FR 54920, Oct. 22, 1996; 71 FR 6970, Feb. 9, 2006]
§ 91.505
Amendments to the consolidated plan.
(a)
Amendments to the plan.
The jurisdiction shall amend its approved plan whenever it makes one of the following decisions:
(1) To make a change in its allocation priorities or a change in the method of distribution of funds;
(2) To carry out an activity, using funds from any program covered by the consolidated plan (including program income, reimbursements, repayment, recaptures, or reallocations from HUD), not previously described in the action plan; or
(3) To change the purpose, scope, location, or beneficiaries of an activity.
(b)
Criteria for substantial amendment.
The jurisdiction shall identify in its citizen participation plan the criteria it will use for determining what constitutes a substantial amendment. It is these substantial amendments that are subject to a citizen participation process, in accordance with the jurisdiction's citizen participation plan. (See §§ 91.105 and 91.115.)
(c)
Submission to HUD.
(1) Upon completion, the jurisdiction must make the amendment public and must notify HUD that an amendment has been made. The jurisdiction may submit a copy of each amendment to HUD as it occurs, or at the end of the program year. Letters transmitting copies of amendments must be signed by the official representative of the jurisdiction authorized to take such action.
(2) See subpart B of this part for the public notice procedures applicable to substantial amendments. For any amendment affecting the HOPWA program that would involve acquisition, rehabilitation, conversion, lease, repair or construction of properties to provide housing, an environmental review of the revised proposed use of funds must be completed by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 574.510.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 42366, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 69870, Nov. 12, 2015; 81 FR 86951, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 47910, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.510
Consistency determinations.
(a)
Applicability.
For competitive programs, a certification of consistency of the application with the approved consolidated plan for the jurisdiction may be required, whether the applicant is the jurisdiction or another applicant.
(b)
Certifying authority.
(1) The certification must be obtained from the unit of general local government if the project will be located in a unit of general local government that: is required to have a consolidated plan, is authorized to use an abbreviated consolidated plan but elects to prepare and has submitted a full consolidated plan, or is authorized to use an abbreviated consolidated plan and is applying for the same program as the applicant pursuant to the same Notice of Funding Availability (and therefore has or will have an abbreviated consolidated plan for the fiscal year for that program).
(2) If the project will not be located in a unit of general local government, the certification may be obtained from
the State or, if the project will be located in a unit of general local government authorized to use an abbreviated consolidated plan, from the unit of general local government if it is willing to prepare such a plan.
(3) Where the recipient of a HOPWA grant is a city that is the most populous unit of general local government in an EMSA, it also must obtain and keep on file certifications of consistency from such public officials for each other locality in the EMSA in which housing assistance is provided.
(c)
Meaning.
A jurisdiction's certification that an application is consistent with its consolidated plan means the jurisdiction's plan shows need, the proposed activities are consistent with the jurisdiction's strategic plan, and the location of the proposed activities is consistent with the geographic areas specified in the plan. The jurisdiction shall provide the reasons for the denial when it fails to provide a certification of consistency.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
§ 91.515
Funding determinations by HUD.
(a)
Formula funding.
The action plan submitted by the jurisdiction will be considered as the application for the CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA formula grant programs. The Department will make its funding award determination after reviewing the plan submission in accordance with § 91.500.
(b)
Other funding.
For other funding, the jurisdiction must still respond to Notices of Funding Availability for the individual programs in order to receive funding.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
§ 91.520
Performance reports.
(a)
General.
Each jurisdiction that has an approved consolidated plan shall annually review and report, in a form prescribed by HUD, on the progress it has made in carrying out its strategic plan and its action plan. The performance report must include a description of the resources made available, the investment of available resources, the geographic distribution and location of investments, the families and persons assisted (including the racial and ethnic status of persons assisted), actions taken to affirmatively further fair housing, and other actions indicated in the strategic plan and the action plan. This performance report shall be submitted to HUD within 90 days after the close of the jurisdiction's program year.
(b)
Affordable housing.
The report shall include an evaluation of the jurisdiction's progress in meeting its specific objective of providing affordable housing, including the number and types of families served. This element of the report must include the number of extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, middle-income, and homeless persons served.
(c)
Homelessness.
The report must include, in a form prescribed by HUD, an evaluation of the jurisdiction's progress in meeting its specific objectives for reducing and ending homelessness through:
(1) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;
(2) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons;
(3) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and
(4) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families and those who are
(i) Likely to become homeless after being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);
(ii) Receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.
(d)
CDBG.
For CDBG recipients, the report shall include a description of the use of CDBG funds during the program year and an assessment by the jurisdiction of the relationship of that use to the priorities and specific objectives identified in the plan, giving special attention to the highest priority activities that were identified. This element of the report must specify the nature of and reasons for any changes in its program objectives and indications of how the jurisdiction would change its programs as a result of its experiences. This element of the report also must include the number of extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income persons served by each activity where information on income by family size is required to determine the eligibility of the activity.
(e)
HOME.
For HOME participating jurisdictions, the report shall include the results of on-site inspections of affordable rental housing assisted under the program to determine compliance with housing codes and other applicable regulations, an assessment of the jurisdiction's affirmative marketing actions and outreach to minority-owned and women-owned businesses, data on the amount and use of program income for projects, including the number of projects and owner and tenant characteristics, and data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 92.359, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(f)
HOPWA.
For jurisdictions receiving funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, the report must include the number of individuals assisted and the types of assistance provided, as well as data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e), pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(g)
ESG.
For jurisdictions receiving funding under the ESG program provided in 24 CFR part 576, the report, in a form prescribed by HUD, must include the number of persons assisted, the types of assistance provided, the project or program outcomes data measured under the performance standards developed in consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care, and data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 576.409, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(h)
HTF.
For jurisdictions receiving HTF funds, the report must describe the HTF program's accomplishments, and the extent to which the jurisdiction complied with its approved HTF allocation plan and the requirements of 24 CFR part 93, as well as data on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 24 CFR 93.356, pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(i)
Evaluation by HUD.
HUD shall review the performance report and determine whether it is satisfactory. If a satisfactory report is not submitted in a timely manner, HUD may suspend funding until a satisfactory report is submitted, or may withdraw and reallocate funding if HUD determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the jurisdiction will not submit a satisfactory report.
(j) The report will include a comparison of the proposed versus actual outcomes for each outcome measure submitted with the consolidated plan and explain, if applicable, why progress was not made toward meeting goals and objectives.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6971, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75973, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015; 81 FR 80803, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 91.525
Performance review by HUD.
(a)
General.
HUD shall review the performance of each jurisdiction covered by this part at least annually, including site visits by employees—insofar as practicable, assessing the following:
(1) Management of funds made available under programs administered by HUD;
(2) Compliance with the consolidated plan;
(3) Accuracy of performance reports;
(4) Extent to which the jurisdiction made progress towards the statutory goals identified in § 91.1; and
(5) Efforts to ensure that housing assisted under programs administered by HUD is in compliance with contractual agreements and the requirements of law.
(b)
Report by HUD.
HUD shall report on the performance review in writing, stating the length of time the jurisdiction has to review and comment on the report, which will be at least 30 days. HUD may revise the report after considering the jurisdiction's views, and shall make the report, the jurisdiction's comments, and any revisions available to the public within 30 days after receipt of the jurisdiction's comments.
§ 91.600
Waiver authority.
Upon determination of good cause, HUD may, subject to statutory limitations, waive any provision of this part. Each such waiver must be in writing and must be supported by documentation of the pertinent facts and grounds.
[60 FR 50802, Sept. 29, 1995]
Pt. 92

# PART 92—HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
92.1
Overview.
92.2
Definitions.
92.3
Applicability of 2013 regulatory changes.
92.4
Waivers and suspension of requirements for disaster areas.

# Subpart B—Allocation Formula
92.50
Formula allocation.

# Insular Areas Program
92.60
Allocation amounts for insular areas.
92.61
Program description.
92.62
Review of program description and certifications.
92.63
Amendments to program description.
92.64
Applicability of requirements to insular areas.
92.65
Funding sanctions.
92.66
Reallocation.

# Subpart C—Consortia; Designation and Revocation of Designation as a Participating Jurisdiction
92.100
[Reserved]
92.101
Consortia.
92.102
Participation threshold amount.
92.103
Notification of intent to participate.
92.104
Submission of a consolidated plan.
92.105
Designation as a participating jurisdiction.
92.106
Continuous designation as a participating jurisdiction.
92.107
Revocation of designation as a participating jurisdiction.

# Subpart D—Submission Requirements
92.150
Submission requirements.

# Subpart E—Program Requirements
92.200
Private-public partnership.
92.201
Distribution of assistance.
92.202
Site and neighborhood standards.
92.203
Income determinations.
92.204
Applicability of requirements to entities that receive a reallocation of HOME funds, other than participating jurisdictions.

# Eligible and Prohibited Activities
92.205
Eligible activities: General.
92.206
Eligible project costs.
92.207
Eligible administrative and planning costs.
92.208
Eligible community housing development organization (CHDO) operating expense and capacity building costs.
92.209
Tenant-based rental assistance: Eligible costs and requirements.
92.210
Troubled HOME-assisted rental housing projects.
92.212
Pre-award costs.
92.213
HOME funds and public housing.
92.214
Prohibited activities and fees.
92.215
Limitation on jurisdictions under court order.

# Income Targeting
92.216
Income targeting: Tenant-based rental assistance and rental units.
92.217
Income targeting: Homeownership.

# Matching Contribution Requirement
92.218
Amount of matching contribution.
92.219
Recognition of matching contribution.
92.220
Form of matching contribution.
92.221
Match credit.
92.222
Reduction of matching contribution requirement.

# Subpart F—Project Requirements
92.250
Maximum per-unit subsidy amount, underwriting, and subsidy layering.
92.251
Property standards.
92.252
Qualification as affordable housing: Rental housing.
92.253
Tenant protections and selection.
92.254
Qualification as affordable housing: Homeownership.
92.255
Converting rental units to homeownership units for existing tenants.
92.256
[Reserved]
92.257
Equal participation of faith-based organizations.
92.258
Elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units.

# Subpart G—Community Housing Development Organizations
92.300
Set-aside for community housing development organizations (CHDOs).
92.301
Project-specific assistance to community housing development organizations.
92.302
Housing education and organizational support.
92.303
Tenant participation plan.

# Subpart H—Other Federal Requirements
92.350
Other Federal requirements and nondiscrimination.
92.351
Affirmative marketing; minority outreach program.
92.352
Environmental review.
92.353
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
92.354
Labor.
92.355
Lead-based paint.
92.356
Conflict of interest.
92.357
Executive Order 12372.
92.358
Consultant activities.
92.359
VAWA requirements.

# Subpart I—Technical Assistance
92.400
Coordinated Federal support for housing strategies.

# Subpart J—Reallocations
92.450
General.
92.451
Reallocation of HOME funds from a jurisdiction that is not designated a participating jurisdiction or has its designation revoked.
92.452
Reallocation of community housing development organization set-aside.
92.453
Competitive reallocations.
92.454
Reallocations by formula.

# Subpart K—Program Administration
92.500
The HOME Investment Trust Fund.
92.501
HOME Investment Partnership Agreement.
92.502
Program disbursement and information system.
92.503
Program income, repayments, and recaptured funds.
92.504
Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspections.
92.505
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements.
92.506
Audit.
92.507
Closeout.
92.508
Recordkeeping.
92.509
Performance reports.

# Subpart L—Performance Reviews and Sanctions
92.550
Performance reviews.
92.551
Corrective and remedial actions.
92.552
Notice and opportunity for hearing; sanctions.

# Subpart M—American Dream Downpayment Initiative
92.600
Purpose.
92.602
Eligible activities.
92.604
ADDI allocation formula.
92.606
Reallocations.
92.608
Consolidated plan.
92.610
Program requirements
92.612
Project requirements.
92.614
Other Federal requirements.
92.616
Program administration.
92.618
Performance reviews and sanctions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 12701—12839, 12 U.S.C. 1701x.

# Source:
61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 92.1
Overview.
This part implements the HOME Investment Partnerships Act (the HOME Investment Partnerships Program). In general, under the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, HUD allocates funds by formula among eligible State and local governments to strengthen public-private partnerships and to expand the supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing, with primary attention to rental housing, for very low-income and low-income families. Generally, HOME funds must be matched by nonfederal resources. State and local governments that become participating jurisdictions may use HOME funds to carry out multi-year housing strategies through acquisition, rehabilitation, and new construction of
housing, and tenant-based rental assistance. Participating jurisdictions may provide assistance in a number of eligible forms, including loans, advances, equity investments, interest subsidies and other forms of investment that HUD approves.
§ 92.2
Definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The terms
1937 Act, ALJ,
Fair Housing Act, HUD,
Indian Housing Authority (IHA), Public housing,
Public Housing Agency (PHA),
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
Act
means the HOME Investment Partnerships Act at title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12701
et seq.
ADDI funds
means funds made available under subpart M through allocations and reallocations.
Adjusted income.
See § 92.203.
Annual income.
See § 92.203.
CDBG program
means the Community Development Block Grant program under 24 CFR part 570.
Certification
shall have the meaning provided in section 104(21) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12704.
Commitment
means:
(1) The participating jurisdiction has executed a legally binding written agreement (that includes the date of the signature of each person signing the agreement) that meets the minimum requirements for a written agreement in § 92.504(c). An agreement between the participating jurisdiction and a subrecipient that is controlled by the participating jurisdiction (
e.g.,
an agency whose officials or employees are official or employees of the participating jurisdiction) does not constitute a commitment. An agreement between the representative unit and a member unit of general local government of a consortium does not constitute a commitment. Funds for administrative and planning costs of the HOME program are committed based on the amount in the program disbursement and information system for administration and planning. The written agreement must be:
(i) With a State recipient or a subrecipient to use a specific amount of HOME funds to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance;
(ii) With a community housing development organization to provide operating expenses;
(iii) With a community housing development organization to provide project-specific technical assistance and site control loans or project-specific seed money loans, in accordance with § 92.301;
(iv) To develop the capacity of community housing development organizations in the jurisdiction, in accordance with § 92.300(b); or
(v) To commit to a specific local project, as defined in paragraph (2) of this definition.
(2)
Commit to a specific local project
means:
(i) If the project consists of rehabilitation or new construction (with or without acquisition) the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or sub recipient) and project owner have executed a written legally binding agreement under which HOME assistance will be provided to the owner for an identifiable project for which all necessary financing has been secured, a budget and schedule have been established, and underwriting has been completed and under which construction is scheduled to start within twelve months of the agreement date. If the project is owned by the participating jurisdiction or State recipient, the project has been set up in the disbursement and information system established by HUD, and construction can reasonably be expected to start within twelve months of the project set-up date.
(ii)(A) If the project consists of acquisition of standard housing and the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) is acquiring the property with HOME funds, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) and the property owner have executed a legally binding contract for sale of an identifiable property and the property title will be transferred to the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) within six months of the date of the contract.
(B) If the project consists of acquisition of standard housing and the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) is providing HOME funds to a family to acquire single family housing for homeownership or to a purchaser to acquire rental housing, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient or subrecipient) and the family or purchaser have executed a written agreement under which HOME assistance will be provided for the purchase of the single family housing or rental housing and the property title will be transferred to the family or purchaser within six months of the agreement date.
(iii) If the project consists of tenant-based rental assistance, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient, or subrecipient) has entered into a rental assistance contract with the owner or the tenant in accordance with the provisions of § 92.209.
Community housing development organization
means a private nonprofit organization that:
(1) Is organized under State or local laws;
(2) Has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
(3) Is neither controlled by, nor under the direction of, individuals or entities seeking to derive profit or gain from the organization. A community housing development organization may be sponsored or created by a for-profit entity, but:
(i) The for-profit entity may not be an entity whose primary purpose is the development or management of housing, such as a builder, developer, or real estate management firm.
(ii) The for-profit entity may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body. Board members appointed by the for-profit entity may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members;
(iii) The community housing development organization must be free to contract for goods and services from vendors of its own choosing; and
(iv) The officers and employees of the for-profit entity may not be officers or employees of the community housing development organization.
(4) Has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1 or 1.501(c)(4)-1)), is classified as a subordinate of a central organization non-profit under section 905 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or if the private nonprofit organization is an wholly owned entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for tax purposes (e.g., a single member limited liability company that is wholly owned by an organization that qualifies as tax-exempt), the owner organization has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and meets the definition of “community housing development organization;”
(5) Is not a governmental entity (including the participating jurisdiction, other jurisdiction, Indian tribe, public housing authority, Indian housing authority, housing finance agency, or redevelopment authority) and is not controlled by a governmental entity. An organization that is created by a governmental entity may qualify as a community housing development organization; however, the governmental entity may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body and no more than one- third of the board members may be public officials or employees of governmental entity. Board members appointed by a governmental entity may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members. The officers or employees of a governmental entity may not be officers or employees of a community housing development organization;
(6) Has standards of financial accountability that conform to 2 CFR 200.302, ‘Financial Management’ and 2 CFR 200.303, ‘Internal Controls;’
(7) Has among its purposes the provision of decent housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income persons, as evidenced in its charter, articles of incorporation, resolutions or by-laws;
(8) Maintains accountability to low-income community residents by:
(i) Maintaining at least one-third of its governing board's membership for
residents of low-income neighborhoods, other low-income community residents, or elected representative of low-income neighborhood organizations. For urban areas, “community” may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, city, county or metropolitan area; for rural areas, it may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, town, village, county, or multi-county area (but not the entire State); and
(ii) Providing a formal process for low-income program beneficiaries to advise the organization in its decisions regarding the design, siting, development, and management of affordable housing;
(9) Has a demonstrated capacity for carrying out housing projects assisted with HOME funds. A designated organization undertaking development activities as a developer or sponsor must satisfy this requirement by having paid employees with housing development experience who will work on projects assisted with HOME funds. For its first year of funding as a community housing development organization, an organization may satisfy this requirement through a contract with a consultant who has housing development experience to train appropriate key staff of the organization. An organization that will own housing must demonstrate capacity to act as owner of a project and meet the requirements of § 92.300(a)(2). A nonprofit organization does not meet the test of demonstrated capacity based on any person who is a volunteer or whose services are donated by another organization; and
(10) Has a history of serving the community within which housing to be assisted with HOME funds is to be located. In general, an organization must be able to show one year of serving the community before HOME funds are reserved for the organization. However, a newly created organization formed by local churches, service organizations or neighborhood organizations may meet this requirement by demonstrating that its parent organization has at least a year of serving the community.
Consolidated plan
means the plan submitted and approved in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
Displaced homemaker
means an individual who:
(1) Is an adult;
(2) Has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force for a number of years but has, during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and
(3) Is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
Family
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403.
First-time homebuyer
means an individual and his or her spouse who have not owned a home during the three-year period prior to purchase of a home with assistance under the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) described in subpart M of this part. The term first-time homebuyer also includes an individual who is a displaced homemaker or single parent, as those terms are defined in this section. An individual shall not be excluded from consideration as a first-time homebuyer on the basis that the individual owns or owned, as a principal residence during the three-year period, a dwelling unit whose structure is not permanently affixed to a permanent foundation in accordance with local or other applicable regulations or is not in compliance with State, local, or model building codes, or other applicable codes, and cannot be brought into compliance with the codes for less than the cost of constructing a permanent structure.
Foster adult
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
Foster child
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
Full-time student
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
HOME funds
means funds made available under this part through allocations and reallocations, plus program income.
Homebuyer counseling
has the same meaning as homeownership counseling in 24 CFR 5.100, and is a type of housing counseling.
Homeownership
means ownership in fee simple title in a 1- to 4-unit dwelling or in a condominium unit, or equivalent form of ownership approved by HUD.
(1) The land may be owned in fee simple or the homeowner may have a 99-year ground lease.
(i) For housing located in the insular areas, the ground lease must be 40 years or more.
(ii) For housing located on Indian trust or restricted Indian lands or a Community Land Trust, the ground lease must be 50 years or more.
(iii) For manufactured housing, the ground lease must be for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability in § 92.254.
(2) Right to possession under a contract for deed, installment contract, or land contract (pursuant to which the deed is not given until the final payment is made) is not an equivalent form of ownership.
(3) The ownership interest may be subject only to the restrictions on resale required under § 92.254(a); mortgages, deeds of trust, or other liens or instruments securing debt on the property as approved by the participating jurisdiction; or any other restrictions or encumbrances that do not impair the good and marketable nature of title to the ownership interest.
(4) The participating jurisdiction must determine whether or not ownership or membership in a cooperative or mutual housing project constitutes homeownership under State law; however, if the cooperative or mutual housing project receives Low Income Housing Tax Credits, the ownership or membership does not constitute homeownership.
Household
means one or more persons occupying a housing unit.
Housing
includes manufactured housing and manufactured housing lots, permanent housing for disabled homeless persons, transitional housing, single-room occupancy housing, and group homes. Housing also includes elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units that are small, free- standing, barrier-free, energy-efficient, removable, and designed to be installed adjacent to existing single-family dwellings. Housing does not include emergency shelters (including shelters for disaster victims) or facilities such as nursing homes, convalescent homes, hospitals, residential treatment facilities, correctional facilities, halfway houses, housing for students, or dormitories (including farmworker dormitories).
Housing counseling
has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 5.100.
Insular areas
means Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
Jurisdiction
means a State or unit of general local government.
Live-in aide
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403.
Low-income families
means families whose annual incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. An individual does not qualify as a low-income family if the individual is a student who is not eligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 CFR 5.612.
Metropolitan city
has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 570.3.
Neighborhood
means a geographic location designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographical designation that is within the boundary but does not encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government; except that if the unit of general local government has a population under 25,000, the neighborhood may, but need not, encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government.
Participating jurisdiction
means a jurisdiction (as defined in this section) that has been so designated by HUD in accordance with § 92.105.
Person with disabilities
means a household composed of one or more persons, at least one of whom is an adult, who has a disability.
(1) A person is considered to have a disability if the person has a physical, mental, or emotional impairment that:
(i) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration;
(ii) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently; and
(iii) Is of such a nature that such ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions.
(2) A person will also be considered to have a disability if he or she has a developmental disability, which is a severe, chronic disability that:
(i) Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of mental and physical impairments;
(ii) Is manifested before the person attains age 22;
(iii) Is likely to continue indefinitely;
(iv) Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following areas of major life activity: self-care, receptive and expressive language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, and economic self-sufficiency; and
(v) Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special, interdisciplinary, or generic care, treatment, or other services that are of lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this definition, the term “person with disabilities” includes two or more persons with disabilities living together, one or more such persons living with another person who is determined to be important to their care or well-being, and the surviving member or members of any household described in the first sentence of this definition who were living, in a unit assisted with HOME funds, with the deceased member of the household at the time of his or her death.
Program income
means gross income received by the participating jurisdiction, State recipient, or a subrecipient directly generated from the use of HOME funds or matching contributions. When program income is generated by housing that is only partially assisted with HOME funds or matching funds, the income shall be prorated to reflect the percentage of HOME funds used. Program income includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Proceeds from the disposition by sale or long-term lease of real property acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed with HOME funds or matching contributions;
(2) Gross income from the use or rental of real property, owned by the participating jurisdiction, State recipient, or a subrecipient, that was acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed, with HOME funds or matching contributions, less costs incidental to generation of the income (
Program income
does not include gross income from the use, rental or sale of real property received by the project owner, developer, or sponsor, unless the funds are paid by the project owner, developer, or sponsor to the participating jurisdiction, subrecipient or State recipient);
(3) Payments of principal and interest on loans made using HOME funds or matching contributions;
(4) Proceeds from the sale of loans made with HOME funds or matching contributions;
(5) Proceeds from the sale of obligations secured by loans made with HOME funds or matching contributions;
(6) Interest earned on program income pending its disposition; and
(7) Any other interest or return on the investment permitted under § 92.205(b) of HOME funds or matching contributions.
Project
means a site or sites together with any building (including a manufactured housing unit) or buildings located on the site(s) that are under common ownership, management, and financing and are to be assisted with HOME funds as a single undertaking under this part. The project includes all the activities associated with the site and building. For tenant-based rental assistance, project means assistance to one or more families.
Project completion
means that all necessary title transfer requirements and construction work have been performed; the project complies with the requirements of this part (including the property standards under § 92.251); the final drawdown of HOME funds has been disbursed for the project; and the project completion information has been entered into the disbursement and information system established by HUD, except that with respect to rental housing project completion, for the purposes of § 92.502(d) of this part, project completion occurs upon completion of construction and before occupancy. For tenant-based rental assistance, project completion means the final drawdown has been disbursed for the project.
Reconstruction
means the rebuilding, on the same lot, of housing standing on a site at the time of project commitment, except that housing that was destroyed may be rebuilt on the same lot if HOME funds are committed within 12 months of the date of destruction. The number of housing units on the lot may not be decreased or increased as part of a reconstruction project, but the number of rooms per unit may be increased or decreased. Reconstruction also includes replacing an existing substandard unit of manufactured housing with a new or standard unit of manufactured housing. Reconstruction is rehabilitation for purposes of this part.
Single family housing
means a one-to four-family residence, condominium unit, cooperative unit, combination of manufactured housing and lot, or manufactured housing lot.
Single parent
means an individual who:
(1) Is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and
(2) Has one or more minor children of whom the individual has custody or joint custody, or is pregnant.
Single room occupancy (SRO) housing
means housing (consisting of single- room dwelling units) that is the primary residence of its occupant or occupants. The unit must contain either food preparation or sanitary facilities (and may contain both) if the project consists of new construction, conversion of nonresidential space, or reconstruction. For acquisition or rehabilitation of an existing residential structure or hotel, neither food preparation nor sanitary facilities are required to be in the unit. If the units do not contain sanitary facilities, the building must contain sanitary facilities that are shared by tenants. A project's designation as an SRO cannot be inconsistent with the building's zoning and building code classification.
State
means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive officer to act on behalf of the state with regard to the provisions of this part; however, for purposes of the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) described in subpart M of this part, the term “state” does not include the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (except for FY2003 ADDI funds).
State recipient.
See § 92.201(b)(2).
Subrecipient
means a public agency or nonprofit organization selected by the participating jurisdiction to administer all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance. A public agency or nonprofit organization that receives HOME funds solely as a developer or owner of a housing project is not a subrecipient. The participating jurisdiction's selection of a subrecipient is not subject to the procurement procedures and requirements.
Tenant-based rental assistance
is a form of rental assistance in which the assisted tenant may move from a dwelling unit with a right to continued assistance. Tenant-based rental assistance under this part also includes security deposits for rental of dwelling units.
Transitional housing
means housing that:
(1) Is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to persons, including (but not limited to) deinstitutionalized individuals with disabilities, homeless individuals with disabilities, and homeless families with children; and
(2) Has as its purpose facilitating the movement of individuals and families to independent living within a time period that is set by the participating jurisdiction or project owner before occupancy.
Unit of general local government
means a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; a consortium of such political subdivisions recognized by HUD in accordance with § 92.101; and any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the jurisdiction with regard to provisions of this part. When a county is an urban county, the urban county is the unit of general local government for purposes of the HOME Investment Partnerships Program.
Urban county
has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 570.3.
Very low-income families
means low- income families whose annual incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median family income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 50 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. An individual does not qualify as a very low-income family if the individual is a student who is not eligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 CFR 5.612.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61755, Oct. 1, 2002; 69 FR 16765, Mar. 30, 2004; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44664, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75934, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016; 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023; 88 FR 9662, Feb. 14, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.2 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.3
Applicability of 2013 regulatory changes.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 865, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The regulations of this part, as revised by final rule published on July 24, 2013 are applicable to projects for which HOME funds are committed on or after August 23, 2013, with the exception of the following provisions;
(a) Section 92.2, for the definition of commitment, the change which eliminates reservations of funds that are not project-specific to CHDOs as a commitment will be applicable on October 22, 2013 and will be implemented by HUD for deadlines that occur on or after January 1, 2015;
(b) Section 92.251, Property Standards, will apply to projects to which funds are committed on or after January 24, 2015;
(c) Section 92.254(f). Homebuyer program policies, for written policies related to underwriting, responsible lending, and refinancing, will be applicable on January 24, 2014;
(d) Section 92.500(d)(1)(C), establishing the separate 5-year deadline for expenditure of CHDO set-aside funds will be applicable on January 1, 2015 and will be implemented by HUD for all deadlines that occur on or after that date; and
(e) Section 92.504(a), for written policies, procedures, and systems, will be applicable on July 24, 2014.
(f) Section 92.504(d)(2), for financial oversight of projects assisted with HOME funds, will be applicable on July 24, 2014.
[78 FR 44666, Aug. 22, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 865, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.3 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.4
Waivers and suspension of requirements for disaster areas.
HUD's authority for waiver of regulations and for the suspension of requirements to address damage in a Presidentially declared disaster area is described in 24 CFR 5.110 and in section 290 of the Act, respectively.

# Subpart B—Allocation Formula
§ 92.50
Formula allocation.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Jurisdictions eligible for a formula allocation.
HUD will provide allocations of funds in amounts determined by the formula described in this section to units of general local governments that, as of the end of the previous fiscal year, are metropolitan cities, urban counties, or consortia approved under § 92.101; and States.
(b)
Amounts available for allocation; State and local share.
The amount of funds that are available for allocation by the formula under this section is equal to the balance of funds remaining after reserving amounts for insular areas, housing education and organizational support, other support for State and local housing strategies, and other purposes authorized by Congress, in accordance with the Act and appropriations.
(c)
Formula factors.
The formula for determining allocations uses the following factors. The first and sixth factors are weighted 0.1; the other four factors are weighted 0.2.
(1) Vacancy-adjusted rental units where the household head is at or
below the poverty level. These rental units are multiplied by the ratio of the national rental vacancy rate over a jurisdiction's rental vacancy rate.
(2) Occupied rental units with at least one of four problems (overcrowding, incomplete kitchen facilities, incomplete plumbing, or high rent costs).
Overcrowding
is a condition that exists if there is more than one person per room occupying the unit.
Incomplete kitchen facilities
means the unit lacks a sink with running water, a range, or a refrigerator.
Incomplete plumbing
means the unit lacks hot and cold piped water, a flush toilet, or a bathtub or shower inside the unit for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit.
High rent costs
occur when more than 30 percent of household income is used for rent.
(3) Rental units built before 1950 occupied by poor households.
(4) Rental units described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section multiplied by the ratio of the cost of producing housing for a jurisdiction divided by the national cost.
(5) Number of families at or below the poverty level.
(6) Population of a jurisdiction multiplied by a net per capita income (pci). To compute net pci for a jurisdiction or for the nation, the pci of a three person family at the poverty threshold is subtracted from the pci of the jurisdiction or of the nation. The index is constructed by dividing the national net pci by the net pci of a jurisdiction.
(d)
Calculating formula allocations for units of general local government.
(1) Initial allocation amounts for units of general local government described in paragraph (a) of this section are determined by multiplying the sum of the shares of the six factors in paragraph (c) of this section by 60 percent of the amount available under paragraph (b) of this section for formula allocation. The shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for each jurisdiction over the corresponding factor for the total for all of these units of general local government.
(2) If any of the initial amounts for such units of general local government in Puerto Rico exceeds twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, that amount is capped at twice the national average.
(3) To determine the maximum number of units of general local government that receive a formula allocation, only one jurisdiction (the unit of general local government with the smallest allocation of HOME funds) is dropped from the pool of eligible jurisdictions on each successive recalculation, except that jurisdictions that are participating jurisdictions (other than consortia that fail to renew the membership of all of their member jurisdictions) are not dropped. Then the amount of funds available for units of general local government is redistributed to all others. This recalculation/redistribution continues until all remaining units of general local government receive an allocation of $500,000 or more or are participating jurisdictions. Only units of general local government which receive an allocation of $500,000 or more under the formula or which are participating jurisdictions will be awarded an allocation. In fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion of HOME funds, $335,000 is substituted for $500,000.
(4) The allocation amounts determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section are reduced by any amounts that are necessary to provide increased allocations to States that have no unit of general local government receiving a formula allocation (see paragraph (e)(4) of this section). These reductions are made on a
pro rata
basis, except that no unit of general local government allocation is reduced below $500,000 (or $335,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion of HOME funds) and no participating jurisdiction allocation which is below this amount is reduced.
(e)
Calculating formula allocations for States.
(1) Forty percent of the funds available for allocation under paragraph (b) of this section are allocated to States. The allocation amounts for States are calculated by determining initial amounts for each State, based on the sum of the shares of the six factors. For 20 percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for the entire State over the corresponding factor for the total for all States. For 80
percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for all units of general local government within the State that do not receive a formula allocation over the corresponding factor for the total for all States.
(2) If the initial amounts for Puerto Rico (based on either or both the 80 percent of funds or 20 percent of funds calculation) exceed twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, each amount that exceeds the national average is capped at twice the national average, and the resultant funds are reallocated to other States on a prorata basis.
(3) If the initial amounts when combined for any State are less than the $3,000,000, the allocation to that State is increased to the $3,000,000 and all other State allocations are reduced by an equal amount on a prorata basis, except that no State allocation is reduced below $3,000,000.
(4) The allocation amount for each State that has no unit of general local government within the State receiving an allocation under paragraph (d) of this section is increased by $500,000. Funds for this increase are derived from the funds available for units of general local government, in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61755, Oct. 1, 2002]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.50 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Insular Areas Program
§ 92.60
Allocation amounts for insular areas.
(a)
Initial allocation amount for each insular area.
The initial allocation amount for each insular area is determined based upon the insular area's population and occupied rental units compared to all insular areas.
(b)
Threshold requirements.
The HUD Field Office shall review each insular area's progress on outstanding allocations made under this section, based on the insular area's performance report, the timeliness of close-outs, and compliance with fund management requirements and regulations, taking into consideration the size of the allocation and the degree and complexity of the program. If HUD determines from this review that the insular area does not have the capacity to administer effectively a new allocation, or a portion of a new allocation, in addition to allocations currently under administration, HUD may reduce the insular area's initial allocation amount.
(c)
Previous audit findings and outstanding monetary obligations.
HUD shall not make an allocation to an insular area that has either an outstanding audit finding for any HUD program, or an outstanding monetary obligation to HUD that is in arrears, or for which a repayment schedule has not been established. This restriction does not apply if the HUD Field Office finds that the insular area has made a good faith effort to clear the audit and, when there is an outstanding monetary obligation to HUD, the insular area has made a satisfactory arrangement for repayment of the funds due HUD and payments are current.
(d)
Increases to the initial allocation amount.
If funds reserved for the insular areas are available because HUD has decreased the amount for one or more insular areas in accordance with paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, or for any other reason, HUD may increase the allocation amount for one or more of the remaining insular areas based upon the insular area's performance in committing HOME funds within the 24 month deadline, producing housing units described in its program description, and meeting HOME program requirements. Funds that become available but which are not used to increase the allocation amount for one or more of the remaining insular areas will be reallocated in accordance with § 92.66.
(e)
Notice of allocation amounts.
HUD will notify each insular area, in writing, as to the amount of its HOME allocation.
§ 92.61
Program description.
(a)
Submission requirement.
Not later than 90 days after HUD notifies the insular area of the amount of its allocation, the insular area must submit a
program description and certifications to HUD.
(b)
Content of program description.
The program description must contain the following:
(1) An executed Standard Form 424;
(2) The estimated use of HOME funds and a description of projects and eligible activities, including number of units to be assisted, estimated costs, and tenure type (rental or owner occupied) and, for tenant assistance, number of households to be assisted;
(3) A timetable for the implementation of the projects or eligible activities;
(4) If the insular area intends to use HOME funds for homebuyers, the guidelines for resale or recapture as required in § 92.254(a)(5);
(5) If the insular area intends to use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance, a description of how the program will be administered consistent with the minimum guidelines described in § 92.209;
(6) If an insular area intends to use other forms of investment not described in § 92.205(b), a description of the other forms of investment;
(7) A statement of the policy and procedures to be followed by the insular area to meet the requirements for affirmative marketing, and establishing and overseeing a minority and women business outreach program under § 92.351;
(8) If the insular intends to use HOME funds for refinancing along with rehabilitation, the insular area's guidelines described in § 92.206(b).
(c)
Certifications.
The following certifications must accompany the program description:
(1) A certification that, before committing funds to a project, the insular area will evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it adopts for this purpose and will not invest any more HOME funds in combination with other governmental assistance than is necessary to provide affordable housing;
(2) If the insular area intends to provide tenant-based rental assistance, the certification required by § 92.209;
(3) A certification that the submission of the program description is authorized under applicable law and the insular area possesses the legal authority to carry out the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, in accordance with the HOME regulations;
(4) A certification that it will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24 and the requirements of § 92.353;
(5) A certification that the insular area will use HOME funds in compliance with all requirements of this part;
(6) The certification required with regard to lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by 24 CFR part 87.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 92.62
Review of program description and certifications.
(a)
Review of program description.
The responsible HUD Field Office will review an insular area's program description and will approve the description unless the insular area has failed to submit information sufficient to allow HUD to make the necessary determinations required for § 92.61 (b)(4), (b)(6), and (b)(7), or the guidelines under (b)(8) are not satisfactory to HUD, if applicable; or if the level of proposed projects or eligible activities is not within the management capability demonstrated by past performance in housing and community development programs. If the insular area has not submitted information on § 92.61 (b)(4), (b)(6), and (b)(7), or the guidelines under (b)(8) are not satisfactory to HUD, if applicable; or if the level of proposed projects or eligible activities is not within the management capability demonstrated by past performance in housing and community development programs, the insular area may be required to furnish such further information or assurances as HUD may consider necessary to find the program description and certifications satisfactory. The HUD Field Office shall work with the insular area to achieve a complete and satisfactory program description.
(b)
Review period.
Within thirty days of receipt of the program description, the HUD Field Office will notify the insular area if determinations cannot be
made under § 92.61 (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), or (b)(8) with the supporting information submitted, or if the proposed projects or activities are beyond currently demonstrated capability. The insular area will have a reasonable period of time, agreed upon mutually, to submit the necessary supporting information or to revise the proposed projects or activities in its program description.
(c)
HOME Investment Partnership Agreement.
After HUD Field Office approval under this section, a HOME funds allocation is made by HUD execution of the agreement, subject to execution by the insular area. The funds are obligated on the date HUD notifies the insular area of HUD's execution of the agreement.
§ 92.63
Amendments to program description.
An insular area must submit to HUD for approval any substantial change in its HUD-approved program description that it makes and must document any other changes in its file. A substantial change involves a change in the guidelines for resale or recapture (§ 92.61(b)(4)), other forms of investment (§ 92.61(b)(6)), minority and women business outreach program (§ 92.61(b)(7)) or refinancing (§ 92.61(b)(8)); or a change in the tenure type of the project or activities; or a funding increase to a project or activity of $100,000 or 50% (whichever is greater). The HUD Field Office will notify the insular area if its program description, as amended, does not permit determinations to be made under § 92.61 (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), or (b)(8), or if the level of proposed projects or eligible activities is not within the management capability demonstrated by past performance in housing and community development programs, within 30 days of receipt. The insular area will have a reasonable period of time, agreed upon mutually, to submit the necessary supporting information to revise the proposed projects or activities in its program description.
§ 92.64
Applicability of requirements to insular areas.
(a) Insular areas are subject to the same requirements in subpart E (Program Requirements), subpart F (Project Requirements), subpart K (Program Administration), and subpart L (Performance Reviews and Sanctions) of this part as participating jurisdictions, except for the following:
(1) Subpart E (Program Requirements): Administrative costs, as described in § 92.207, are eligible costs for insular areas in an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the HOME funds provided to the insular area. The matching contribution requirements in this part do not apply.
(2) Subpart K (Program Administration):
(i) Section 92.500 (The HOME Investment Trust Fund) does not apply. HUD will establish a HOME account in the United States Treasury for each insular area and the HOME funds must be used for approved activities. A local account must be established for program income. Each insular area may use either a separate local HOME account or a subsidiary account within its general fund (or other appropriate fund) as the local HOME account. HUD will recapture HOME funds in the HOME Treasury account by the amount of:
(A) Any funds that are not committed within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the insular area of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement;
(B) Any funds that are not expended within five years after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the insular area of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement; and
(C) Any penalties assessed by HUD under § 92.552.
(ii) Section 92.502 (Program disbursement and information system) applies, except that references to the HOME Investment Trust Fund mean HOME account. In addition, § 92.502(c) does not apply, and instead compliance with Treasury Circular No. 1075 (31 CFR part 205) and 2 CFR 200.305 is required.
(iii) Section 92.503 (Program income, repayments, and recaptured funds) applies, except that the funds may be retained provided the funds are used for eligible activities in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(3) Section 92.504 (Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspections) applies, except that the written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements in this section.
(4) Section 92.508 (Recordkeeping) applies with respect to the records that relate to the requirements of this section.
(5) Section 92.509 (Performance reports) applies, except that a performance report is required for the fiscal year allocation only after completion of the approved projects funded by the allocation.
(6) Subpart L (Performance Reviews and Sanctions): Section 92.552 does not apply. Instead, § 92.65 applies.
(b) The requirements of subpart H (Other Federal Requirements) of this part apply as follows: § 92.357 Executive Order 12372 applies as written, and the requirements of the remaining sections which apply to participating jurisdictions are applicable to the insular areas.
(c) Subpart B (Allocation Formula), subpart C (Consortia; Designation and Revocation as a Participating Jurisdiction), subpart D (Submission Requirements), and subpart G (Community Housing Development Organizations) of this part do not apply.
(d) Subpart A (General) applies, except that for the definitions of
commitment
,
program income
, and
subrecipient
, “participating jurisdiction” means “insular area.”
[69 FR 15673, Mar. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 92.65
Funding sanctions.
Following notice and opportunity for informal consultation, HUD may withhold, reduce or terminate the assistance where any corrective or remedial actions taken under § 92.551 fail to remedy an insular area's performance deficiencies, and the deficiencies are sufficiently substantial, in the judgment of HUD, to warrant sanctions.
§ 92.66
Reallocation.
Any HOME funds which are reduced or recaptured from an insular area's allocation and which are not used to increase the allocation amount for one or more of the remaining insular areas as provided in § 92.60 of this part, will be reallocated by HUD to the States in accordance with the requirements in subpart J for reallocating funds initially allocated to a State.

# Subpart C—Consortia; Designation and Revocation of Designation as a Participating Jurisdiction
§ 92.100
[Reserved]
§ 92.101
Consortia.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) A consortium of geographically contiguous units of general local government is a unit of general local government for purposes of this part if the requirements of this section are met.
(1) One or more members of a proposed consortium or an existing consortium whose consortium qualification terminates at the end of the fiscal year, must provide written notification to the HUD Field Office of its intent to participate as a consortium in the HOME Program for the following fiscal year. HUD shall establish the deadline for this submission.
(2) The proposed consortium must provide, at such time and in a manner and form prescribed by HUD, the qualification documents, which will include submission of:
(i) A written certification by the State that the consortium will direct its activities to alleviation of housing problems within the State; and
(ii) Documentation which demonstrates that the consortium has executed one legally binding cooperation agreement among its members authorizing one member unit of general local government to act in a representative capacity for all member units of general local government for the purposes of this part and providing that the representative member assumes overall responsibility for ensuring that the consortium's HOME Program is carried out in compliance with the requirements of this part.
(3) Before the end of the fiscal year in which the notice of intent and documentation are submitted, HUD must determine that a proposed consortium
has sufficient authority and administrative capability to carry out the purposes of this part on behalf of its member jurisdictions. HUD will endeavor to make its determination as quickly as practicable after receiving the consortium's documentation in order to provide the consortium an opportunity to correct its submission, if necessary. If the submission is deficient, HUD will work with the consortium to resolve the issue, but will not delay the formula allocations. HUD, at its discretion, may review the performance of an existing consortium that wishes to requalify to determine whether it continues to have sufficient authority and administrative capacity to successfully administer the program.
(b) A metropolitan city or an urban county may be a member of a consortium. A unit of general local government that is included in an urban county may be part of a consortium, only if the urban county joins the consortium. The included local government cannot join the consortium except through participation in the urban county.
(c) A non-urban county may be a member of a consortium. However, the county cannot on its own include the whole county in the consortium. A unit of local government located within the non-urban county that wishes to participate as a member of the consortium must sign the HOME consortium agreement.
(d) If the representative unit of general local government distributes HOME funds to member units of general local government, the representative unit is responsible for applying to the member units of general local government the same requirements as are applicable to subrecipients.
(e) The consortium's qualification as a unit of general local government continues for a period of three successive Federal fiscal years, or until HUD revokes its designation as a participating jurisdiction, or until an urban county member fails to requalify under the CDBG program as an urban county for a fiscal year included in the consortium's qualification period, or the consortium fails to receive a HOME allocation for the first Federal fiscal year of the consortium's qualification period and does not request to be considered to receive a HOME allocation in each of the subsequent two years. However, if a member urban county's three year CDBG qualification cycle is not the same as the consortium, the consortium may elect a shorter qualification period than three years to synchronize with the urban county's qualification period. During the period of qualification, additional units of general local government may join the consortium, but no included unit of general local government may withdraw from the consortium. See 24 CFR part 91, subpart E, for consolidated plan requirements for consortia, including the requirement that all members of the consortia must be on the same program year.
(f) The consortium agreement may, at the option of its member units of general local government, contain a provision that authorizes automatic renewals for the successive qualification period of three Federal fiscal years. The provision authorizing automatic renewal must require the lead consortium member to give the consortium members written notice of their right to elect not to continue participation for the new qualification period.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.101 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.102
Participation threshold amount.
(a) To be eligible to become a participating jurisdiction, a unit of general local government must have a formula allocation under § 92.50 that is equal to or greater than $750,000; or
(b) If a unit of general local government's formula allocation is less than $750,000, HUD must find:
(1) The unit of general local government has a local PHA and has demonstrated a capacity to carry out the provisions of this part, as evidenced by satisfactory performance under one or more HUD-administered programs that provide assistance for activities comparable to the eligible activities under this part; and
(2) The State has authorized HUD to transfer to the unit of general local government a portion of the State's allocation or the State, the unit of general local government, or both, has made available its own resources such that the sum of the amounts transferred or made available are equal to or greater than the difference between the unit of general local government's formula allocation and $750,000.
(c) In fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion for this part, $500,000 is substituted for $750,000 each time it appears in this section.
§ 92.103
Notification of intent to participate.
(a) Not later than 30 days after receiving notice of its formula allocation amount, a jurisdiction must notify HUD in writing of its intention to become a participating jurisdiction.
(b) A unit of general local government that has a formula allocation of less than $750,000, or less than $500,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion for this part, must submit, with its notice, one or more of the following, as appropriate, as evidence that it has met the threshold allocation requirements in § 92.102(b):
(1) Authorization from the State to transfer a portion of its allocation to the unit of general local government;
(2) A letter from the governor or designee indicating that the required funds have been approved and budgeted for the unit of general local government;
(3) A letter from the chief executive officer of the unit of general local government indicating that the required funds have been approved and budgeted.
§ 92.104
Submission of a consolidated plan.
A jurisdiction that has not submitted a consolidated plan to HUD must submit to HUD, not later than 90 calendar days after providing notification under § 92.103, a consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
[85 FR 47910, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 92.105
Designation as a participating jurisdiction.
When a jurisdiction has complied with the requirements of §§ 92.102 through 92.104 and HUD has approved the jurisdiction's consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR part 91, HUD will designate the jurisdiction as a participating jurisdiction.
§ 92.106
Continuous designation as a participating jurisdiction.
Once a State or unit of general local government is designated a participating jurisdiction, it remains a participating jurisdiction for subsequent fiscal years and the requirements of §§ 92.102 through 92.105 do not apply, unless HUD revokes the designation in accordance with § 92.107.
§ 92.107
Revocation of designation as a participating jurisdiction.
HUD may revoke a jurisdiction's designation as a participating jurisdiction if:
(a) HUD finds, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing as provided in § 92.552(b) that the jurisdiction is unwilling or unable to carry out the provisions of this part, including failure to meet matching contribution requirements; or
(b) The jurisdiction's formula allocation falls below $750,000 (or below $500,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion for this part) for three consecutive years, below $625,000 (or below $410,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion for this part) for two consecutive years, or the jurisdiction does not receive a formula allocation in any one year.
(c) When HUD revokes a participating jurisdiction's designation as a participating jurisdiction, HUD will reallocate any remaining funds in the jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund established under § 92.500 in accordance with § 92.451.

# Subpart D—Submission Requirements
§ 92.150
Submission requirements.
In order to receive its HOME allocation, a participating jurisdiction must
submit a consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR part 91. That part includes requirements for the content of the consolidated plan, the process of developing the consolidated plan, including citizen participation, the submission date, HUD approval, and amendments.

# Subpart E—Program Requirements
§ 92.200
Private-public partnership.
Each participating jurisdiction must make all reasonable efforts to maximize participation by the private sector in accordance with section 221 of the Act.
§ 92.201
Distribution of assistance.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Local.
(1) Each local participating jurisdiction must, insofar as is feasible, distribute HOME funds geographically within its boundaries and among different categories of housing need, according to the priorities of housing need identified in its approved consolidated plan.
(2) The participating jurisdiction may only invest its HOME funds in eligible projects within its boundaries, or in jointly funded projects within the boundaries of contiguous local jurisdictions which serve residents from both jurisdictions. For a project to be jointly funded, both jurisdictions must make a financial contribution to the project. A jurisdiction's financial contribution may take the form of a grant or loan (including a loan of funds that comes from other federal sources and that are in the jurisdiction's control, such as CDBG program funds) or relief of a significant tax or fee (such as waiver of impact fees, property taxes, or other taxes or fees customarily imposed on projects within the jurisdiction).
(b)
State.
(1) Each State participating jurisdiction is responsible for distributing HOME funds throughout the State according to the State's assessment of the geographical distribution of the housing needs within the State, as identified in the State's approved consolidated plan. The State must distribute HOME funds to rural areas in amounts that take into account the non-metropolitan share of the State's total population and objective measures of rural housing need, such as poverty and substandard housing, as set forth in the State's approved consolidated plan. To the extent the need is within the boundaries of a participating unit of general local government, the State and the unit of general local government shall coordinate activities to address that need.
(2) A State may carry out its own HOME program without active participation of units of general local government or may distribute HOME funds to units of general local government to carry out HOME programs in which both the State and all or some of the units of general local government perform specified program functions. A unit of general local government designated by a State to receive HOME funds from a State is a State recipient.
(3)(i) A State that uses State recipients to perform program functions shall ensure that the State recipients use HOME funds in accordance with the requirements of this part and other applicable laws. The State may require the State recipient to comply with requirements established by the State or may permit the State recipient to establish its own requirements to comply with this part.
(ii) The State shall conduct such reviews and audit of its State recipients as may be necessary or appropriate to determine whether the State recipient has committed and expended the HOME funds in the United States Treasury account as required by § 92.500, and has met the requirements of this part, particularly eligible activities, income targeting, affordability, and matching contribution requirements.
(4) A State and local participating jurisdiction may jointly fund a project within the boundaries of the local participating jurisdiction. The State may provide the HOME funds to the project or it may provide the HOME funds to the local participating jurisdiction to fund the project.
(5) A State may fund projects on Indian reservations located within the State provided that the State includes Indian reservations in its consolidated plan.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44666, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.201 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.202
Site and neighborhood standards.
(a)
General.
A participating jurisdiction must administer its HOME program in a manner that provides housing that is suitable from the standpoint of facilitating and furthering full compliance with the applicable provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d—2000d-4), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.,
E.O. 11063 (3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 652), and HUD regulations issued pursuant thereto; and promotes greater choice of housing opportunities.
(b)
New rental housing.
In carrying out the site and neighborhood requirements with respect to new construction of rental housing, a participating jurisdiction is responsible for making the determination that proposed sites for new construction meet the requirements in 24 CFR 983.55(e)(2) and (3).
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 78 FR 44666, July 24, 2013; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 92.203
Income determinations.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Methods of determining annual income.
The HOME program has income targeting requirements for the HOME program and for HOME projects. Therefore, the participating jurisdiction must determine each family is income eligible by determining the family's annual income.
(1) If a family is applying for or living in a HOME-assisted rental unit, and the unit is assisted by a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, then a participating jurisdiction must accept the public housing agency, owner, or rental subsidy provider's determination of the family's annual income and adjusted income under that program's rules.
(2) If a family is applying for or living in a HOME-assisted rental unit, and the family is assisted by a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program (
e.g.,
housing choice vouchers, etc.), then a participating jurisdiction may accept the rental assistance provider's determination of the family's annual income and adjusted income under that program's rules.
(3) In all other cases, the participating jurisdiction must calculate annual income in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and calculate adjusted income in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
Required documentation for annual income calculations.
(1) For families who are tenants in HOME-assisted housing and not receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance, the participating jurisdiction must initially determine annual income using the method in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. For subsequent income determinations during the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction may use any one of the following methods in accordance with § 92.252(h):
(i) Examine at least 2 months of source documents evidencing annual income (
e.g.,
wage statement, interest statement, unemployment compensation statement) for the family.
(ii) Obtain from the family a written statement of the amount of the family's annual income and family size, along with a certification that the information is complete and accurate. The certification must state that the family will provide source documents upon request.
(iii) Obtain a written statement from the administrator of a government program under which the family receives benefits and which examines each year the annual income of the family. The statement must indicate the tenant's family size and state the amount of the family's annual income; or alternatively, the statement must indicate the current dollar limit for very low- or low-income families for the family size of the tenant and state that the tenant's annual income does not exceed this limit.
(2) For all other families (
i.e.,
homeowners receiving rehabilitation assistance, homebuyers, and recipients of HOME tenant-based rental assistance), the participating jurisdiction must determine annual income by examining at least 2 months of source documents evidencing annual income (
e.g.,
wage
statement, interest statement, unemployment compensation statement) for the family.
(c)
Defining income for eligibility.
When determining whether a family is income eligible, the participating jurisdiction must use one of the following two definitions of “annual income”:
(1) Annual income as defined at §§ 5.609(a) and (b) of this title (except when determining the income of a homeowner for an owner-occupied rehabilitation project, the value of the homeowner's principal residence may be excluded from the calculation of net family assets, as defined in § 5.603 of this title); or
(2) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes.
(d)
Using income definitions.
The participating jurisdiction may use only one definition of annual income for each HOME-assisted program (
e.g.,
downpayment assistance program) that it administers and only one definition for each rental housing project. A participating jurisdiction may use either of the definitions of “annual income” permitted in paragraph (c) of this section. For rental housing projects containing units assisted by a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program or for rental housing projects where a participating jurisdiction is accepting a public housing agency, owner, or rental assistance provider's determination of annual and adjusted income for tenants receiving Federal tenant-based rental assistance, the participating jurisdiction must calculate annual income in accordance with paragraph (c)(i) of this section so that only one definition of annual income is used in the rental housing project.
(e)
Determining family composition and projecting income.
(1) The participating jurisdiction must calculate the annual income of the family by projecting the prevailing rate of income of the family at the time the participating jurisdiction determines that the family is income eligible. Annual income includes income from all persons in the household, except live-in aides, foster children, and foster adults. Income or asset enhancement derived from the HOME-assisted project shall not be considered in calculating annual income. Families may use the certification process in § 5.618 of this title to certify that their net family assets are below the threshold for imputing income used in § 5.609(a)(2) of this title, as applicable. Families using the certification process in § 5.618 of this title that are homeowners applying for an owner-occupied rehabilitation project may also exclude the value of the homeowner's principal residence from the calculation of their Net Family Assets for purposes of the certification. For families living in HOME-assisted rental housing units, any rental assistance provided to the family under a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program or any Federal or State project-based rental subsidy provided to the HOME rental housing unit shall not be counted as tenant income for purposes of determining annual income.
(2) The participating jurisdiction is not required to re-examine the family's income at the time the HOME assistance is provided, unless more than six months has elapsed since the participating jurisdiction determined that the family qualified as income eligible.
(3) The participating jurisdiction must follow the requirements in § 5.617 of this title when making subsequent income determinations of persons with disabilities who are tenants in HOME-assisted rental housing or who receive HOME tenant-based rental assistance. This paragraph (e)(3) will lapse on January 1, 2026.
(f)
Determining Adjusted Income.
(1) The three cases where a participating jurisdiction must calculate a tenant's adjusted income are as follows:
(i) A participating jurisdiction must calculate the adjusted income of a family receiving tenant-based rental assistance to determine the amount of assistance in accordance with § 92.209(h). To calculate the family's adjusted income for a family in tenant-based rental assistance, the participating jurisdiction must apply the deductions in § 5.611(a) of this title and may choose to grant financial hardship exemptions in accordance with the process described in §§ 5.611(c) through (e) of this title.
(ii) A participating jurisdiction must calculate a tenant's adjusted income if the tenant is living in a Low HOME Rent unit and is subject to the provisions of § 92.252(b)(2)(i). To calculate a family's adjusted income to determine the Low HOME Rent in accordance with § 92.252(b)(2)(i), a participating jurisdiction must apply the deductions in § 5.611(a) of this title and may choose to grant financial hardship exemptions in accordance with the process described in §§ 5.611(c) through (e) of this title.
(iii) A participating jurisdiction must calculate a tenant's adjusted income if the tenant is over-income, and rent must be recalculated in accordance with § 92.252(i)(2). To calculate the family's adjusted income for an over-income family, the participating jurisdiction must apply the deductions in § 5.611(a) of this title.
(2) If a unit is assisted by a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, then a participating jurisdiction is not required to calculate the family's adjusted income and must accept the public housing agency, owner, or rental subsidy provider's determination of adjusted income under that program's rules.
[88 FR 9662, Feb. 14, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 866, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.203 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.204
Applicability of requirements to entities that receive a reallocation of HOME funds, other than participating jurisdictions.
(a) Jurisdictions other than participating jurisdictions and community housing development organizations receiving competitive reallocations from HUD are subject to the same requirements in subpart E (Program Requirements), subpart F (Project Requirements), subpart K (Program Administration), and subpart L (Performance Reviews and Sanctions) of this part as participating jurisdictions, except for the following:
(1) Subpart E (Program Requirements): the matching contribution requirements in § 92.218 through § 92.221 do not apply.
(2) Subpart K (Program Administration):
(i) Section 92.500 (The HOME Investment Trust Fund) does not apply. HUD will establish a HOME account in the United States Treasury and the HOME funds must be used for approved activities. A local account must be established for program income. HUD will recapture HOME funds in the HOME Treasury account by the amount of:
(A) Any funds that are not committed within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the entity of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement;
(B) Any funds that are not expended within five years after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the entity of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement; and
(C) Any penalties assessed by HUD under § 92.552.
(ii) Section 92.502 (Program disbursement and information system) applies, except that references to the HOME Investment Trust Fund mean HOME account and the reference to 24 CFR part 58 does not apply. In addition, § 92.502(c) does not apply, and instead, compliance with Treasury Circular No. 1075 (31 CFR part 205) and 2 CFR 200.305 is required.
(iii) Section 92.503 (Program income, repayments, and recaptured funds) applies, except that program income may be retained provided the funds are used for eligible activities in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(3) Section 92.504 (Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspections) applies, except that the written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements in this section.
(4) Section 92.508 (Recordkeeping) applies with respect to the records that relate to the requirements of this section.
(5) Section 92.509 (Performance reports) applies, except that a performance report is required only after completion of the approved projects.
(b) The requirements in subpart H (Other Federal Requirements) of this part apply as written, except that jurisdictions and community housing development organizations receiving reallocations from HUD must comply
with affirmative marketing requirements, labor requirements, and lead-based paint requirements, applicable to participating jurisdictions.
(c) Subpart B (Allocation Formula), subpart C (Consortia; Designation and Revocation of Designation as a Participating Jurisdiction), and subpart G (Community Housing Development Organizations) of this part do not apply.
(d) Subpart A (General) applies, except that for the definitions of
commitment, program income,
and
subrecipient,
“participating jurisdiction” means jurisdiction or community housing development organization receiving the competitive reallocation.
[69 FR 15673, Mar. 26, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Eligible and Prohibited Activities
§ 92.205
Eligible activities: General.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 867, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Eligible activities.
(1) HOME funds may be used by a participating jurisdiction to provide incentives to develop and support affordable rental housing and homeownership affordability through the acquisition (including assistance to homebuyers), new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of nonluxury housing with suitable amenities, including real property acquisition, site improvements, conversion, demolition, and other expenses, including financing costs, relocation expenses of any displaced persons, families, businesses, or organizations; to provide tenant-based rental assistance, including security deposits; to provide payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs; and to provide for the payment of operating expenses of community housing development organizations. The housing must be permanent or transitional housing. The specific eligible costs for these activities are set forth in §§ 92.206 through 92.209. The activities and costs are eligible only if the housing meets the property standards in § 92.251 upon project completion.
(2) Acquisition of vacant land or demolition must be undertaken only with respect to a particular housing project intended to provide affordable housing within the time frames established in paragraph (2) of the definition of “commitment” in § 92.2.
(3) Conversion of an existing structure to affordable housing is rehabilitation, unless the conversion entails adding one or more units beyond the existing walls, in which case, the project is new construction for purposes of this part.
(4)
Manufactured housing.
HOME funds may be used to purchase and/or rehabilitate a manufactured housing unit, or purchase the land upon which a manufactured housing unit is located. Except for existing, owner-occupied manufactured housing that is rehabilitated with HOME funds, the manufactured housing unit must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing unit owner or land for which the manufactured housing owner has a lease for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability.
(b)
Forms of assistance.
(1) A participating jurisdiction may invest HOME funds as equity investments, interest-bearing loans or advances, non-interest-bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies consistent with the purposes of this part, deferred payment loans, grants, or other forms of assistance that HUD determines to be consistent with the purposes of this part and specifically approves in writing. Each participating jurisdiction has the right to establish the terms of assistance, subject to the requirements of this part.
(2) A participating jurisdiction may invest HOME funds to guarantee loans made by lenders and, if required, the participating jurisdiction may establish a loan guarantee account with HOME funds. The HOME funds may be used to guarantee the timely payment of principal and interest or payment of the outstanding principal and interest upon foreclosure of the loan. The amount of the loan guarantee account must be based on a reasonable estimate of the default rate on the guaranteed loans, but under no circumstances may the amount on deposit exceed 20 percent of the total outstanding principal amount guaranteed; except that the account may include a reasonable minimum balance. While loan funds guaranteed with HOME funds are subject to all HOME requirements, funds which
are used to repay the guaranteed loans are not.
(c)
Minimum amount of assistance.
The minimum amount of HOME funds that must be invested in a project involving rental housing or homeownership is $1,000 times the number of HOME-assisted units in the project.
(d)
Multi-unit projects.
HOME funds may be used to assist one or more housing units in a multi-unit project.
(1) Only the actual HOME eligible development costs of the assisted units may be charged to the HOME program. If the assisted and nonassisted units are not comparable, the actual costs may be determined based on a method of cost allocation. If the assisted and non- assisted units are comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms, the actual cost of the HOME- assisted units can be determined by prorating the total HOME eligible development costs of the project so that the proportion of the total development costs charged to the HOME program does not exceed the proportion of the HOME-assisted units in the project.
(2) After project completion, the number of units designated as HOME- assisted may be reduced only in accordance with § 92.210, except that in a project consisting of all HOME- assisted units, one unit may be subsequently converted to an on-site manager's unit if the participating jurisdiction determines that the conversion will contribute to the stability or effectiveness of the housing and that, notwithstanding the loss of one HOME-assisted unit, the costs charged to the HOME program do not exceed the actual costs of the HOME- assisted units and do not exceed the subsidy limit in § 92.250(b).
(e)
Terminated projects.
A HOME assisted project that is terminated before completion, either voluntarily or involuntarily, constitutes an ineligible activity, and the participating jurisdiction must repay any HOME funds invested in the project to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund in accordance with § 92.503(b) (except for project- specific assistance to community housing development organizations as provided in § 92.301(a)(3) and (b)(3)).
(1) A project that does not meet the requirements for affordable housing must be terminated and the participating jurisdiction must repay all HOME funds invested in the project to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund in accordance with § 92.503(b).
(2) If a participating jurisdiction does not complete a project within 4 years of the date of commitment of funds, the project is considered to be terminated and the participating jurisdiction must repay all funds invested in the project to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund in accordance with § 92.503(b). The participating jurisdiction may request a one-year extension of this deadline in writing, by submitting information about the status of the project, steps being taken to overcome any obstacles to completion, proof of adequate funding to complete the project, and a schedule with milestones for completion of the project for HUD's review and approval.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 78 FR 44667, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 867, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.205 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.206
Eligible project costs.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 867, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
HOME funds may be used to pay the following eligible costs:
(a)
Development hard costs.
The actual cost of constructing or rehabilitating housing. These costs include the following:
(1) For new construction projects, costs to meet the new construction standards in § 92.251;
(2) For rehabilitation, costs to meet the property standards for rehabilitation projects in § 92.251;
(3) For both new construction and rehabilitation projects, costs:
(i) To demolish existing structures;
(ii) To make utility connections including off-site connections from the property line to the adjacent street; and
(iii) To make improvements to the project site that are in keeping with improvements of surrounding, standard
projects. Site improvements may include on-site roads and sewer and water lines necessary to the development of the project. The project site is the property, owned by the project owner, upon which the project is located.
(4) For both new construction and rehabilitation of multifamily rental housing projects, costs to construct or rehabilitate laundry and community facilities that are located within the same building as the housing and which are for the use of the project residents and their guests.
(5) Costs to make utility connections or to make improvements to the project site, in accordance with the provisions of § 92.206(a)(3) (ii) and (iii) are also eligible in connection with acquisition of standard housing.
(b)
Refinancing costs.
The cost to refinance existing debt secured by a housing project that is being rehabilitated with HOME funds. These costs include the following:
(1) For single-family (one- to four- family) owner-occupied housing, when loaning HOME funds to rehabilitate the housing, if the refinancing is necessary to reduce the overall housing costs to the borrower and make the housing more affordable and if the rehabilitation cost is greater than the amount of debt that is refinanced.
(2) For single family or multifamily projects, when loaning HOME funds to rehabilitate the units if refinancing is necessary to permit or continue affordability under § 92.252. The participating jurisdiction must establish refinancing guidelines and state them in its consolidated plan described in 24 CFR part 91. Regardless of the amount of HOME funds invested, the minimum affordability period shall be 15 years. The guidelines shall describe the conditions under which the participating jurisdictions will refinance existing debt. At minimum, the guidelines must:
(i) Demonstrate that rehabilitation is the primary eligible activity and ensure that this requirement is met by establishing a minimum level of rehabilitation per unit or a required ratio between rehabilitation and refinancing;
(ii) Require a review of management practices to demonstrate that disinvestment in the property has not occurred, that the long term needs of the project can be met and that the feasibility of serving the targeted population over an extended affordability period can be demonstrated;
(iii) State whether the new investment is being made to maintain current affordable units, create additional affordable units, or both;
(iv) Specify the required period of affordability, whether it is the minimum 15 years or longer;
(v) Specify whether the investment of HOME funds may be jurisdiction-wide or limited to a specific geographic area, such as a neighborhood identified in a neighborhood revitalization strategy under 24 CFR 91.215(e)(2) or a Federally designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community; and
(vi) State that HOME funds cannot be used to refinance single family or multifamily housing loans made or insured by any Federal program, including CDBG.
(c)
Acquisition costs.
Costs of acquiring improved or unimproved real property, including acquisition by homebuyers.
(d)
Related soft costs.
Other reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the owner or participating jurisdiction and associated with the financing, or development (or both) of new construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of housing assisted with HOME funds. These costs include, but are not limited to:
(1) Architectural, engineering, or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups. The costs may be paid if they were incurred not more than 24 months before the date that HOME funds are committed to the project and the participating jurisdiction expressly permits HOME funds to be used to pay the costs in the written agreement committing the funds.
(2) Costs to process and settle the financing for a project, such as private lender origination fees, credit reports, fees for title evidence, fees for recordation and filing of legal documents, building permits, attorneys fees, private appraisal fees and fees for an independent cost estimate, builders or developers fees.
(3) Costs of a project audit, including certification of costs performed by a certified public accountant, that the participating jurisdiction may require with respect to the development of the project.
(4) Costs to provide information services such as affirmative marketing and fair housing information to prospective homeowners and tenants as required by § 92.351.
(5) For new construction or rehabilitation, the cost of funding an initial operating deficit reserve, which is a reserve to meet any shortfall in project income during the period of project rent-up (not to exceed 18 months) and which may only be used to pay project operating expenses, scheduled payments to a replacement reserve, and debt service. Any HOME funds placed in an operating deficit reserve that remain unexpended after the period of project rent-up may be retained for project reserves if permitted by the participating jurisdiction.
(6) Staff and overhead costs of the participating jurisdiction directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing inspections, and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers, e.g., housing counseling, may be charged to project costs only if the project is funded and the individual becomes the owner or tenant of the HOME-assisted project. For multi-unit projects, such costs must be allocated among HOME- assisted units in a reasonable manner and documented. Although these costs may be charged as project costs, these costs (except housing counseling) cannot be charged to or paid by low-income families.
(7) For both new construction and rehabilitation, costs for the payment of impact fees that are charged for all projects within a jurisdiction.
(8) Costs of environmental review and release of funds in accordance with 24 CFR part 58 which are directly related to the project.
(e)
Community housing development organization costs.
Eligible costs of project-specific assistance are set forth in § 92.301.
(f)
Relocation costs.
The cost of relocation payments and other relocation assistance to persons displaced by the project are eligible costs.
(1) Relocation payments include replacement housing payments, payments for moving expenses, and payments for reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred in the temporary relocation of persons.
(2) Other relocation assistance means staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship.
(g)
Costs relating to payment of loans.
If the HOME funds are not used to directly pay a cost specified in this section, but are used to pay off a construction loan, bridge financing loan, or guaranteed loan, the payment of principal and interest for such loan is an eligible cost only if:
(1) The loan was used for eligible costs specified in this section, and
(2) The HOME assistance is part of the original financing for the project and the project meets the requirements of this part.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999; 78 FR 44667, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 867, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.206 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.207
Eligible administrative and planning costs.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
A participating jurisdiction may expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HOME program and ADDI, an amount of HOME funds that is not more than ten percent of the sum of the Fiscal Year HOME basic formula allocation plus any funds received in accordance with § 92.102(b) to meet or exceed participation threshold requirements that Fiscal Year. A state that transfers any HOME funds in accordance with § 92.102(b) must exclude these funds in calculating the amount it may expend for administrative and planning costs. A participating jurisdiction may also
expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HOME program and the ADDI described in subpart M of this part, a sum up to ten percent of the program income deposited into its local account or received and reported by its state recipients or subrecipients during the program year. A participating jurisdiction may expend such funds directly or may authorize its state recipients or subrecipients, if any, to expend all or a portion of such funds, provided total expenditures for planning and administrative costs do not exceed the maximum allowable amount. Reasonable administrative and planning costs include:
(a)
General management, oversight and coordination.
Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following:
(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the participating jurisdiction's staff. In charging costs to this category the participating jurisdiction may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose
primary
responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes
any
program administration assignments. The participating jurisdiction may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments:
(i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements;
(ii) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with entities receiving HOME funds;
(iii) Monitoring HOME-assisted housing for progress and compliance with program requirements;
(iv) Developing agreements and monitoring housing not assisted with HOME funds that the participating jurisdiction designates as a matching contribution in accordance with § 92.219(b) for compliance with applicable program requirements;
(v) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD;
(vi) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings;
(vii) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and
(viii) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section;
(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program;
(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services;
(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space; and
(5) Costs of administering tenant-based rental assistance programs.
(b)
Staff and overhead.
Staff and overhead costs of the participating jurisdiction directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, inspections, lead-based paint evaluations (visual assessments, inspections, and risk assessments) and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers (e.g., housing counseling); and staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. These costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs under § 92.206(d)(6) and (f)(2), at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction; however, these costs (except housing counseling) cannot be charged to or paid by the low-income families.
(c)
Public information.
The provision of information and other resources to
residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of projects being assisted with HOME funds.
(d)
Fair housing.
Activities to affirmatively further fair housing in accordance with the participating jurisdiction's certification under 24 CFR part 91.
(e)
Indirect Costs.
Indirect costs may be charged to the HOME program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(f)
Preparation of the consolidated plan.
Preparation of the consolidated plan required under 24 CFR part 91. Preparation includes the costs of public hearings, consultations, and publication.
(g)
Other Federal requirements.
Costs of complying with the Federal requirements in subpart H of this part. Project-specific environmental review costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs in accordance with § 92.206(d)(8), at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction.
(h)
Preserving affordable housing already assisted with HOME funds.
Costs specified under § 92.254(a)(9) may be charged as an administrative cost or may be charged to the project as provided in § 92.254(a)(9). In addition, the foreclosure cost of a HOME-assisted rental housing project with a HOME loan in default is an eligible administrative cost.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44668, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.207 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.208
Eligible community housing development organization (CHDO) operating expense and capacity building costs.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) Up to 5 percent of a participating jurisdiction's fiscal year HOME allocation may be used for the operating expenses of community housing development organizations (CHDOs). This amount is in addition to amounts set aside for housing projects that are owned, developed, or sponsored by CHDOs as described in § 92.300(a). These funds may not be used to pay operating expenses incurred by a CHDO acting as a subrecipient or contractor under the HOME Program. Operating expenses means reasonable and necessary costs for the operation of the community housing development organization. Such costs include salaries, wages, and other employee compensation and benefits; employee education, training, and travel; rent; utilities; communication costs; taxes; insurance; equipment; materials; and supplies. The requirements and limitations on the receipt of these funds by CHDOs are set forth in § 92.300(e) and (f).
(b) HOME funds may be used for capacity building costs under § 92.300(b).
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44668, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.208 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.209
Tenant-based rental assistance: Eligible costs and requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Eligible costs.
Eligible costs are the rental assistance and security deposit payments made to provide tenant-based rental assistance for a family pursuant to this section. Eligible costs also include utility deposit assistance, but only if this assistance is provided with tenant-based rental assistance or security deposit payment. Administration of tenant-based rental assistance is eligible only under general management oversight and coordination at § 92.207(a), except that the costs of inspecting the housing and determining the income eligibility of the family are eligible as costs of the tenant-based rental assistance.
(b)
General requirement.
A participating jurisdiction may use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance only if the participating jurisdiction makes the certification about inclusion of this type of assistance in its consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR 91.225(d)(1), 91.325(d)(1), or 91.425(a)(2)(i), and specifies local market conditions that lead to the choice of this option.
(c)
Tenant selection.
The participating jurisdiction must select low-income families in accordance with written
tenant selection policies and criteria that are based on local housing needs and priorities established in the participating jurisdiction's consolidated plan.
(1)
Low-income families.
Tenant-based rental assistance may only be provided to very low- and low-income families. The participating jurisdiction must determine that the family is very low- or low-income before the assistance is provided. During the period of assistance, the participating jurisdiction must annually determine that the family continues to be low-income.
(2)
Targeted assistance.
(i) The participating jurisdiction may establish a preference for individuals with special needs (e.g., homeless persons or elderly persons) or persons with disabilities. The participating jurisdiction may offer, in conjunction with a tenant-based rental assistance program, particular types of nonmandatory services that may be most appropriate for persons with a special need or a particular disability. Generally, tenant-based rental assistance and the related services should be made available to all persons with special needs or disabilities who can benefit from such services. Participation may be limited to persons with a specific disability if necessary to provide as effective housing, aid, benefit, or services as those provided to others in accordance with 24 CFR 8.4(b)(1)(iv).
(ii) The participating jurisdiction may also provide a preference for a specific category of individuals with disabilities (e.g., persons with HIV/AIDS or chronic mental illness) if the specific category is identified in the participating jurisdiction's consolidated plan as having unmet need and the preference is needed to narrow the gap in benefits and services received by such persons.
(iii)
Self-sufficiency program.
The participating jurisdiction may require the family to participate in a self- sufficiency program as a condition of selection for assistance. The family's failure to continue participation in the self-sufficiency program is not a basis for terminating the assistance; however, renewal of the assistance may be conditioned on participation in the program. Tenants living in a HOME- assisted rental project who receive tenant-based rental assistance as relocation assistance must not be required to participate in a self- sufficiency program as a condition of receiving assistance.
(iv)
Homebuyer program.
HOME tenant-based rental assistance may assist a tenant who has been identified as a potential low-income homebuyer through a lease-purchase agreement, with monthly rental payments for a period up to 36 months (i.e., 24 months, with a 12-month renewal in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section). The HOME tenant-based rental assistance payment may not be used to accumulate a downpayment or closing costs for the purchase; however, all or a portion of the homebuyer-tenant's monthly contribution toward rent may be set aside for this purpose. If a participating jurisdiction determines that the tenant has met the lease-purchase criteria and is ready to assume ownership, HOME funds may be provided for downpayment assistance in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(v) Preferences cannot be administered in a manner that limits the opportunities of persons on any basis prohibited by the laws listed under 24 CFR 5.105(a). For example, a participating jurisdiction may not determine that persons given a preference under the program are therefore prohibited from applying for or participating in other programs or forms of assistance. Persons who are eligible for a preference must have the opportunity to participate in all programs of the participating jurisdiction, including programs that are not separate or different.
(3)
Existing tenants in the HOME-assisted projects.
A participating jurisdiction may select low-income families currently residing in housing units that are designated for rehabilitation or acquisition under the participating jurisdiction's HOME program. Participating jurisdictions using HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance programs may establish local preferences for the provision of this assistance. Families so selected may use the tenant-based assistance in the rehabilitated or acquired housing unit or in other qualified housing.
(d)
Portability of assistance.
A participating jurisdiction may require the
family to use the tenant-based assistance within the participating jurisdiction's boundaries or may permit the family to use the assistance outside its boundaries.
(e)
Term of rental assistance contract.
The term of the rental assistance contract providing assistance with HOME funds may not exceed 24 months, but may be renewed, subject to the availability of HOME funds. The term of the rental assistance contract must begin on the first day of the term of the lease. For a rental assistance contract between a participating jurisdiction and an owner, the term of the contract must terminate on termination of the lease. For a rental assistance contract between a participating jurisdiction and a family, the term of the contract need not end on termination of the lease, but no payments may be made after termination of the lease until a family enters into a new lease.
(f)
Rent reasonableness.
The participating jurisdiction must disapprove a lease if the rent is not reasonable, based on rents that are charged for comparable unassisted rental units.
(g)
Tenant protections.
The tenant must have a lease that complies with the requirements in § 92.253 (a) and (b).
(h)
Maximum subsidy.
(1) The amount of the monthly assistance that a participating jurisdiction may pay to, or on behalf of, a family may not exceed the difference between a rent standard for the unit size established by the participating jurisdiction and 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must establish a minimum tenant contribution to rent.
(3) The participating jurisdiction's rent standard for a unit size must be based on:
(i) Local market conditions; or
(ii) The Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program (24 CFR part 982).
(i)
Housing standards.
Housing occupied by a family receiving tenant-based rental assistance under this section must meet the participating jurisdiction's property standards under § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must inspect the housing initially and re-inspect it annually.
(j)
Security deposits.
(1) A participating jurisdiction may use HOME funds provided for tenant-based rental assistance to provide loans or grants to very low- and low-income families for security deposits for rental of dwelling units whether or not the participating jurisdiction provides any other tenant-based rental assistance under this section.
(2) The relevant State or local definition of “security deposit” in the jurisdiction where the unit is located is applicable for the purposes of this part, except that the amount of HOME funds that may be provided for a security deposit may not exceed the equivalent of two month's rent for the unit.
(3) Only the prospective tenant may apply for HOME security deposit assistance, although the participating jurisdiction may pay the funds directly to the tenant or to the landlord.
(4) HOME funds for security deposits may be provided as a grant or as a loan. If they are provided as a loan, the loan repayments are program income to be used in accordance with § 92.503.
(5) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (i) of this section are applicable to HOME security deposit assistance, except that income determinations pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and Housing Quality Standard inspections pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section are required only at the time the security deposit assistance is provided.
(k)
Program operation.
A tenant-based rental assistance program must be operated consistent with the requirements of this section. The participating jurisdiction may operate the program itself, or may contract with a PHA or other entity with the capacity to operate a rental assistance program. The tenant-based rental assistance may be provided through an assistance contract to an owner that leases a unit to an assisted family or directly to the family. In either case, the participating jurisdiction (or entity operating the program) must approve the lease.
(l)
Use of Section 8 assistance.
In any case where assistance under section 8 of the 1937 Act becomes available, recipients of tenant-based rental assistance under this part will qualify for tenant selection preferences to the same extent as when they received the
HOME tenant-based rental assistance under this part.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 78 FR 44668, July 24, 2013; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.209 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.210
Troubled HOME-assisted rental housing projects.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) The provisions of this section apply only to an existing HOME- assisted rental project that, within the HOME period of affordability, is no longer financially viable. For purposes of this section, a HOME assisted rental project is no longer financially viable if its operating costs significantly exceed its operating revenue. HUD may approve one or both of the actions described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to strategically preserve a rental project after consideration of market needs, available resources, and the likelihood of long-term viability of the project.
(b) Notwithstanding § 92.214, a participating jurisdiction may request and HUD may permit, pursuant to a written memorandum of agreement, a participating jurisdiction to invest additional HOME funds in the existing HOME-assisted rental project. The total HOME funding for the project (original investment plus additional investment) must not exceed the per-unit subsidy limit in § 92.250(a). The use of HOME funds may include, but is not limited to, rehabilitation of the HOME units and recapitalization of project reserves for the HOME units (to fund capital costs). If additional HOME funds are invested, HUD may require the period of affordability to be extended, based on such considerations as the amount of additional HOME funds or additional units.
(c) HUD Headquarters may, through written approval, permit the participating jurisdiction to reduce the number of HOME-assisted units, if the project contains more than the minimum number of units required to be designated as HOME-assisted under § 92.205(d). In determining whether to permit a reduction in the number of HOME-assisted units, HUD will take into account the required period of affordability and the amount of HOME assistance provided to the project.
[78 FR 44669, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.210 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.212
Pre-award costs.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
Before the effective date of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement, the participating jurisdiction may incur costs which may be charged to the HOME allocation after the award of the HOME allocation, provided the costs are in compliance with the requirements of this part (including environmental review requirements) and with the statutory and regulatory requirements in effect at the time the costs are charged to the HOME allocation.
(b)
Administrative and planning costs.
Eligible administrative and planning costs may be incurred as of the beginning of the participating jurisdiction's consolidated program year (see 24 CFR 91.10) or the date the consolidated plan describing the HOME allocation to which the costs will be charged is received by HUD, whichever is later.
(c)
Project costs.
Eligible project costs may be incurred during the current program year in an amount not to exceed 25% of the current HOME allocation amount, to be charged to the following year's HOME allocation. Before incurring the pre-award costs, the participating jurisdiction must comply with its citizen participation plan requirements addressing 24 CFR 91.105(b)(2), (4), (5) and (g) (local governments) or 24 CFR 91.115(b)(2), (4), (5) and (f) (States). In lieu of a full action plan, the participating jurisdiction may develop a mini-action plan which describes the proposed pre-award projects and costs in accordance with 24 CFR 91.220(c) and includes, if applicable, 24 CFR 91.220(g)(2) (local governments) or 24 CFR 91.320(c) and, if applicable, 24 CFR 91.320(g)(2) (States). The mini-action plan must state that HOME funding for the project(s) is subject to the future availability of HOME funds. The subsequent action plan (i.e., action plan for the HOME allocation to
which the costs will be charged) must also include the use of HOME funds contained in the mini-action plan.
(d)
Subrecipient or State recipient costs.
The participating jurisdiction may authorize its subrecipient or State recipient to incur pre-award costs in accordance with the requirements of this section. The authorization must be in writing.
(e)
Other pre-agreement costs.
Pre-agreement costs in excess of the amount set forth in paragraph (c) of this section must be approved, in writing, by the HUD Field Office before the costs are incurred.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.212 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.213
HOME Funds and Public Housing.
(a)
General rule.
HOME funds may not be used for public housing units. HOME-assisted housing units may not receive Operating Fund or Capital Fund assistance under section 9 of the 1937 Act during the HOME period of affordability.
(b)
Exception.
HOME funds may be used for the development of public housing units, if the units are developed under section 24 of the 1937 Act (HOPE VI) and no Capital Fund assistance under section 9(d) of the Act is used for the development of the unit. Units developed with both HOME and HOPE VI may receive operating assistance under section 9 of the 1937 Act. Units developed with HOME and HOPE VI funds under this paragraph may subsequently receive Capital Funds for rehabilitation or modernization.
(c)
Using HOME funds in public housing projects.
Consistent with § 92.205(d), HOME funds may be used for affordable housing units in a project that also contains public housing units, provided that the HOME funds are not used for the public housing units (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) and HOME funds are used only for eligible costs in accordance with this part.
(d) The HOME funds must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part and the project must meet the requirements of this part, including rent requirements in § 92.252.
[78 FR 44669, July 24, 2013]
§ 92.214
Prohibited activities and fees.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) HOME funds may not be used to:
(1) Provide project reserve accounts, except as provided in § 92.206(d)(5), or operating subsidies;
(2) Provide tenant-based rental assistance for the special purposes of the existing section 8 program, in accordance with section 212(d) of the Act;
(3) Provide non-federal matching contributions required under any other Federal program;
(4) Provide assistance for uses authorized under section 9 of the 1937 Act (Public Housing Capital and Operating Funds);
(5) Provide assistance to eligible low-income housing under 24 CFR part 248 (Prepayment of Low Income Housing Mortgages), except that assistance may be provided to priority purchasers as defined in 24 CFR 248.101;
(6) Provide assistance (other than tenant-based rental assistance, assistance to a homebuyer to acquire housing previously assisted with HOME funds, or assistance to preserve affordability of homeownership housing in accordance with § 92.254(a)(9)) to a project previously assisted with HOME funds during the period of affordability established by the particular jurisdiction in the written agreement under § 92.504. However, additional HOME funds may be committed to a project for up to one year after project completion (see § 92.502), but the amount of HOME funds in the project may not exceed the maximum per-unit subsidy amount established under § 92.250.
(7) Pay for the acquisition of property owned by the participating jurisdiction, except for property acquired by the participating jurisdiction with HOME funds, or property acquired in anticipation of carrying out a HOME project; or
(8) Pay delinquent taxes, fees or charges on properties to be assisted with HOME funds.
(9) Pay for any cost that is not eligible under §§ 92.206 through 92.209.
(b)(1) Participating jurisdictions may not charge (and must prohibit State recipients, subrecipients, and community
housing development organizations from charging) servicing, origination, or other fees for the purpose of covering costs of administering the HOME program (e.g., fees on low-income families for construction management or for inspections for compliance with property standards) (see § 92.206(d)(6) and § 92.207), except that:
(i) Participating jurisdictions and State recipients may charge owners of rental projects reasonable annual fees for compliance monitoring during the period of affordability. The fees must be based upon the average actual cost of performing the monitoring of HOME-assisted rental projects. The basis for determining the amount of for the fee amount must be documented and the fee must be included in the costs of the project as part of the project underwriting;
(ii) Participating jurisdictions, subrecipients and State recipients may charge nominal application fees (although these fees are not an eligible HOME cost) to project owners to discourage frivolous applications. The amount of application fees must be appropriate to the type of application and may not create an undue impediment to a low-income family's, subrecipient's, State recipient's, or other entity's participation in the participating jurisdiction's program; and
(iii) Participating jurisdictions, subrecipients and State recipients may charge homebuyers a fee for housing counseling.
(2) All fees charged under paragraph (b)(1) of this section are applicable credits under 2 CFR 200.406.
(3) The participating jurisdiction must prohibit project owners from charging fees that are not customarily charged in rental housing (e.g., laundry room access fees), except that rental project owners may charge:
(i) Reasonable application fees to prospective tenants;
(ii) Parking fees to tenants only if such fees are customary for rental housing projects in the neighborhood; and
(iii) Fees for services such as bus transportation or meals, as long as the services are voluntary and fees are charged for services provided.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28929, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44669, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 869, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.214 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.215
Limitation on jurisdictions under court order.
Limitations on the use of HOME funds in connection with litigation involving discrimination or fair housing are set forth in section 224 of the Act.

# Income Targeting
§ 92.216
Income targeting: Tenant-based rental assistance and rental units.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
Each participating jurisdiction must invest HOME funds made available during a fiscal year so that, with respect to tenant-based rental assistance and rental units:
(a) Not less than 90 percent of:
(1) The families receiving such rental assistance are families whose annual incomes do not exceed 60 percent of the median family income for the area, as determined and made available by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families (except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 60 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction cost or fair market rent, or unusually high or low family income) at the time of occupancy or at the time funds are invested, whichever is later; or
(2) The dwelling units assisted with such funds are occupied by families having such incomes; and
(b) The remainder of:
(1) The families receiving such rental assistance are households that qualify as low-income families (other than families described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) at the time of occupancy or at the time funds are invested, whichever is later; or
(2) The dwelling units assisted with such funds are occupied by such households.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.216 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.217
Income targeting: Homeownership.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
Each participating jurisdiction must invest HOME funds made available during a fiscal year so that with respect to homeownership assistance, 100 percent of these funds are invested in dwelling units that are occupied by households that qualify as low-income families.
[67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.217 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Matching Contribution Requirement
§ 92.218
Amount of matching contribution.
(a)
General.
Each participating jurisdiction must make contributions to housing that qualifies as affordable housing under the HOME program, throughout a fiscal year. The contributions must total not less than 25 percent of the funds drawn from the jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund Treasury account in that fiscal year, excluding funds drawn for purposes identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Shortfall amount from State or local resources.
Amounts made available under § 92.102(b)(2) from the resources of a State (other than a transfer of the State's formula allocation), the local participating jurisdiction, or both, to enable the local participating jurisdiction to meet the participation threshold amount are not required to be matched and do not constitute matching contributions.
(c)
HOME funds not required to be matched.
HOME funds used for administrative and planning costs (pursuant to § 92.207); community housing development organization operating expenses (pursuant to § 92.208); capacity building (pursuant to § 92.300(b)) of community housing development organizations; and project specific assistance to community housing development organizations (pursuant to § 92.301) when the participating jurisdiction waives repayment under the provisions of § 92.301(a)(3) or § 92.301(b)(3) are not required to be matched.
(d)
Match contribution for other programs.
Contributions that have been or will be counted as satisfying a matching requirement of another Federal grant or award may not count as satisfying the matching contribution requirement for the HOME program.
§ 92.219
Recognition of matching contribution.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Match contribution to HOME-assisted housing.
A contribution is recognized as a matching contribution if it is made with respect to:
(1) A tenant who is assisted with HOME funds;
(2) A HOME-assisted unit;
(3) The portion of a project that is not HOME-assisted provided that at least 50 percent of the housing units in the project are HOME-assisted. If the match contribution to the portion of the project that is not HOME-assisted meets the affordable housing requirements of § 92.219(b)(2), the percentage requirement for HOME-assisted units does not apply; or
(4) The commercial space in a mixed-use project in which at least 51 percent of the floor space is residential provided that at least 50 percent of the dwelling units are HOME-assisted.
(b)
Match contribution to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted.
The following requirements apply for recognition of matching contributions made to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted:
(1) For tenant-based rental assistance that is not HOME-assisted:
(i) The contribution must be made with respect to a tenant who is assisted with tenant-based rental assistance that meets the requirements of § 92.203 (Income determinations) and paragraphs (a), (c), (f), and (i) of § 92.209 (Tenant-based rental assistance); and
(ii) The participating jurisdiction must demonstrate in writing that such assistance meets the provisions of §§ 92.203 and 92.209 (except § 92.209(e)).
(2) For affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted:
(i) The contribution must be made with respect to housing that qualifies
as affordable housing under § 92.252 or § 92.254.
(ii) The participating jurisdiction or its instrumentality must execute, with the owner of the housing (or, if the participating jurisdiction is the owner, with the manager or developer), a written agreement that imposes and enumerates all of the affordability requirements from § 92.252 and § 92.253(a) and (b) (Tenant protections), or § 92.254, whichever are applicable; the property standards requirements of § 92.251; and income determinations made in accordance with § 92.203. This written agreement must be executed before any match contributions may be made.
(iii) A participating jurisdiction must establish a procedure to monitor HOME match-eligible housing to ensure continued compliance with the requirements of §§ 92.203 (Income determinations), 92.252 (Qualification as affordable housing: Rental housing), 92.253(a) and (b) (Tenant protections) and 92.254 (Qualification as affordable housing: Homeownership). No other HOME requirements apply.
(iv) The match may be in any eligible form of match except those in § 92.220(a)(2) (forbearance of fees), (a)(4) (on-site and off-site infrastructure), (a)(10) (direct cost of supportive services) and (a)(11) (direct costs of homebuyer counseling services).
(v) Match contributions to mixed-use or mixed-income projects that contain affordable housing units will be recognized only if the contribution is made to the project's affordable housing units.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28929, May 28, 1997]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.219 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.220
Form of matching contribution.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Eligible forms.
Matching contributions must be made from nonfederal resources and may be in the form of one or more of the following:
(1)
Cash contributions from nonfederal sources.
To be recognized as a cash contribution, funds must be contributed permanently to the HOME program (or to affordable housing not assisted with HOME funds), regardless of the form of investment provided to the project. Therefore, to receive match credit for the full amount of a loan to a HOME project, all repayment, interest, or other return on investment of the contribution must be deposited in the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to be used for eligible HOME activities in accordance with the requirements of this part. A cash contribution to affordable housing that is not assisted with HOME funds must be contributed permanently to the project. Repayments of matching contributions in affordable housing projects, as defined in § 92.219(b), that are not HOME-assisted, must be made to the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to get match credit for the full loan amount.
(i) A cash contribution may be made by the participating jurisdiction, non-Federal public entities, private entities, or individuals, except as prohibited under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. A cash contribution made to a nonprofit organization for use in a HOME project may be counted as a matching contribution.
(ii) A cash contribution may be made from program income (as defined by 2 CFR 200.80) from a Federal grant earned after the end of the award period if no Federal requirements govern the disposition of the program income. Included in this category are repayments from closed out grants under the Urban Development Action Grant Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart G) and the Housing Development Grant Program (24 CFR part 850), and from the Rental Rehabilitation Grant Program (24 CFR part 511) after all fiscal year Rental Rehabilitation grants have been closed out.
(iii) The grant equivalent of a below-market interest rate loan to the project that is not repayable to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund may be counted as a cash contribution, as follows:
(A) If the loan is made from funds borrowed by a jurisdiction or public agency or corporation the contribution is the present discounted cash value of the difference between the payments to
be made on the borrowed funds and payments to be received from the loan to the project based on a discount rate equal to the interest rate on the borrowed funds.
(B) If the loan is made from funds other than funds borrowed by a jurisdiction or public agency or corporation, the contribution is the present discounted cash value of the yield foregone. In determining the yield foregone, the participating jurisdiction must use as a measure of a market rate yield one of the following, as appropriate:
(
1
) With respect to one- to four-unit housing financed with a fixed interest rate mortgage, a rate equal to the 10-year Treasury note rate plus 200 basis points;
(
2
) With respect to one- to four-unit housing financed with an adjustable interest rate mortgage, a rate equal to the one-year Treasury bill rate plus 250 basis points;
(
3
) With respect to a multifamily project, a rate equal to the 10-year Treasury note rate plus 300 basis points; or
(
4
) With respect to housing receiving financing for rehabilitation, a rate equal to the 10-year Treasury note rate plus 400 basis points.
(iv) Proceeds of bonds that are not repaid with revenue from an affordable housing project (e.g., general obligation bonds) and that are loaned to a HOME-assisted or other qualified affordable housing project constitute a cash contribution under this paragraph.
(v) A cash contribution may be counted as a matching contribution only if it is used for costs eligible under §§ 92.206 or 92.209, or for the following (which are not HOME eligible costs): the cost of removing and relocating an ECHO housing unit during the period of affordability in accordance with § 92.258(d)(3)(ii), payments to a project reserve account beyond payments permitted by § 92.206(d)(5), operating subsidies, or costs relating to the portion of a mixed-income or mixed-use HOME-assisted project not related to the affordable housing units.
(2)
Forbearance of fees
—(i)
State and local taxes, charges or fees.
The value (based on customary and reasonable means for establishing value) of State or local taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally and customarily imposed or charged by a State or local government on all transactions or projects in the conduct of its operations, which are waived, foregone, or deferred (including State low-income housing tax credits) in a manner that achieves affordability of HOME-assisted projects, may be counted as match. The amount of any real estate taxes may be based on post-improvement property value. For taxes, fees, or charges that are forgiven for future years, the value is the present discounted cash value, based on a rate equal to the rate for the Treasury security with a maturity closest to the number of years for which the taxes, fees, or charges are waived, foregone, or deferred.
(ii)
Other charges or fees.
The value of fees or charges associated with the transfer or development of real estate that are normally and customarily imposed or charged by public or private entities, which are waived or foregone, in whole or in part, in a manner that achieves affordability of HOME-assisted projects, may be counted as match. Fees and charges under this paragraph do not include fees or charges for legal or other professional services; professional services which are donated, in whole or in part, are an eligible matching contribution in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
(iii) Fees or charges that are associated with the HOME Program only (rather than normally and customarily imposed or charged on all transactions or projects) are not eligible forms of matching contributions.
(3)
Donated Real Property.
The value, before the HOME assistance is provided and minus any debt burden, lien, or other encumbrance, of donated land or other real property may be counted as match. The donation may be made by the participating jurisdiction, non-Federal public entities, private entities, or individuals, except as prohibited under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(i) Donated property not acquired with Federal resources is a contribution in the amount of 100% of the value.
(ii) Donated property acquired with Federal assistance may provide a partial contribution as follows. The property must be acquired with Federal assistance specifically for a HOME project (or for affordable housing that will be counted as match pursuant to § 92.219(b)(2)). The property must be acquired with the Federal assistance at demonstrably below the appraised value and must be acknowledged by the seller as a donation to affordable housing at the time of the acquisition with the Federal assistance. The amount of the contribution is the difference between the acquisition price and the appraised value at the time of acquisition with the Federal assistance. If the property is acquired with the Federal assistance by someone other than the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner, to continue to qualify as a contribution, the property must be given to the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner at a price that does not exceed the amount of the Federal assistance used to acquire the property.
(iii) Property must be appraised in conformance with established and generally recognized appraisal practice and procedures in common use by professional appraisers. Opinions of value must be based on the best available data properly analyzed and interpreted. The appraisal of land and structures must be performed by an independent, certified appraiser.
(4) The cost, not paid with Federal resources, of on-site and off-site infrastructure that the participating jurisdiction documents are directly required for HOME-assisted projects. The infrastructure must have been completed no earlier than 12 months before HOME funds are committed to the project.
(5) Proceeds from multifamily and single family affordable housing project bond financing validly issued by a State or local government, or an agency or instrumentality of a State or local government or a political subdivision of a State and repayable with revenues from the affordable housing project financed as follows:
(i) Fifty percent of the loan amount made from bond proceeds to a multifamily affordable housing project owner may qualify as match.
(ii) Twenty-five percent of the loan amount from bond proceeds made to a single-family affordable housing project owner may qualify as match.
(iii) Loans made from bond proceeds may not constitute more than 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution.
(6) The reasonable value of donated site-preparation and construction materials, not acquired with Federal resources. The value of site-preparation and construction materials is to be determined in accordance with the participating jurisdiction's cost estimate procedures.
(7) The reasonable rental value of the donated use of site preparation or construction equipment.
(8) The value of donated or voluntary labor or professional services (see § 92.354(b)) in connection with the provision of affordable housing. A single rate established by HUD shall be applicable for determining the value of unskilled labor. The value of skilled labor or professional services shall be determined by the rate that the individual or entity performing the labor or service normally charges.
(9) The value of sweat equity (see § 92.354(c)) provided to a homeownership project, under an established component of a participating jurisdiction's program, up until the time of project completion (i.e., submission of a project completion form). Such labor shall be valued at the rate established for unskilled labor at paragraph (a)(8) of this section.
(10) The direct cost of supportive services provided to families residing in HOME-assisted units during the period of affordability or receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance during the term of the tenant-based rental assistance contract. The supportive services must be necessary to facilitate independent living or be required as part of a self-sufficiency program. Examples of supportive services include: case management, mental health services, assistance with the tasks of daily living, substance abuse treatment and counseling, day care, and job training and counseling.
(11) The direct cost of homebuyer counseling services provided to families that acquire properties with HOME
funds under the provisions of § 92.254(a), including ongoing counseling services provided during the period of affordability. These services may be provided as part of a homebuyer counseling program that is not specific to the HOME Program, but only the cost of services to families that complete purchases with HOME assistance may be counted as match.
(b)
Ineligible forms.
The following are examples that do not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and do not count toward meeting a participating jurisdiction's matching contribution requirement:
(1) Contributions made with or derived from Federal resources or funds, regardless of when the Federal resources or funds were received or expended. CDBG funds (defined in 24 CFR 570.3) are Federal funds for this purpose;
(2) The interest rate subsidy attributable to the Federal tax-exemption on financing or the value attributable to Federal tax credits;
(3) Owner equity or investment in a project; and
(4) Cash or other forms of contributions from applicants for or recipients of HOME assistance or contracts, or investors who own, are working on, or are proposing to apply for assistance for a HOME-assisted project. The prohibition in this paragraph (b)(4) does not apply to contractors (who do not own any HOME project) contributing professional services in accordance with paragraph (a)(8) of this section or to persons contributing sweat equity in accordance with paragraph (a)(9) of this section.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28929, May 28, 1997; 62 FR 44840, Aug. 22, 1997; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.220 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.221
Match credit.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
When credit is given.
Contributions are credited on a fiscal year basis at the time the contribution is made, as follows:
(1) A cash contribution is credited when the funds are expended.
(2) The grant equivalent of a below-market interest rate loan is credited at the time of the loan closing.
(3) The value of state or local taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally and customarily imposed but are waived, foregone, or deferred is credited at the time the state or local government or other public or private entity officially waives, forgoes, or defers the taxes, fees, or other charges and notifies the project owner.
(4) The value of donated land or other real property is credited at the time ownership of the property is transferred to the HOME project (or affordable housing) owner.
(5) The cost of investment in infrastructure directly required for HOME-assisted projects is credited at the time funds are expended for the infrastructure or at the time the HOME funds are committed to the project if the infrastructure was completed before the commitment of HOME funds.
(6) The value of donated material is credited as match at the time it is used for affordable housing.
(7) The value of the donate use of site preparation or construction equipment is credited as match at the time the equipment is used for affordable housing.
(8) The value of donated or voluntary labor or professional services is credited at the time the work is performed.
(9) A loan made from bond proceeds under § 92.220(a)(5) is credited at the time of the loan closing.
(10) The direct cost of social services provided to residents of HOME-assisted units is credited at the time that the social services are provided during the period of affordability.
(11) The direct cost of homebuyer counseling services provided to families that purchase HOME-assisted units is credited at the time that the homebuyer purchases the unit or for post-purchase counseling services, at the time the counseling services are provided.
(b)
Excess match.
Contributions made in a fiscal year that exceed the participating jurisdiction's match liability for the fiscal year in which they were made may be carried over and applied to future fiscal years' match liability.
Loans made from bond proceeds in excess of 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution may be carried over to subsequent fiscal years as excess match, subject to the annual 25 percent limitation.
(c) Credit for match contributions shall be assigned as follows:
(1) For HOME-assisted projects involving more than one participating jurisdiction, the participating jurisdiction that makes the match contribution may decide to retain the match credit or permit the other participating jurisdiction to claim the credit.
(2) For HOME match contributions to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted (match pursuant to § 92.219(b)) involving more than one participating jurisdiction, the participating jurisdiction that makes the match contribution receives the match credit.
(3) A State that provides non-Federal funds to a local participating jurisdiction to be used for a contribution to affordable housing, whether or not HOME-assisted, may take the match credit for itself or may permit the local participating jurisdiction to receive the match credit.
(d) Match credit for the development of affordable homeownership housing for sale to homebuyers. Contributions to the development of homeownership housing may be credited as a match only to the extent that the sales price of the housing is reduced by the amount of the contribution or, if the development costs exceed the fair market value of the housing, the contribution may be credited to the extent that the contributions enable the housing to be sold for less than the cost of development.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.221 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.222
Reduction of matching contribution requirement.
(a)
Reduction for fiscal distress.
HUD will determine match reductions annually.
(1)
Distress criteria for local government participating jurisdictions.
If a local government participating jurisdiction satisfies both of the distress factors in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, it is in severe fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 100% for the period specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If a local government participating jurisdiction satisfies either distress factor in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, it is in fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 50 percent, for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(i)
Poverty rate.
The average poverty rate in the participating jurisdiction was equal to or greater than 125 percent of the average national poverty rate during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information of the Bureau of the Census.
(ii)
Per capita income.
The average per capita income in the participating jurisdiction was less than 75 percent of the average national per capita income, during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information from the Bureau of the Census.
(2)
Distress criteria for participating jurisdictions that are States.
If a State satisfies at least 2 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in severe fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 100% for the period specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If a State satisfies any 1 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 50 percent, for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(i)
Poverty rate.
The average poverty rate in the State was equal to or greater than 125 percent of the average national poverty rate during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information from the Bureau of the Census.
(ii)
Per capita income.
The average per capita income in the State was less than 75 percent of the average national per capita income, during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according
to information from the Bureau of the Census.
(iii)
Personal income growth.
The average personal income growth rate in the State over the most recent four quarters for which the data are available was less than 75 percent of the average national personal income growth rate during that period, as determined according to information from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
(3)
Period of match reduction for severe fiscal distress.
A 100% match reduction is effective for the fiscal year in which the severe fiscal distress determination is made and for the following fiscal year.
(4)
Period of match reduction for fiscal distress.
A 50% match reduction is effective for the fiscal year in which the fiscal distress determination is made and for the following fiscal year, except that if a severe fiscal distress determination is published in that following fiscal year, the participating jurisdiction starts a new two-year match reduction period in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(b) Reduction of match for participating jurisdictions in disaster areas. If a participating jurisdiction is located in an area in which a declaration of major disaster is made pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121-5206), the participating jurisdiction may request a reduction of its matching requirement.
(1) In determining whether to grant the request and the amount and duration of the reduction, if any, HUD must consider the fiscal impact of the disaster on the participating jurisdiction.
(i) For a local participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in § 92.218 by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year.
(ii) For a State participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field office may reduce the matching requirement specified in § 92.218, by up to 100 percent for the fiscal year in which the declaration of major disaster is made and the following fiscal year with respect to any HOME funds expended in an area to which the declaration of a major disaster applies.
(2) At its discretion and upon request of the participating jurisdiction, the HUD Field Office may extend the reduction for an additional year.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013]

# Subpart F—Project Requirements
§ 92.250
Maximum per-unit subsidy amount, underwriting, and subsidy layering.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Maximum per-unit subsidy amount.
The total amount of HOME funds and ADDI funds that a participating jurisdiction may invest on a per-unit basis in affordable housing may not exceed the per-unit dollar limitations established under section 221(d)(3)(ii) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.17151(d)(3)(ii)) for elevator- type projects that apply to the area in which the housing is located. HUD will allow the per-unit subsidy amount to be increased on a program-wide basis to an amount, up to 240 percent of the original per unit limits, to the extent that the costs of multifamily housing construction exceed the section 221(d)(3)(ii) limit.
(b)
Underwriting and subsidy layering.
Before committing funds to a project, the participating jurisdiction must evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it has adopted for determining a reasonable level of profit or return on owner's or developer's investment in a project and must not invest any more HOME funds, alone or in combination with other governmental assistance, than is necessary to provide quality affordable housing that is financially viable for a reasonable period (at minimum, the period of affordability in § 92.252 or § 92.254) and that will not provide a profit or return on the owner's or developer's investment that exceeds the participating jurisdiction's established standards for the size, type, and complexity of the project. The participating jurisdiction's guidelines must require the participating jurisdiction to undertake:
(1) An examination of the sources and uses of funds for the project and a determination that the costs are reasonable; and
(2) An assessment, at minimum, of the current market demand in the neighborhood in which the project will be located, the experience of the developer, the financial capacity of the developer, and firm written financial commitments for the project.
(3) For projects involving rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing pursuant to § 92.254(b):
(i) An underwriting analysis is required only if the HOME-funded rehabilitation loan is an amortizing loan; and
(ii) A market analysis or evaluation of developer capacity is not required.
(4) For projects involving HOME-funded downpayment assistance pursuant to § 92.254(a) and which do not include HOME-funded development activity, a market analysis or evaluation of developer capacity is not required.
[78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.250 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.251
Property standards.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
New construction projects
—(1)
State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements.
Housing that is newly constructed with HOME funds must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements. HOME-assisted new construction projects must meet State or local residential and building codes, as applicable or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable to the type of housing) of the International Code Council. The housing must meet the applicable requirements upon project completion.
(2)
HUD requirements.
All new construction projects must also meet the requirements described in this paragraph:
(i)
Accessibility.
The housing must meet the accessibility requirements of 24 CFR part 8, which implements Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. Covered multifamily dwellings, as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619).
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii)
Disaster mitigation.
Where relevant, the housing must be constructed to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (e.g., earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires), in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, or other State and local requirements, or such other requirements as HUD may establish.
(iv)
Written cost estimates, construction contracts and construction documents.
The participating jurisdiction must ensure the construction contract(s) and construction documents describe the work to be undertaken in adequate detail so that inspections can be conducted. The participating jurisdiction must review and approve written cost estimates for construction and determining that costs are reasonable.
(v)
Construction progress inspections.
The participating jurisdiction must conduct progress and final inspections of construction to ensure that work is done in accordance with the applicable codes, the construction contract, and construction documents.
(vi)
Broadband infrastructure.
For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a new construction housing project of a building with more than 4 rental units, the construction must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the participating jurisdiction determines and, in accordance with § 92.508(a)(3)(iv), documents the determination that:
(A) The location of the new construction makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible; or
(B) The cost of installing the infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden.
(b)
Rehabilitation projects.
All rehabilitation that is performed using HOME funds must meet the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(1)
Rehabilitation standards.
The participating jurisdiction must establish rehabilitation standards for all HOME-
assisted housing rehabilitation activities that set forth the requirements that the housing must meet upon project completion. The participating jurisdiction's description of its standards must be in sufficient detail to determine the required rehabilitation work including methods and materials. The standards may refer to applicable codes or they may establish requirements that exceed the minimum requirements of the codes. The rehabilitation standards must address each of the following:
(i)
Health and safety.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that must be addressed immediately if the housing is occupied.
(ii)
Major systems.
Major systems are: structural support; roofing; cladding and weatherproofing (e.g., windows, doors, siding, gutters); plumbing; electrical; and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning. For rental housing, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to estimate (based on age and condition) the remaining useful life of these systems, upon project completion of each major systems. For multifamily housing projects of 26 units or more, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to determine the useful life of major systems through a capital needs assessment of the project. For rental housing, if the remaining useful life of one or more major system is less than the applicable period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the participating jurisdiction to ensure that a replacement reserve is established and monthly payments are made to the reserve that are adequate to repair or replace the systems as needed. For homeownership housing, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require, upon project completion, each of the major systems to have a remaining useful life for a minimum of 5 years or for such longer period specified by the participating jurisdiction, or the major systems must be rehabilitated or replaced as part of the rehabilitation work.
(iii)
Lead-based paint.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-based paint requirements at 24 CFR part 35.
(iv)
Accessibility.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the accessibility requirements in 24 CFR part 8, which implements Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. Covered multifamily dwellings, as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619). Rehabilitation may include improvements that are not required by regulation or statute that permit use by a person with disabilities.
(v) [Reserved]
(vi)
Disaster mitigation.
Where relevant, the participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to be improved to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (e.g., earthquake, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires) in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements.
(vii)
State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Existing Building Code of the International Code Council.
(viii)
HUD housing standards.
The standards of the participating jurisdiction must be such that, upon completion, the HOME-assisted project and units will be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. This means that the HOME-assisted project and units will meet the standards in 24 CFR 5.703, except that the carbon monoxide detection requirements at 24 CFR 5.703(b)(2) and (d)(6) shall not apply. For all HOME-assisted projects and units, the requirements at 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply. At minimum, the participating jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards must require correction of the specific deficiencies published in the
Federal Register
for HOME-assisted projects and units. For SRO
housing, 24 CFR 5.703(d) shall only apply to the extent that the SRO unit contains the room or facility referenced in 24 CFR 5.703(d).
(ix)
Capital Needs Assessments.
For multifamily rental housing projects of 26 or more total units, the participating jurisdiction must determine all work that will be performed in the rehabilitation of the housing and the long-term physical needs of the project through a capital needs assessment of the project.
(x)
Broadband infrastructure.
For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a substantial rehabilitation project of a building with more than 4 rental units, any substantial rehabilitation, as defined in 24 CFR 5.100, must provide for installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the participating jurisdiction determines and, in accordance with § 92.508(a)(3)(iv), documents the determination that:
(A) The location of the substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;
(B) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or
(C) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.
(2)
Construction documents and cost estimates.
The participating jurisdiction must ensure that the work to be undertaken will meet the participating jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards. The construction documents (i.e., written scope of work to be performed) must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of the housing to determine compliance with the participating jurisdiction's standards. The participating jurisdiction must review and approve a written cost estimate for rehabilitation after determining that costs are reasonable.
(3)
Frequency of inspections.
The participating jurisdiction must conduct an initial property inspection to identify the deficiencies that must be addressed. The participating jurisdiction must conduct progress and final inspections to determine that work was done in accordance with work write-ups.
(c)
Acquisition of standard housing.
(1) Existing housing that is acquired with HOME assistance for rental housing, and that was newly constructed or rehabilitated less than 12 months before the date of commitment of HOME funds, must meet the property standards of paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, of this section for new construction and rehabilitation projects. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance based upon a review of approved building plans and Certificates of Occupancy, and an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance.
(2) All other existing housing that is acquired with HOME assistance for rental housing must meet the rehabilitation property standards requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance. If the property does not meet these standards, HOME funds cannot be used to acquire the property unless it is rehabilitated to meet the standards of paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Existing housing that is acquired for homeownership (e.g., downpayment assistance) must be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The participating jurisdiction must establish standards to determine that the housing is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. At minimum, the standards must provide that the housing meets all applicable State and local housing quality standards and code requirements and the housing does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the
Federal Register
for HOME assisted projects and units. The participating jurisdiction must inspect the housing and document this compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 days before the commitment of HOME assistance. If the housing does not meet these
standards, the housing must be rehabilitated to meet the standards of this paragraph (c)(3) or it cannot be acquired with HOME funds.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Manufactured housing.
Construction of all manufactured housing including manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must meet the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards codified at 24 CFR part 3280. These standards preempt State and local codes which are not identical to the federal standards for the new construction of manufactured housing. Participating jurisdictions providing HOME funds to assist manufactured housing units must comply with applicable State and local laws or codes. In the absence of such laws or codes, the installation must comply with the manufacturer's written instructions for installation of manufactured housing units. All new manufactured housing and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must be on a permanent foundation that meets the requirements for foundation systems as set forth in 24 CFR 203.43f(c)(i). All new manufactured housing and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing unit owner or land for which the manufactured housing owner has a lease for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability. In HOME-funded rehabilitation of existing manufactured housing the foundation and anchoring must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or in the absence of local or state codes, the Model Manufactured Home Installation Standards at 24 CFR part 3285. Manufactured housing that is rehabilitated using HOME funds must meet the property standards requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable. The participating jurisdiction must document this compliance in accordance with inspection procedures that the participating jurisdiction has established pursuant to § 92.251, as applicable.
(f)
Ongoing property condition standards: Rental housing and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance
—(1)
Ongoing property standards.
The participating jurisdiction must establish property standards for rental housing (including manufactured housing) that apply throughout the affordability period and for housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The standards must require that owners maintain the housing as decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The participating jurisdiction's description of its property standards must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of HOME rental projects and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards must address each of the following:
(i)
Compliance with State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet all applicable State and local code requirements and ordinances. In the absence of existing applicable State or local code requirements and ordinances, at a minimum, the participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards must provide that the property does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the
Federal Register
for rental housing (including manufactured housing) and housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The requirements in 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply to the participating jurisdiction's ongoing property standards.
(ii)
Health and safety.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to be free of all health and safety defects. The standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that the owner must immediately correct and the time frames for addressing these deficiencies.
(iii)
Lead-based paint.
The participating jurisdiction's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-
based paint requirements in 24 CFR part 35.
(2) Projects to which HOME funds were committed before January 24, 2015 must meet all applicable State or local housing quality standards or code requirements, and if there are no such standard or code requirements, the housing must meet the housing quality standards in 24 CFR 982.401.
(3)
Inspections.
The participating jurisdiction must undertake ongoing property inspections, in accordance with § 92.504(d).
(4)
Corrective and remedial actions.
The participating jurisdiction must have procedures for ensuring that timely corrective and remedial actions are taken by the project owner to address identified deficiencies.
(5)
Inspection procedures.
The participating jurisdiction must establish written inspection procedures inspections. The procedures must include detailed inspection checklists, description of how and by whom inspections will be carried out, and procedures for training and certifying qualified inspectors. The procedures must also describe how frequently the property will be inspected, consistent with this section, § 92.209, and § 92.504(d).
[78 FR 44670, July 24, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 92635, Dec. 20, 2016; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 870, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.251 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.252
Qualification as affordable housing: Rental housing.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 873, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The HOME-assisted units in a rental housing project must be occupied by households that are eligible as low- income families and must meet the requirements of this section to qualify as affordable housing. If the housing is not occupied by eligible tenants within six months following the date of project completion, HUD will require the participating jurisdiction to submit marketing information and, if appropriate, submit a marketing plan. HUD will require the participating jurisdiction to repay HOME funds invested in any housing unit that has not been rented to eligible tenants 18 months after the date of project completion. The affordability requirements also apply to the HOME- assisted non-owner-occupied units in single-family housing purchased with HOME funds in accordance with § 92.254. The tenant must have a written lease that complies with § 92.253.
(a)
Rent limitation.
HUD provides the following maximum HOME rent limits. The rent limits apply to the rent plus the utilities or the utility allowance. The maximum HOME rents (High HOME Rents) are the lesser of:
(1) The fair market rent for existing housing for comparable units in the area as established by HUD under 24 CFR 888.111; or
(2) A rent that does not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family whose annual income equals 65 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for number of bedrooms in the unit. The HOME rent limits provided by HUD will include average occupancy per unit and adjusted income assumptions.
(b)
Additional rent limitations (Low HOME Rents).
The participating jurisdiction may designate (in its written agreement with the project owner) more than the minimum HOME units in a rental housing project, regardless of project size, to have Low HOME Rents that meet the requirements of this paragraph (b). In rental projects with five or more HOME-assisted rental units, at least 20 percent of the HOME-assisted units must be occupied by very low-income families and meet one of the following rent requirements:
(1) The rent does not exceed 30 percent of the annual income of a family whose income equals 50 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger families. HUD provides the HOME rent limits which include average occupancy per unit and adjusted income assumptions. However, if the rent determined under this paragraph is higher than the applicable rent under paragraph (a) of this section, then the maximum rent for units under this paragraph is that calculated under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)(i) The rent does not exceed 30 percent of the family's adjusted income.
(ii) If the unit receives Federal or State project-based rental subsidy and the very low-income family pays as a contribution toward rent not more than 30 percent of the family's adjusted income, then the maximum rent (
i.e.,
tenant contribution plus project-based rental subsidy) is the rent allowable under the Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program.
(c)
Additional rent limitations for SRO projects.
(1) For SRO units that have both sanitary and food preparation facilities, the maximum HOME rent is based on the zero-bedroom fair market rent. The project must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(2) For SRO units that have no sanitary or food preparation facilities or only one of the two, the maximum HOME rent is based on 75 percent of the zero-bedroom fair market rent. The project is not required to have low HOME rents in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, but must meet the occupancy requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Initial rent schedule and utility allowances.
(1) The participating jurisdiction must establish maximum monthly allowances for utilities and services (excluding telephone) and update the allowances annually. The participating jurisdiction must use the HUD Utility Schedule Model or otherwise determine the utility allowance for the project based on the type of utilities used at the project.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must review and approve rents proposed by the owner for units, subject to the maximum rent limitations in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. For all units subject to the maximum rent limitations in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section for which the tenant is paying utilities and services, the participating jurisdiction must ensure that the rents do not exceed the maximum rent minus the monthly allowances for utilities and services.
(e)
Periods of affordability.
The HOME-assisted units must meet the affordability requirements for not less than the applicable period specified in the following table, beginning after project completion.
(1) The affordability requirements:
(i) Apply without regard to the term of any loan or mortgage, repayment of the HOME investment, or the transfer of ownership;
(ii) Must be imposed by a deed restriction, a covenant running with the land, an agreement restricting the use of the property, or other mechanisms approved by HUD and must give the participating jurisdiction the right to require specific performance (except that the participating jurisdiction may provide that the affordability restrictions may terminate upon foreclosure or transfer in lieu of foreclosure); and
(iii) Must be recorded in accordance with State recordation laws.
(2) The participating jurisdiction may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure in order to preserve affordability.
(3) The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in the project or property.
(4) The termination of the restrictions on the project does not terminate the participating jurisdiction's repayment obligation under § 92.503(b).
Rental housing activity
Minimum period of affordability in years
Rehabilitation or acquisition of existing housing per unit amount of HOME funds: Under $15,000
5
$15,000 to $40,000
10
Over $40,000 or rehabilitation involving refinancing
15
New construction or acquisition of newly constructed housing
20
(f)
Subsequent rents during the affordability period.
(1) The maximum HOME rent limits are recalculated on a periodic basis after HUD determines fair market rents and median incomes. HUD then provides the new maximum HOME rent limits to participating jurisdictions. Regardless of changes in fair market rents and in median income over time, the HOME rents for a project are not required to be lower than the HOME rent limits for the project in effect at the time of project commitment.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must provide project owners with information on updated HOME rent limits so that rents may be adjusted (not to exceed the maximum HOME rent limits in paragraph (f)(1) of this section) in accordance with the written agreement between the participating jurisdiction and the owner. Owners must annually provide the participating jurisdiction with information on rents and occupancy of HOME-assisted units to demonstrate compliance with this section. The participating jurisdiction must review rents for compliance and approve or disapprove them every year.
(3) Any increase in rents for HOME-assisted units is subject to the provisions of outstanding leases, and in any event, the owner must provide tenants of those units not less than 30 days prior written notice before implementing any increase in rents.
(g)
Adjustment of HOME rent limits for an existing project.
(1) Changes in fair market rents and in median income over time should be sufficient to maintain the financial viability of a project within the HOME rent limits in this section.
(2) HUD may adjust the HOME rent limits for a project, only if HUD finds that an adjustment is necessary to support the continued financial viability of the project and only by an amount that HUD determines is necessary to maintain continued financial viability of the project. HUD expects that this authority will be used sparingly.
(h)
Tenant income.
The income of each tenant must be determined initially in accordance with § 92.203(b)(1)(i). In addition, each year during the period of affordability the project owner must re-examine each tenant's annual income in accordance with one of the options in § 92.203(b)(1) selected by the participating jurisdiction. An owner of a multifamily project with an affordability period of ten years or more who re-examines tenant's annual income through a statement and certification in accordance with § 92.203(b)(1)(ii), must examine the income of each tenant, in accordance with § 92.203(b)(1)(i), every sixth year of the affordability period, except that, for units that receive Federal or State project-based rental subsidy, the owner must accept the income determination pursuant to § 92.203(a)(1); and for a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program (
e.g.
housing choice vouchers, etc.) a participating jurisdiction may accept the income determination pursuant to § 92.203(a)(2). Otherwise, an owner who accepts the tenant's statement and certification in accordance with § 92.203(b)(1)(ii) is not required to examine the income of tenants in multifamily or single-family projects unless there is evidence that the tenant's written statement failed to completely and accurately state information about the family's size or income.
(i)
Over-income tenants.
(1) HOME-assisted units continue to qualify as affordable housing despite a temporary noncompliance caused by increases in the incomes of existing tenants if actions satisfactory to HUD are being taken to ensure that all vacancies are filled in accordance with this section until the noncompliance is corrected.
(2) Tenants who no longer qualify as low-income families must pay as rent the lesser of the amount payable by the tenant under State or local law or 30 percent of the family's adjusted income, except that tenants of HOME-assisted units that have been allocated low-income housing tax credits by a housing credit agency pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42) must pay rent governed by section 42. In addition, in projects in which the Home units are designated as floating pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, tenants who no longer qualify as low-income are not required to pay as rent an amount that exceeds the market rent
for comparable, unassisted units in the neighborhood.
(j)
Fixed and floating HOME units.
In a project containing HOME-assisted and other units, the participating jurisdiction may designate fixed or floating HOME units. This designation must be made at the time of project commitment in the written agreement between the participating jurisdiction and the owner, and the HOME units must be identified not later than the time of initial unit occupancy. Fixed units remain the same throughout the period of affordability. Floating units are changed to maintain conformity with the requirements of this section during the period of affordability so that the total number of housing units meeting the requirements of this section remains the same, and each substituted unit is comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms to the originally designated HOME-assisted unit.
(k)
Tenant selection.
The tenants must be selected in accordance with § 92.253(d).
(l)
Ongoing responsibilities.
The participating jurisdiction's responsibilities for on-site inspections and financial oversight of rental projects are set forth in § 92.504(d).
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28929, May 28, 1997; 62 FR 44840, Aug. 22, 1997; 78 FR 44672, July 24, 2013; 88 FR 9663, Feb. 14, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 873, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.252 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.253
Tenant protections and selection.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 876, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Lease.
There must be a written lease between the tenant and the owner of rental housing assisted with HOME funds that is for a period of not less than 1 year, unless by mutual agreement between the tenant and the owner a shorter period is specified. The lease must incorporate the VAWA lease term/addendum required under § 92.359(e), except as otherwise provided by § 92.359(b).
(b)
Prohibited lease terms.
The lease may not contain any of the following provisions:
(1)
Agreement to be sued.
Agreement by the tenant to be sued, to admit guilt, or to a judgment in favor of the owner in a lawsuit brought in connection with the lease;
(2)
Treatment of property.
Agreement by the tenant that the owner may take, hold, or sell personal property of household members without notice to the tenant and a court decision on the rights of the parties. This prohibition, however, does not apply to an agreement by the tenant concerning disposition of personal property remaining in the housing unit after the tenant has moved out of the unit. The owner may dispose of this personal property in accordance with State law;
(3)
Excusing owner from responsibility.
Agreement by the tenant not to hold the owner or the owner's agents legally responsible for any action or failure to act, whether intentional or negligent;
(4)
Waiver of notice.
Agreement of the tenant that the owner may institute a lawsuit without notice to the tenant;
(5)
Waiver of legal proceedings.
Agreement by the tenant that the owner may evict the tenant or household members without instituting a civil court proceeding in which the tenant has the opportunity to present a defense, or before a court decision on the rights of the parties;
(6)
Waiver of a jury trial.
Agreement by the tenant to waive any right to a trial by jury;
(7)
Waiver of right to appeal court decision.
Agreement by the tenant to waive the tenant's right to appeal, or to otherwise challenge in court, a court decision in connection with the lease;
(8)
Tenant chargeable with cost of legal actions regardless of outcome.
Agreement by the tenant to pay attorney's fees or other legal costs even if the tenant wins in a court proceeding by the owner against the tenant. The tenant, however, may be obligated to pay costs if the tenant loses; and
(9)
Mandatory supportive services.
Agreement by the tenant (other than a tenant in transitional housing) to accept supportive services that are offered.
(c)
Termination of tenancy.
An owner may not terminate the tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant of rental housing assisted with HOME
funds, except for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease; for violation of applicable Federal, State, or local law; for completion of the tenancy period for transitional housing or failure to follow any required transitional housing supportive services plan; or for other good cause. Good cause does not include an increase in the tenant's income or refusal of the tenant to purchase the housing. To terminate or refuse to renew tenancy, the owner must serve written notice upon the tenant specifying the grounds for the action at least 30 days before the termination of tenancy.
(d)
Tenant selection.
An owner of rental housing assisted with HOME funds must comply with the affirmative marketing requirements established by the participating jurisdiction pursuant to § 92.351(a). The owner must adopt and follow written tenant selection policies and criteria that:
(1) Limit the housing to very low- income and low-income families;
(2) Are reasonably related to the applicants' ability to perform the obligations of the lease (i.e., to pay the rent, not to damage the housing; not to interfere with the rights and quiet enjoyment of other tenants);
(3) Limit eligibility or give a preference to a particular segment of the population if permitted in its written agreement with the participating jurisdiction (and only if the limitation or preference is described in the participating jurisdiction's consolidated plan).
(i) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in § 92.350. A limitation or preference does not violate nondiscrimination requirements if the housing also receives funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population (e.g., the Housing Opportunity for Persons with AIDS program under 24 CFR part 574, the Shelter Plus Care program under 24 CFR part 582, the Supportive Housing program under 24 CFR part 583, supportive housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities under 24 CFR part 891), and the limit or preference is tailored to serve that segment of the population.
(ii) If a project does not receive funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population, the project may have a limitation or preference for persons with disabilities who need services offered at a project only if:
(A) The limitation or preference is limited to the population of families (including individuals) with disabilities that significantly interfere with their ability to obtain and maintain housing;
(B) Such families will not be able to obtain or maintain themselves in housing without appropriate supportive services; and
(C) Such services cannot be provided in a nonsegregated setting. The families must not be required to accept the services offered at the project. In advertising the project, the owner may advertise the project as offering services for a particular type of disability; however, the project must be open to all otherwise eligible persons with disabilities who may benefit from the services provided in the project.
(4) Do not exclude an applicant with a voucher under the Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance: Housing Choice Voucher Program (24 CFR part 982) or an applicant participating in a HOME tenant-based rental assistance program because of the status of the prospective tenant as a holder of such voucher or comparable HOME tenant-based assistance document.
(5) Provide for the selection of tenants from a written waiting list in the chronological order of their application, insofar as is practicable;
(6) Give prompt written notification to any rejected applicant of the grounds for any rejection; and
(7) Comply with the VAWA requirements prescribed in § 92.359.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 78 FR 44674, July 24, 2013; 81 FR 80803, Nov. 16, 2016; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 876, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.253 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.254
Qualification as affordable housing: Homeownership.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 881, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Acquisition with or without rehabilitation.
Housing that is for acquisition
by a family must meet the affordability requirements of this paragraph (a).
(1) The housing must be single family housing.
(2) The housing must be modest housing as follows:
(i) In the case of acquisition of newly constructed housing or standard housing, the housing has a purchase price for the type of single family housing that does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area, as described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(ii) In the case of acquisition with rehabilitation, the housing has an estimated value after rehabilitation that does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area, described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iii) If a participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyer assistance or for the rehabilitation of owner-occupied single- family properties, the participating jurisdiction must use the HOME affordable homeownership limits provided by HUD for newly constructed housing and for existing housing. HUD will provide limits for affordable newly constructed housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using Federal Housing Administration (FHA) single family mortgage program data for newly constructed housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the U.S. median purchase price for new construction for nonmetropolitan areas. HUD will provide limits for affordable existing housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using Federal FHA single family mortgage program data for existing housing data and other appropriate data that are available nation-wide for sales of existing housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the state-wide nonmetropolitan area median purchase price using this data. In lieu of the limits provided by HUD, the participating jurisdiction may determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price for single family housing in the jurisdiction annually, as follows. The participating jurisdiction must set forth the price for different types of single family housing for the jurisdiction. The participating jurisdiction may determine separate limits for existing housing and newly constructed housing. For housing located outside of metropolitan areas, a State may aggregate sales data from more than one county, if the counties are contiguous and similarly situated. The following information must be included in the annual action plan of the Consolidated Plan submitted to HUD for review and updated in each action plan.
(A) The 95 percent of median area purchase price must be established in accordance with a market analysis that ensured that a sufficient number of recent housing sales are included in the survey.
(B) Sales must cover the requisite number of months based on volume: For 500 or more sales per month, a one- month reporting period; for 250 through 499 sales per month, a 2-month reporting period; for less than 250 sales per month, at least a 3-month reporting period. The data must be listed in ascending order of sales price.
(C) The address of the listed properties must include the location within the participating jurisdiction. Lot, square, and subdivision data may be substituted for the street address.
(D) The housing sales data must reflect all, or nearly all, of the one- family house sales in the entire participating jurisdiction.
(E) To determine the median, take the middle sale on the list if an odd number of sales, and if an even number, take the higher of the middle numbers and consider it the median. After identifying the median sales price, the amount should be multiplied by 0.95 to determine the 95 percent of the median area purchase price.
(3) The housing must be acquired by a homebuyer whose family qualifies as a low-income family, and the housing must be the principal residence of the family throughout the period described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. If there is no ratified sales contract with an eligible homebuyer for the housing within 9 months of the date of completion of construction or rehabilitation, the housing must be rented to an eligible tenant in accordance with § 92.252. In determining the income eligibility
of the family, the participating jurisdiction must include the income of all persons living in the housing. The homebuyer must receive housing counseling.
(4)
Periods of affordability.
The HOME-assisted housing must meet the affordability requirements for not less than the applicable period specified in the following table, beginning after project completion. The per unit amount of HOME funds and the affordability period that they trigger are described more fully in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) (resale) and (ii) (recapture) of this section.
Homeownership assistance HOME amount per-unit
Minimum period of affordability in years
Under $15,000
5
$15,000 to $40,000
10
Over $40,000
15
(5)
Resale and recapture.
The participating jurisdiction must establish the resale or recapture requirements that comply with the standards of this section and set forth the requirements in its consolidated plan. HUD must determine that they are appropriate and must specifically approve them in writing.
(i)
Resale.
Resale requirements must ensure, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability that the housing is made available for subsequent purchase only to a buyer whose family qualifies as a low-income family and will use the property as the family's principal residence. The resale requirement must also ensure that the price at resale provides the original HOME-assisted owner a fair return on investment (including the homeowner's investment and any capital improvement) and ensure that the housing will remain affordable to a reasonable range of low- income homebuyers. The participating jurisdiction must specifically define “fair return on investment” and “affordability to a reasonable range of low-income homebuyers,” and specifically address how it will make the housing affordable to a low-income homebuyer in the event that the resale price necessary to provide fair return is not affordable to the subsequent buyer. The period of affordability is based on the total amount of HOME funds invested in the housing.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(B) of this section, deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other similar mechanisms must be used as the mechanism to impose the resale requirements. The affordability restrictions may terminate upon occurrence of any of the following termination events: foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure or assignment of an FHA insured mortgage to HUD. The participating jurisdiction may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the termination event, obtains an ownership interest in the housing.
(B) Certain housing may be presumed to meet the resale restrictions (i.e., the housing will be available and affordable to a reasonable range of low-income homebuyers; a low-income homebuyer will occupy the housing as the family's principal residence; and the original owner will be afforded a fair return on investment) during the period of affordability without the imposition of enforcement mechanisms by the participating jurisdiction. The presumption must be based upon a market analysis of the neighborhood in which the housing is located. The market analysis must include an evaluation of the location and characteristics of the housing and residents in the neighborhood (e.g., sale prices, age and amenities of the housing stock, incomes of residents, percentage of owner-occupants) in relation to housing and incomes in the housing market area. An analysis of the current and projected incomes of neighborhood residents for an average period of affordability for homebuyers in the neighborhood must support the conclusion that a reasonable range of low-income families will continue to qualify for mortgage financing. For example, an analysis shows that the housing is modestly priced within the housing market area and that families with incomes of 65%
to 80% of area median can afford monthly payments under average FHA terms without other government assistance and housing will remain affordable at least during the next five to seven years compared to other housing in the market area; the size and amenities of the housing are modest and substantial rehabilitation will not significantly increase the market value; the neighborhood has housing that is not currently owned by the occupants, but the participating jurisdiction is encouraging homeownership in the neighborhood by providing homeownership assistance and by making improvements to the streets, sidewalks, and other public facilities and services. If a participating jurisdiction in preparing a neighborhood revitalization strategy under § 91.215(e)(2) of its consolidated plan or Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community application under 24 CFR part 597 has incorporated the type of market data described above, that submission may serve as the required analysis under this section. If the participating jurisdiction continues to provide homeownership assistance for housing in the neighborhood, it must periodically update the market analysis to verify the original presumption of continued affordability.
(ii)
Recapture.
Recapture provisions must ensure that the participating jurisdiction recoups all or a portion of the HOME assistance to the homebuyers, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability. The participating jurisdiction may structure its recapture provisions based on its program design and market conditions. The period of affordability is based upon the total amount of HOME funds subject to recapture described in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A)(
5
) of this section. Recapture provisions may permit the subsequent homebuyer to assume the HOME assistance (subject to the HOME requirements for the remainder of the period of affordability) if the subsequent homebuyer is low-income, and no additional HOME assistance is provided.
(A) The following options for recapture requirements are acceptable to HUD. The participating jurisdiction may adopt, modify or develop its own recapture requirements for HUD approval. In establishing its recapture requirements, the participating jurisdiction is subject to the limitation that when the recapture requirement is triggered by a sale (voluntary or involuntary) of the housing unit, the amount recaptured cannot exceed the net proceeds, if any. The net proceeds are the sales price minus superior loan repayment (other than HOME funds) and any closing costs.
(
1
)
Recapture entire amount.
The participating jurisdiction may recapture the entire amount of the HOME investment from the homeowner.
(
2
)
Reduction during affordability period.
The participating jurisdiction may reduce the HOME investment amount to be recaptured on a prorata basis for the time the homeowner has owned and occupied the housing measured against the required affordability period.
(
3
)
Shared net proceeds.
If the net proceeds are not sufficient to recapture the full HOME investment (or a reduced amount as provided for in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A)(2) of this section) plus enable the homeowner to recover the amount of the homeowner's downpayment and any capital improvement investment made by the owner since purchase, the participating jurisdiction may share the net proceeds. The net proceeds are the sales price minus loan repayment (other than HOME funds) and closing costs. The net proceeds may be divided proportionally as set forth in the following mathematical formulas:
EC12OC91.007
(
4
)
Owner investment returned first.
The participating jurisdiction may permit the homebuyer to recover the homebuyer's entire investment (downpayment and capital improvements made by the owner since purchase) before recapturing the HOME investment.
(
5
)
Amount subject to recapture.
The HOME investment that is subject to recapture is based on the amount of HOME assistance that enabled the homebuyer to buy the dwelling unit. This includes any HOME assistance that reduced the purchase price from fair market value to an affordable price, but excludes the amount between the cost of producing the unit and the market value of the property (i.e., the development subsidy). The recaptured funds must be used to carry out HOME-eligible activities in accordance with the requirements of this part. If the HOME assistance is only used for the development subsidy and therefore not subject to recapture, the resale option must be used.
(6)
Special considerations for single-family properties with more than one unit.
If the HOME funds are only used to assist a low-income homebuyer to acquire one unit in single-family housing containing more than one unit and the assisted unit will be the principal residence of the homebuyer, the affordability requirements of this section apply only to the assisted unit. If HOME funds are also used to assist the low-income homebuyer to acquire one or more of the rental units in the single-family housing, the affordability requirements of § 92.252 apply to assisted rental units, except that the participating jurisdiction may impose resale or recapture restrictions on all assisted units (owner-occupied and rental units) in the single family housing. If resale restrictions are used, the affordability requirements on all assisted units continue for the period of affordability. If recapture restrictions are used, the affordability requirements on the assisted rental units may be terminated, at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction, upon recapture of the HOME investment. (If HOME funds are used to assist only the rental units in such a property then the requirements of § 92.252 would apply and the owner-occupied unit would not be subject to the income targeting or affordability provisions of § 92.254.)
(7)
Lease-purchase.
HOME funds may be used to assist homebuyers through lease-purchase programs for existing housing and for housing to be constructed. The housing must be purchased by a homebuyer within 36 months of signing the lease'purchase agreement. The homebuyer must qualify as a low-income family at the time the lease-purchase agreement is signed. If HOME funds are used to acquire housing that will be resold to a homebuyer through a lease-purchase program, the HOME affordability requirements for rental housing in § 92.252 shall apply if the housing is not transferred to a homebuyer within forty-two months after project completion.
(8)
Contract to purchase.
If HOME funds are used to assist a homebuyer who has entered into a contract to purchase housing to be constructed, the homebuyer must qualify as a low-income family at the time the contract is signed.
(9)
Preserving affordability of housing that was previously assisted with HOME funds.
(i) To preserve the affordability of HOME-assisted housing a participating jurisdiction may use additional HOME funds for the following costs:
(A) The cost to acquire the housing through a purchase option, right of first refusal, or other preemptive right before foreclosure, or at the foreclosure sale. (The foreclosure costs to acquire housing with a HOME loan in default are eligible. However, HOME funds may not be used to repay a loan made with HOME funds.)
(B) The cost to undertake any necessary rehabilitation for the housing acquired.
(C) The cost of owning/holding the housing pending resale to another homebuyer.
(D) The cost to assist another homebuyer in purchasing the housing.
(ii) When a participating jurisdiction uses HOME funds to preserve the affordability of such housing, the additional investment must be treated as an amendment to the original project. The housing must be sold to a new eligible homebuyer in accordance with
the requirements of § 92.254(a) within a reasonable period of time.
(iii) The total amount of the original and additional HOME assistance may not exceed the maximum per unit subsidy amount established under § 92.250. Alternatively to charging the cost to the HOME program under § 92.206, the participating jurisdiction may charge the cost to the HOME program under § 92.207 as a reasonable administrative cost of its HOME program, so that the additional HOME funds for the housing are not subject to the maximum per-unit subsidy amount. To the extent administrative funds are used, they may be reimbursed, in whole or in part, when the housing is sold to a new eligible homebuyer.
(b)
Rehabilitation not involving acquisition.
Housing that is currently owned by a family qualifies as affordable housing only if:
(1) The estimated value of the property, after rehabilitation, does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area, described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section; and
(2) The housing is the principal residence of an owner whose family qualifies as a low-income family at the time HOME funds are committed to the housing. In determining the income eligibility of the family, the participating jurisdiction must include the income of all persons living in the housing.
(c)
Ownership interest.
The ownership in the housing assisted under this section must meet the definition of “homeownership” in § 92.2, except that housing that is rehabilitated pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may also include inherited property with multiple owners, life estates, living trusts and beneficiary deeds under the following conditions. The participating jurisdiction has the right to establish the terms of assistance.
(1)
Inherited property.
Inherited property with multiple owners: Housing for which title has been passed to several individuals by inheritance, but not all heirs reside in the housing, sharing ownership with other nonresident heirs. (The occupant of the housing has a divided ownership interest.) The participating jurisdiction may assist the owner-occupant if the occupant is low-income, occupies the housing as his or her principal residence, and pays all the costs associated with ownership and maintenance of the housing (e.g., mortgage, taxes, insurance, utilities).
(2)
Life estate.
The person who has the life estate has the right to live in the housing for the remainder of his or her life and does not pay rent. The participating jurisdiction may assist the person holding the life estate if the person is low-income and occupies the housing as his or her principal residence.
(3)
Inter vivos trust, also known as a living trust.
A living trust is created during the lifetime of a person. A living trust is created when the owner of property conveys his or her property to a trust for his or her own benefit or for that of a third party (the beneficiaries). The trust holds legal title and the beneficiary holds equitable title. The person may name him or herself as the beneficiary. The trustee is under a fiduciary responsibility to hold and manage the trust assets for the beneficiary. The participating jurisdiction may assist if all beneficiaries of the trust qualify as a low-income family and occupy the property as their principal residence (except that contingent beneficiaries, who receive no benefit from the trust nor have any control over the trust assets until the beneficiary is deceased, need not be low-income). The trust must be valid and enforceable and ensure that each beneficiary has the legal right to occupy the property for the remainder of his or her life.
(4)
Beneficiary deed.
A beneficiary deed conveys an interest in real property, including any debt secured by a lien on real property, to a grantee beneficiary designated by the owner and that expressly states that the deed is effective on the death of the owner. Upon the death of the owner, the grantee beneficiary receives ownership in the property, subject to all conveyances, assignments, contracts, mortgages, deeds of trust, liens, security pledges, and other encumbrances made by the owner or to which the owner was subject during the owner's lifetime. The participating jurisdiction may assist if the owner qualifies as low-income and the owner occupies the
property as his or her principal residence.
(d)
New construction without acquisition.
Newly constructed housing that is built on property currently owned by a family which will occupy the housing upon completion, qualifies as affordable housing if it meets the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Providing homeownership assistance through lenders.
Subject to the requirements of this paragraph (e), the participating jurisdiction may provide homeownership assistance through for-profit or nonprofit lending institutions that provide the first mortgage loan to a low-income family.
(1) The homeownership assistance may be provided only as specified in a written agreement between the participating jurisdiction and the lender. The written agreement must specify the forms and amounts of homeownership assistance that the participating jurisdiction authorizes the lender to provide to families and any conditions that apply to the provision of such homeownership assistance.
(2) Before the lender provides any homeownership assistance to a family, the participating jurisdiction must verify that the family is low-income and must inspect the housing for compliance with the property standards in § 92.251.
(3) No fees (e.g., origination fees or points) may be charged to a family for the HOME homeownership assistance provided pursuant to this paragraph (e), and the participating jurisdiction must determine that the fees and other amounts charged to the family by the lender for the first mortgage financing are reasonable. Reasonable administrative costs may be charged to the HOME program as a project cost. If the participating jurisdiction requires lenders to pay a fee to participate in the HOME program, the fee is program income to the HOME program.
(4) If the nonprofit lender is a subrecipient or contractor that is receiving HOME assistance to determine that the family is eligible for homeownership assistance, but the participating jurisdiction or another entity is making the assistance to the homebuyer (e.g., signing the documents for the loan or the grant), the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section are applicable.
(f)
Homebuyer program policies.
The participating jurisdiction must have and follow written policies for:
(1) Underwriting standards for homeownership assistance that evaluate housing debt and overall debt of the family, the appropriateness of the amount of assistance, monthly expenses of the family, assets available to acquire the housing, and financial resources to sustain homeownership;
(2) Responsible lending, and
(3) Refinancing loans to which HOME loans are subordinated to ensure that the terms of the new loan are reasonable.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 68 FR 10161, Mar. 4, 2003; 69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004; 69 FR 68052, Nov. 22, 2004; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44674, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 881, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.254 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.255
Converting rental units to homeownership units for existing tenants.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) The participating jurisdiction may permit the owner of HOME-assisted rental units to convert the rental units to homeownership units by selling, donating, or otherwise conveying the units to the existing tenants to enable the tenants to become homeowners in accordance with the requirements of § 92.254. However, refusal by the tenant to purchase the housing does not constitute grounds for eviction or for failure to renew the lease.
(b) If no additional HOME funds are used to enable the tenants to become homeowners, the homeownership units are subject to a minimum period of affordability equal to the remaining affordable period if the units continued as rental units. If additional HOME funds are used to directly assist the tenants to become homeowners, the minimum period of affordability is the affordability period under § 92.254(a)(4), based on the amount of direct homeownership assistance provided.
[78 FR 44676, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.255 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.256
[Reserved]
§ 92.257
Equal participation of faith-based organizations.
The HUD program requirements in § 5.109 apply to the HOME program, including the requirements regarding disposition and change in use of real property by a faith-based organization.
[81 FR 19418, Apr. 4, 2016]
§ 92.258
Elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
HOME funds may be used for the initial purchase and initial placement costs of elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units that meet the requirements of this section, and that are small, free-standing, barrier-free, energy-efficient, removable, and designed to be installed adjacent to existing single-family dwellings.
(b)
Eligible owners.
The owner of a HOME-assisted ECHO unit may be:
(1) The owner-occupant of the single-family host property on which the ECHO unit will be located;
(2) A participating jurisdiction; or
(3) A non-profit organization.
(c)
Eligible tenants.
During the affordability period, the tenant of a HOME-assisted ECHO unit must be an elderly or disabled family as defined in 24 CFR 5.403 and must also be a low-income family.
(d)
Applicable requirements.
The requirements of § 92.252 apply to HOME-assisted ECHO units, with the following modifications:
(1) Only one ECHO unit may be provided per host property.
(2) The ECHO unit owner may choose whether or not to charge the tenant of the ECHO unit rent, but if a rent is charged, it must meet the requirements of § 92.252.
(3) The ECHO housing must remain affordable for the period specified in § 92.252(e). If within the affordability period the original occupant no longer occupies the unit, the ECHO unit owner must:
(i) Rent the unit to another eligible occupant on site;
(ii) Move the ECHO unit to another site for occupancy by an eligible occupant; or
(iii) If the owner of the ECHO unit is the host property owner-occupant, the owner may repay the HOME funds in accordance with the recapture provisions imposed by the participating jurisdiction consistent with § 92.254(a)(5)(ii). The participating jurisdiction must use the recaptured HOME funds for additional HOME activities.
(4) The participating jurisdiction has the responsibility to enforce the project requirements applicable to ECHO units.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.258 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Subpart G—Community Housing Development Organizations
§ 92.300
Set-aside for community housing development organizations (CHDOs).
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) Within 24 months after the date that HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnerships Agreement, the participating jurisdiction must reserve not less than 15 percent of the HOME allocation for investment only in housing to be owned, developed or sponsored by community housing development organizations. For a State, the HOME allocation includes funds reallocated under § 92.451(c)(2)(i) and, for a unit of general local government, includes funds transferred from a State under § 92.102(b). The participating jurisdiction must certify the organization as meeting the definition of “community housing development organization” and must document that the organization has capacity to own, develop, or sponsor housing each time it commits funds to the organization. For purposes of this paragraph:
(1) Funds are reserved when a participating jurisdiction enters into a written agreement with the community housing development organization (or project owner as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) committing the funds to a specific local project in accordance with paragraph (2) of the definition of “commitment” in § 92.2.
(2) Rental housing is “owned” by the community housing development organization if the community housing development organization is the owner in fee simple absolute of multifamily or single family housing (or has a long term ground lease) for rental to low-income families in accordance with § 92.252. If the housing is to be rehabilitated or constructed, the community housing development organization hires and oversees the developer that rehabilitates or constructs the housing. At minimum, the community housing development organization must hire or contract with an experienced project manager to oversee all aspects of the development, including obtaining zoning, securing non-HOME financing, selecting a developer or general contractor, overseeing the progress of the work and determining the reasonableness of costs. The community housing development organization must own the rental housing during development and for a period at least equal to the period of affordability in § 92.252. If the CHDO acquires housing that meets the property standards in § 92.251, the CHDO must own the rental housing for a period at least equal to the period of affordability in § 92.252.
(3) Rental housing is “developed” by the community development housing organization if the community housing development organization is the owner of multifamily or single family housing in fee simple absolute (or has a long term ground lease) and the developer of new housing that will be constructed or existing substandard housing that will be rehabilitated for rent to low-income families in accordance with § 92.252. To be the “developer,” the community development housing organization must be in sole charge of all aspects of the development process, including obtaining zoning, securing non-HOME financing, selecting architects, engineers and general contractors, overseeing the progress of the work and determining the reasonableness of costs. At a minimum, the community housing development organization must own the housing during development and for a period at least equal to the period of affordability in § 92.252.
(4) Rental housing is “sponsored” by the community development housing organization if it is rental housing “owned” or “developed” by a subsidiary of a community housing development organization, a limited partnership of which the community housing development organization or its subsidiary is the sole general partner, or a limited liability company of which the community housing development organization or its subsidiary is the sole managing member.
(i) The subsidiary of the community housing development organization may be a for-profit or nonprofit organization and must be wholly owned by the community housing development organization. If the limited partnership or limited liability company agreement permits the community housing development organization to be removed as general partner or sole managing member, the agreement must provide that the removal must be for cause and that the community housing development organization must be replaced with another community housing development organization.
(ii) The HOME funds must be provided to the entity that owns the project.
(5) HOME-assisted rental housing is also “sponsored” by a community housing development organization if the community housing development organization “developed” the rental housing project that it agrees to convey to an identified private nonprofit organization at a predetermined time after completion of the development of the project. Sponsored rental housing, as provided in this paragraph (a)(5), is subject to the following requirements:
(i) The private nonprofit organization may not be created by a governmental entity.
(ii) The HOME funds must be invested in the project that is owned by the community housing development organization.
(iii) Before commitment of HOME funds, the community housing development organization sponsor must select the nonprofit organization that will obtain ownership of the property.
(A) The nonprofit organization assumes the community housing development organization's HOME obligations
(including any repayment of loans) for the rental project at a specified time after completion of development.
(B) If the housing is not transferred to the nonprofit organization, the community housing development organization sponsor remains responsible for the HOME assistance and the HOME project.
(6) Housing for homeownership is “developed” by the community development housing organization if the community housing development organization is the owner (in fee simple absolute) and developer of new housing that will be constructed or existing substandard housing that will be rehabilitated for sale to low-income families in accordance with § 92.254.
(i) To be the “developer” the community development housing organization must arrange financing of the project and be in sole charge of construction. The community housing development organization may provide direct homeownership assistance (e.g., downpayment assistance) when it sells the housing to low-income families and the community housing development organization will not be considered a subrecipient. The HOME funds for downpayment assistance shall not be greater than 10 percent of the amount of HOME funds for development of the housing.
(ii) The participating jurisdiction must determine and set forth in its written agreement with the community housing development organization the actual sales prices of the housing or the method by which the sales prices for the housing will be established and whether the proceeds must be returned to the participating jurisdiction or may be retained by the community housing development organization.
(A) While proceeds that the participating jurisdiction permits the community housing development organization to retain are not subject to the requirements of this part, the participating jurisdiction must specify in the written agreement with the community housing development organization whether the proceeds are to be used for HOME-eligible activities or other housing activities to benefit low-income families.
(B) Funds that are recaptured because the housing no longer meets the affordability requirements under § 92.254(a)(5)(ii) are subject to the requirements of this part in accordance with § 92.503.
(7) The participating jurisdiction determines the form of assistance (e.g., grant or loan) that it will provide to the community housing development organization receives or, for rental housing projects under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, to the entity that owns the project.
(b) Each participating jurisdiction must make reasonable efforts to identify community housing development organizations that are capable, or can reasonably be expected to become capable, of carrying out elements of the jurisdiction's approved consolidated plan and to encourage such community housing development organizations to do so. If during the first 24 months of its participation in the HOME Program a participating jurisdiction cannot identify a sufficient number of capable community housing development organizations, up to 20 percent of the minimum community housing development organization setaside of 15 percent specified in paragraph (a) of this section, above, (but not more than $150,000 during the 24 month period) may be committed to develop the capacity of community housing development organizations in the jurisdiction.
(c) Up to 10 percent of the HOME funds reserved under this section may be used for activities specified under § 92.301.
(d) HOME funds required to be reserved under this section are subject to reduction, as provided in § 92.500(d).
(e) If funds for operating expenses are provided under § 92.208 to a community housing development organization that is not also receiving funds under paragraph (a) of this section for housing to be owned, developed or sponsored by the community housing development organization, the participating jurisdiction's written agreement with the community housing development organization must provide that the community housing development organization is expected to receive funds under paragraph (a) of this section for a project
within 24 months of the date of receiving the funds for operating expenses, and specifies the terms and conditions upon which this expectation is based.
(f) The participating jurisdiction must ensure that a community housing development organization does not receive HOME funding for any fiscal year in an amount that provides more than 50 percent or $50,000, whichever is greater, of the community housing development organization's total operating expenses in that fiscal year. This also includes organizational support and housing education provided under section 233(b)(1), (2), and (6) of the Act, as well as funds for operating expenses provided under § 92.208.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997; 78 FR 44677, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 886, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.300 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.301
Project-specific assistance to community housing development organizations.
(a)
Project-specific technical assistance and site control loans
—(1)
General.
Within the percentage specified in § 92.300(c), HOME funds may be used by a participating jurisdiction to provide technical assistance and site control loans to community housing development organizations in the early stages of site development for an eligible project. These loans may not exceed amounts that the participating jurisdiction determines to be customary and reasonable project preparation costs allowable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. All costs must be related to a specific eligible project or projects.
(2)
Allowable costs.
A loan may be provided to cover project costs necessary to determine project feasibility (including costs of an initial feasibility study), consulting fees, costs of preliminary financial applications, legal fees, architectural fees, engineering fees, engagement of a development team, option to acquire property, site control and title clearance. General operational expenses of the community housing development organization are not allowable costs.
(3)
Repayment.
The community housing development organization must repay the loan to the participating jurisdiction from construction loan proceeds or other project income. The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan, in part or in whole, if there are impediments to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are reasonably beyond the control of the borrower.
(b)
Project-specific seed money loans
—(1)
General.
Within the percentage specified in § 92.300(c), HOME funds may be used to provide loans to community housing development organizations to cover preconstruction project costs that the participating jurisdiction determines to be customary and reasonable, including, but not limited to the costs of obtaining firm construction loan commitments, architectural plans and specifications, zoning approvals, engineering studies, and legal fees.
(2)
Eligible sponsors.
A loan may be provided only to a community housing development organization that has, with respect to the project concerned, site control (evidenced by a deed, a sales contract, or an option contract to acquire the property), a preliminary financial commitment, and a capable development team.
(3)
Repayment.
The community housing development organization must repay the loan to the participating jurisdiction from construction loan proceeds or other project income. The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan, in whole or in part, if there are impediments to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are reasonably beyond the control of the community housing development organization.
§ 92.302
Housing education and organizational support.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
HUD is authorized to provide education and organizational support assistance, in conjunction with HOME funds made available to community housing development organizations in accordance with section 233 of the Act. HUD will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of funding under this section, as
appropriate. The notice need not include funding for each of the eligible activities, but may target funding from among the eligible activities.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.302 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.303
Tenant participation plan.
A community housing development organization that receives assistance under this part must adhere to a fair lease and grievance procedure approved by the participating jurisdiction and provide a plan for and follow a program of tenant participation in management decisions.

# Subpart H—Other Federal Requirements
§ 92.350
Other Federal requirements and nondiscrimination.
(a) The Federal requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A, are applicable to participants in the HOME program. The requirements of this subpart include: nondiscrimination and equal opportunity; disclosure requirements; debarred, suspended or ineligible contractors; drug-free work; and housing counseling.
(b) The nondiscrimination requirements at section 282 of the Act are applicable. These requirements are waived in connection with the use of HOME funds on lands set aside under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 108).
[62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 92.351
Affirmative marketing; minority outreach program.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Affirmative marketing.
(1) Each participating jurisdiction must adopt and follow affirmative marketing procedures and requirements for rental and homebuyer projects containing five or more HOME-assisted housing units. Affirmative marketing requirements and procedures also apply to all HOME- funded programs, including, but not limited to, tenant-based rental assistance and downpayment assistance programs. Affirmative marketing steps consist of actions to provide information and otherwise attract eligible persons in the housing market area to the available housing without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, familial status, or disability. If participating jurisdiction's written agreement with the project owner permits the rental housing project to limit tenant eligibility or to have a tenant preference in accordance with § 92.253(d)(3), the participating jurisdiction must have affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that apply in the context of the limited/preferred tenant eligibility for the project.
(2) The affirmative marketing requirements and procedures adopted must include:
(i) Methods for informing the public, owners, and potential tenants about Federal fair housing laws and the participating jurisdiction's affirmative marketing policy (e.g., the use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan in press releases and solicitations for owners, and written communication to fair housing and other groups);
(ii) Requirements and practices each subrecipient and owner must adhere to in order to carry out the participating jurisdiction's affirmative marketing procedures and requirements (e.g., use of commercial media, use of community contacts, use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan, and display of fair housing poster);
(iii) Procedures to be used by subrecipients and owners to inform and solicit applications from persons in the housing market area who are not likely to apply for the housing program or the housing without special outreach (e.g., through the use of community organizations, places of worship, employment centers, fair housing groups, or housing counseling agencies);
(iv) Records that will be kept describing actions taken by the participating jurisdiction and by subrecipients and owners to affirmatively market the program and units and records to assess the results of these actions; and
(v) A description of how the participating jurisdiction will annually assess the success of affirmative marketing actions and what corrective actions will be taken where affirmative marketing requirements are not met.
(3) A State that distributes HOME funds to units of general local government must require each unit of general local government to adopt affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that meet the requirement in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(b)
Minority outreach.
A participating jurisdiction must prescribe procedures acceptable to HUD to establish and oversee a minority outreach program within its jurisdiction to ensure the inclusion, to the maximum extent possible, of minorities and women, and entities owned by minorities and women, including, without limitation, real estate firms, construction firms, appraisal firms, management firms, financial institutions, investment banking firms, underwriters, accountants, and providers of legal services, in all contracts entered into by the participating jurisdiction with such persons or entities, public and private, in order to facilitate the activities of the participating jurisdiction to provide affordable housing authorized under this Act or any other Federal housing law applicable to such jurisdiction. Section 200.321 of title 2 Code of Federal Regulations describes actions to be taken by a participating jurisdiction to assure that minority business enterprises and women business enterprises are used when possible in the procurement of property and services.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44678, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.351 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.352
Environmental review.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
The environmental effects of each activity carried out with HOME funds must be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321) and the related authorities listed in HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 50 and 58. The applicability of the provisions of 24 CFR part 50 or part 58 is based on the HOME project (new construction, rehabilitation, acquisition) or activity (tenant-based rental assistance) as a whole, not on the type of the cost paid with HOME funds.
(b)
Responsibility for review.
(1) The jurisdiction (e.g., the participating jurisdiction or State recipient) or insular area must assume responsibility for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action for each activity that it carries out with HOME funds, in accordance with the requirements imposed on a recipient under 24 CFR part 58. No funds may be committed to a HOME activity or project before the completion of the environmental review and approval of the request for release of funds and related certification, except as authorized by 24 CFR part 58.
(2) A State participating jurisdiction must also assume responsibility for approval of requests for release of HOME funds submitted by State recipients.
(3) HUD will perform the environmental review, in accordance with 24 CFR part 50, for a competitively awarded application for HOME funds submitted to HUD by an entity that is not a jurisdiction.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44678, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.352 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.353
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, the participating jurisdiction must ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted with HOME funds. To the extent feasible, residential tenants must be provided a reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable dwelling unit in the building/complex upon completion of the project.
(b)
Temporary relocation.
The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing and any increase in monthly rent/utility costs.
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:
(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;
(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;
(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex upon completion of the project; and
(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons
—(1)
General.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and 49 CFR part 24. A “displaced person” must be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act and, if the comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, the minority person also must be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
(2)
Displaced Person.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the term
displaced person
means a person (family individual, business, nonprofit organization, or farm, including any corporation, partnership or association) that moves from real property or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted with HOME funds. This includes any permanent, involuntary move for an assisted project, including any permanent move from the real property that is made:
(A) After notice by the owner to move permanently from the property, if the move occurs on or after:
(
1
) The date of the submission of an application to the participating jurisdiction or HUD, if the applicant has site control and the application is later approved; or
(
2
) The date the jurisdiction approves the applicable site, if the applicant does not have site control at the time of the application; or
(B) Before the date described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, if the jurisdiction or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project; or
(C) By a tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit, if any one of the following three situations occurs:
(
1
) The tenant moves after execution of the agreement covering the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition and the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering the tenant the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex upon completion of the project under reasonable terms and conditions. Such reasonable terms and conditions must include a term of at least one year at a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(
i
) The tenant's monthly rent before such agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or
(
ii
) The total tenant payment, as determined under 24 CFR 5.628, if the tenant is low-income, or 30 percent of gross household income, if the tenant is not low-income;
(
2
) The tenant is required to relocate temporarily, does not return to the building/complex, and either
(
i
) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation; or
(
ii
) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or
(
3
) The tenant is required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex but is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move, or other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a person does not qualify as a
displaced person
if:
(A) The person has been evicted for cause based upon a serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and the participating jurisdiction determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance. The effective date of any termination or refusal to renew must be preceded by at least 30 days advance written notice to the tenant specifying the grounds for the action.
(B) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application but, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, incur a rent increase), and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance under this section) as a result of the project;
(C) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(D) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project.
(iii) The jurisdiction may, at any time, ask HUD to determine whether a displacement is or would be covered by this rule.
(3)
Initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing replacement housing assistance to be provided under paragraph (c) of this section to a tenant displaced from a dwelling as a direct result of private-owner rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition of the real property, the term
initiation of negotiations
means the execution of the agreement covering the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition.
(d)
Optional relocation assistance.
The participating jurisdiction may provide relocation payments and other relocation assistance to families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms displaced by a project assisted with HOME funds where the displacement is not subject to paragraph (c) of this section. The jurisdiction may also provide relocation assistance to persons covered under paragraph (c) of this section beyond that required. For any such assistance that is not required by State or local law, the jurisdiction must adopt a written policy available to the public that describes the optional relocation assistance that it has elected to furnish and provides for equal relocation assistance within each class of displaced persons.
(e)
Residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan.
The participating jurisdiction shall comply with the requirements of 24 CFR part 42, subpart C.
(f)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(g)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the participating jurisdiction's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a displaced person, or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person may be eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the jurisdiction. A low-income person who is dissatisfied with the jurisdiction's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 51760, Oct. 3, 1996; 62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 78 FR 44678, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 887, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.353 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.354
Labor.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
(1) Every contract for the construction (rehabilitation or new construction) of housing that includes 12 or more units assisted with HOME funds must contain a provision requiring the payment of not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40
U.S.C. 3141), to all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of any part of the housing. Such contracts must also be subject to the overtime provisions, as applicable, of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701).
(2) The contract for construction must contain these wage provisions if HOME funds are used for any project costs in § 92.206, including construction or nonconstruction costs, of housing with 12 or more HOME-assisted units. When HOME funds are only used to assist homebuyers to acquire single-family housing, and not for any other project costs, the wage provisions apply to the construction of the housing if there is a written agreement with the owner or developer of the housing that HOME funds will be used to assist homebuyers to buy the housing and the construction contract covers 12 or more housing units to be purchased with HOME assistance. The wage provisions apply to any construction contract that includes a total of 12 or more HOME-assisted units, whether one or more than one project is covered by the construction contract. Once they are determined to be applicable, the wage provisions must be contained in the construction contract so as to cover all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of the entire project, including portions other than the assisted units. Arranging multiple construction contracts within a single project for the purpose of avoiding the wage provisions is not permitted.
(3) Participating jurisdictions, contractors, subcontractors, and other participants must comply with regulations issued under these acts and with other Federal laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards, as applicable. Participating jurisdictions shall be responsible for ensuring compliance by contractors and subcontractors with labor standards described in this section. In accordance with procedures specified by HUD, participating jurisdictions shall:
(i) Ensure that bid and contract documents contain required labor standards provisions and the appropriate Department of Labor wage determinations;
(ii) Conduct on-site inspections and employee interviews;
(iii) Collect and review certified weekly payroll reports;
(iv) Correct all labor standards violations promptly;
(v) Maintain documentation of administrative and enforcement activities; and
(vi) Require certification as to compliance with the provisions of this section before making any payment under such contracts.
(b)
Volunteers.
The prevailing wage provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to an individual who receives no compensation or is paid expenses, reasonable benefits, or a nominal fee to perform the services for which the individual volunteered and who is not otherwise employed at any time in the construction work. See 24 CFR part 70.
(c)
Sweat equity.
The prevailing wage provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to members of an eligible family who provide labor in exchange for acquisition of a property for homeownership or provide labor in lieu of, or as a supplement to, rent payments.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44678, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.354 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.355
Lead-based paint.
Housing assisted with HOME funds is subject to the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, M and R of this title.
[64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999]
§ 92.356
Conflict of interest.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Applicability.
In the procurement of property and services by participating jurisdictions, State recipients, and subrecipients, the conflict of interest provisions in 2 CFR 200.317 and 2 CFR 200.318, apply. In all cases not governed by 2 CFR 200.317 and 2 CFR
200.318, the provisions of this section apply.
(b)
Conflicts prohibited.
No persons described in paragraph (c) of this section who exercise or have exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to activities assisted with HOME funds or who are in a position to participate in a decision-making process or gain inside information with regard to these activities may obtain a financial interest or financial benefit from a HOME-assisted activity, or have a financial interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect to the HOME-assisted activity, or the proceeds from such activity, either for themselves or those with whom they have business or immediate family ties, during their tenure or for one year thereafter. Immediate family ties include (whether by blood, marriage or adoption) the spouse, parent (including a stepparent), child (including a stepchild), brother, sister (including a stepbrother or stepsister), grandparent, grandchild, and in-laws of a covered person.
(c)
Persons covered.
The conflict of interest provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to any person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected official or appointed official of the participating jurisdiction, State recipient, or subrecipient which are receiving HOME funds.
(d)
Exceptions: Threshold requirements.
Upon the written request of the participating jurisdiction, HUD may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determines that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the HOME Investment Partnerships Program and the effective and efficient administration of the participating jurisdiction's program or project. An exception may be considered only after the participating jurisdiction has provided the following:
(1) A disclosure of the nature of the conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and
(2) An opinion of the participating jurisdiction's or State recipient's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate State or local law.
(e)
Factors to be considered for exceptions.
In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the participating jurisdiction has satisfactorily met the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, HUD will consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable:
(1) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or an essential degree of expertise to the program or project which would otherwise not be available;
(2) Whether the person affected is a member of a group or class of low-income persons intended to be the beneficiaries of the assisted activity, and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(3) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted activity in question;
(4) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (c) of this section;
(5) Whether undue hardship will result either to the participating jurisdiction or the person affected when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict; and
(6) Any other relevant considerations.
(f)
Owners and developers.
(1) No owner, developer, or sponsor of a project assisted with HOME funds (or officer, employee, agent, elected or appointed official, or consultant of the owner, developer, or sponsor or immediate family member or immediate family member of an officer, employee, agent, elected or appointed official, or consultant of the owner, developer, or sponsor) whether private, for-profit or nonprofit (including a community housing development organization (CHDO) when acting as an owner, developer, or sponsor) may occupy a HOME-assisted affordable housing unit in a project during the required period of affordability specified in § 92.252(e) or § 92.254(a)(4). This provision does not
apply to an individual who receives HOME funds to acquire or rehabilitate his or her principal residence or to an employee or agent of the owner or developer of a rental housing project who occupies a housing unit as the project manager or maintenance worker.
(2)
Exceptions.
Upon written request of a housing owner or developer, the participating jurisdiction (or State recipient, if authorized by the State participating jurisdiction) may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determines that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the HOME program and the effective and efficient administration of the owner's or developer's HOME-assisted project. In determining whether to grant a requested exception, the participating jurisdiction shall consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the person receiving the benefit is a member of a group or class of low-income persons intended to be the beneficiaries of the assisted housing, and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(ii) Whether the person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted housing in question;
(iii) Whether the tenant protection requirements of § 92.253 are being observed;
(iv) Whether the affirmative marketing requirements of § 92.351 are being observed and followed; and
(v) Any other factor relevant to the participating jurisdiction's determination, including the timing of the requested exception.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997; 78 FR 44679, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.356 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.357
Executive Order 12372.
(a)
General.
Executive Order 12372, as amended by Executive Order 12416 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197 and 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 186) (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 52, allow each State to establish its own process for review and comment on proposed Federal financial assistance programs.
(b)
Applicability.
Executive Order 12372 applies to applications submitted with respect to HOME funds being competitively reallocated under subpart J of this part to units of general local government.
§ 92.358
Consultant activities.
No person providing consultant services in an employer-employee type relationship shall receive more than a reasonable rate of compensation for personal services paid with HOME funds. In no event, however, shall such compensation exceed the limits in effect under the provisions of any applicable statute (e.g., annual HUD appropriations acts which have set the limit at the equivalent of the daily rate paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule, see the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997, Pub. L. 104-204 (September 26, 1996)). Such services shall be evidenced by written agreements between the parties which detail the responsibilities, standards, and compensation. Consultant services provided under an independent contractor relationship are not subject to the compensation limitation of Level IV of the Executive Schedule.
[62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997]
§ 92.359
VAWA requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
(1) The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, apply to all HOME tenant-based rental assistance and rental housing assisted with HOME funds, as supplemented by this section.
(2) For the HOME program, the “covered housing provider,” as this term is used in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, refers to:
(i) The housing owner for the purposes of 24 CFR 5.2005(d)(1), (d)(3), and (d)(4) and § 5.2009(a); and
(ii) The participating jurisdiction and the owner for purposes of 24 CFR
5.2005(d)(2), 5.2005(e), and 5.2007, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(b)
Effective date.
The core statutory protections of VAWA that prohibit denial or termination of assistance or eviction solely because an applicant or tenant is a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking became applicable upon enactment of VAWA 2013 on March 7, 2013. Compliance with the VAWA regulatory requirements under this section and 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, are required for any tenant-based rental assistance or rental housing project for which the date of the HOME funding commitment is on or after
December 16, 2016
.
(c)
Notification requirements.
The participating jurisdiction must provide a notice and certification form that meet the requirements of 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the owner of HOME-assisted rental housing.
(1)
For HOME-assisted units.
The owner of HOME-assisted rental housing must provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the applicant for a HOME-assisted unit at the time the applicant is admitted to a HOME-assisted unit, or denied admission to a HOME-assisted unit based on the owner's tenant selection policies and criteria. The owner of HOME-assisted rental housing must also provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005 with any notification of eviction from a HOME-assisted unit.
(2)
For HOME tenant-based rental assistance.
The participating jurisdiction must provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the applicant for HOME tenant-based rental assistance when the applicant's HOME tenant-based rental assistance is approved or denied. The participating jurisdiction must also provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to a tenant receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance when the participating jurisdiction provides the tenant with notification of termination of the HOME tenant-based rental assistance, and when the participating jurisdiction learns that the tenant's housing owner intends to provide the tenant with notification of eviction.
(d)
Bifurcation of lease requirements.
For the purposes of this part, the following requirements shall apply in place of the requirements at 24 CFR 5.2009(b):
(1) If a family living in a HOME-assisted rental unit separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the remaining tenant(s) may remain in the HOME-assisted unit.
(2) If a family who is receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the remaining tenant(s) will retain the HOME tenant-based rental assistance. The participating jurisdiction must determine whether the tenant that was removed from the unit will receive HOME tenant-based rental assistance.
(e)
VAWA lease term/addendum.
The participating jurisdiction must develop a VAWA lease term/addendum to incorporate all requirements that apply to the owner or lease under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and this section, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.2005(b) and (c). This VAWA lease term/addendum must also provide that the tenant may terminate the lease without penalty if the participating jurisdiction determines that the tenant has met the conditions for an emergency transfer under 24 CFR 5.2005(e). When HOME tenant-based rental assistance is provided, the lease term/addendum must require the owner to notify the participating jurisdiction before the owner bifurcates the lease or provides notification of eviction to the tenant. If HOME tenant-based rental assistance is the only assistance provided (
i.e.,
the unit is not receiving project-based assistance under a covered housing program, as defined in 24 CFR 5.2003), the VAWA lease term/addendum may be written to expire at the end of the rental assistance period.
(f)
Period of applicability.
For HOME-assisted rental housing, the requirements of this section shall apply to the owner of the housing for the duration of the affordability period. For HOME tenant-based rental assistance, the requirements of this section shall apply to the owner of the tenant's housing
for the period for which the rental assistance is provided.
(g)
Emergency Transfer Plan.
(1) The participating jurisdiction must develop and implement an emergency transfer plan and must make the determination of whether a tenant qualifies under the plan. The plan must meet the requirements in 24 CFR 5.2005(e), as supplemented by this section.
(2) For the purposes of § 5.2005(e)(7), the required policies must specify that for tenants who qualify for an emergency transfer and who wish to make an external emergency transfer when a safe unit is not immediately available, the participating jurisdiction must provide a list of properties in the jurisdiction that include HOME-assisted units. The list must include the following information for each property: The property's address, contact information, the unit sizes (number of bedrooms) for the HOME-assisted units, and, to the extent known, any tenant preferences or eligibility restrictions for the HOME-assisted units. In addition, the participating jurisdiction may:
(i) Establish a preference under the participating jurisdiction's HOME program for tenants who qualify for emergency transfers under 24 CFR 5.2005(e);
(ii) Provide HOME tenant-based rental assistance to tenants who qualify for emergency transfers under 24 CFR 5.2005(e); or
(iii) Coordinate with victim service providers and advocates to develop the emergency transfer plan, make referrals, and facilitate emergency transfers to safe and available units.
[81 FR 80803, Nov. 16, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.359 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Subpart I—Technical Assistance
§ 92.400
Coordinated Federal support for housing strategies.
(a)
General.
HUD will provide assistance in accordance with Subtitle C of the Act.
(b)
Notice of funding.
HUD will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of funding under this section as appropriate.

# Subpart J—Reallocations
§ 92.450
General.
(a) This subpart J sets out the conditions under which HUD reallocates HOME funds that have been allocated, reserved, or placed in a HOME Investment Trust Fund.
(b) A jurisdiction that is not a participating jurisdiction but is meeting the requirements of §§ 92.102, 92.103, and 92.104, (participation threshold, notice of intent, and submission of consolidated plan) is treated as a participating jurisdiction for purposes of receiving a reallocation under subpart J of this part.
§ 92.451
Reallocation of HOME funds from a jurisdiction that is not designated a participating jurisdiction or has its designation revoked.
(a)
Failure to be designated a participating jurisdiction.
HUD will reallocate, under this section, any HOME funds allocated to or reserved for a jurisdiction that is not a participating jurisdiction if:
(1) HUD determines that the jurisdiction has failed to:
(i) Meet the participation threshold amount in § 92.102;
(ii) Provide notice of its intent to become a participating jurisdiction in accordance with § 92.103; or
(iii) Submit its consolidated plan, in accordance with 24 CFR part 91; or
(2) HUD after providing for amendments and resubmissions in accordance with 24 CFR part 91 disapproves the jurisdiction's consolidated plan.
(b)
Designation revoked.
HUD will reallocate, under this section, any funds remaining in a jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund after HUD has revoked the jurisdiction's designation as a participating jurisdiction under § 92.107.
(c)
Manner of reallocation.
HUD will reallocate funds that are subject to reallocation under this section in the following manner:
(1) If the funds to be reallocated under this section are from a State, HUD will:
(i) Make the funds available by competition in accordance with criteria in § 92.453 among applications submitted by units of general local government
within the State and with preference being given to applications from units of general local government that are not participating jurisdictions, and
(ii) Reallocate the remainder by formula in accordance with § 92.454.
(2) If the funds to be reallocated are from a unit of general local government:
(i) Located in a State that is participating jurisdiction, HUD will reallocate the funds to that State. The State, in distributing these funds, must give preference to the provision of affordable housing within the unit of general local government; or
(ii) Located in a State that is not a participating jurisdiction, HUD will reallocate the funds by competition among units of general local government and community housing development organizations within the State, with priority going to applications for affordable housing within the unit of general local government; and reallocate the remainder by formula in accordance with § 92.454.
§ 92.452
Reallocation of community housing development organization set-aside.
HUD will reallocate, under this section, any HOME funds reduced or recaptured by HUD from a participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund under § 92.300(d). HUD will reallocate these funds by competition in accordance with criteria in § 92.453 to other participating jurisdictions for affordable housing developed, sponsored, or owned by community housing development organizations.
§ 92.453
Competitive reallocations.
(a) HUD will invite applications through
Federal Register
publication of a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA), in accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545) and the requirements of sec. 217(c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)), for HOME funds that become available for competitive reallocation under § 92.451 or § 92.452, or both. The NOFA will describe the application requirements and procedures, including the total funding available for the competition and any maximum amount of individual awards. The NOFA will also describe the selection criteria and any special factors to be evaluated in awarding points under the selection criteria.
(b) The NOFA will include the selection criteria at sec. 217(c) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)), with the following maximum number of points awarded for each category of criteria:
(1)
Commitment.
Up to 25 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(1) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(1));
(2)
Actions.
Up to 50 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(2)); and
(3)
Policies.
Up to 25 points for the criteria at sec. 217(c)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(c)(3)).
[62 FR 44840, Aug. 22, 1997]
§ 92.454
Reallocations by formula.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) HUD will reallocate under this section:
(1) Any HOME funds remaining available for reallocation after HUD has made competitive reallocations under § 92.451 and § 92.452;
(2) Any HOME funds available for reallocation because HUD reduced or recaptured funds from participating jurisdiction under § 92.500(d) for failure to commit the funds within the time specified;
(3) Any HOME funds withdrawn by HUD from a participating jurisdiction under 24 CFR 91.520(f) for failure to submit in a timely manner a performance report required by 24 CFR 91.520 that is satisfactory to HUD; and
(4) Any HOME funds remitted to HUD under § 92.503(b) when a jurisdiction ceases to be a participating jurisdiction.
(b) Any reallocation of funds from a State must be made only among all participating States, and any reallocation of funds from units of general local government must be made only among all participating units of general local government, except those participating jurisdictions that HUD
has removed from participating in reallocations under § 92.552.
(c) A local participating jurisdiction's share of a reallocation is calculated by multiplying the amount available for reallocation to units of general local government by a factor that is that ratio of the participating jurisdiction's formula allocation provided under § 92.50 to the total of the formula allocations provided for all local participating jurisdictions sharing in the reallocation. A State participating jurisdiction's share is comparably determined using the amount available for reallocation to States.
(d) HUD will make reallocations under this section quarterly, unless the amount available for such reallocation is insufficient to warrant making a reallocation. In any event, HUD will make a reallocation under this section at least once a year. The minimum amount of a reallocation is $1000.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.454 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Subpart K—Program Administration
§ 92.500
The HOME Investment Trust Fund.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
A HOME Investment Trust Fund consists of the accounts described in this section solely for investment in accordance with the provisions of this part. HUD will establish a HOME Investment Trust Fund United States Treasury account for each participating jurisdiction. Each participating jurisdiction may use either a separate local HOME Investment Trust Fund account or, a subsidiary account within its general fund (or other appropriate fund) as the local HOME Investment Trust Fund account.
(b)
Treasury Account.
The United States Treasury account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund includes funds allocated to the participating jurisdiction under § 92.50 (including for a local participating jurisdiction, any transfer of the State's allocation pursuant to § 92.102(b)(2)) and funds reallocated to the participating jurisdiction, either by formula or by competition, under subpart J of this part; and
(c)
Local account.
(1) The local account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund includes deposits of HOME funds disbursed from the Treasury account; the deposit of any State funds (other than HOME funds transferred pursuant to § 92.102(b)(2)) or local funds that enable the jurisdiction to meet the participating threshold amount in § 92.102, any program income (from both the allocated funds and matching contributions in accordance with the definition of program income), and any repayments or recaptured funds as required by § 92.503. The local account must be interest-bearing.
(2) The participating jurisdiction may establish a second local account of the HOME Investment Trust Funds if:
(i) The participating jurisdiction has its own affordable housing trust fund that the participating jurisdiction will use for matching contributions to the HOME program;
(ii) The statute or local ordinance requires repayments from its own trust fund to be made to the trust fund;
(iii) The participating jurisdiction establishes a separate account within its own trust fund for repayments of the matching contributions; and
(iv) The funds in the account are used solely for investment in eligible activities within the participating jurisdiction's boundaries in accordance with the provisions of this part, except as provided under § 92.201(a)(2).
(3) The funds in the local account cannot be used for the matching contribution and do not need to be matched.
(d)(1)
Reductions of Fiscal Year 2015 and subsequent fiscal year allocations.
HUD will reduce or recapture HOME funds in the HOME Investment Trust Fund, as follows:
(i) Any funds from a specific fiscal year allocation that are in the United States Treasury account that are not committed (including funds for community housing development organizations under § 92.300) within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement for the specific fiscal year allocation;
(ii) Any funds from a specific fiscal year allocation that were committed to a State recipient or subrecipient that are not committed to a specific local project within 36 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement for the specific fiscal year allocation;
(iii) Any funds from a specific fiscal year allocation that are in the United States Treasury account that are not expended (drawn down) by September 30 of the fifth year after the end of the period of availability of the fiscal year allocation for obligation by HUD. Due to end-of-year financial system closeouts that begin before this date and prevent electronic access to the payment system, requests to draw down the funds must be made at least 7 full business days before this date to ensure that the funds still can be drawn from the United States Treasury account through the computerized disbursement and information system; and
(iv) Any penalties assessed by HUD under § 92.552.
(2)(i)
Reductions of Fiscal Year 2014 and prior fiscal year allocations.
HUD will reduce or recapture HOME funds in the HOME Investment Trust Fund by the amount of:
(A) Any funds from Fiscal Year 2014 and prior fiscal year allocations in the United States Treasury account that are required to be reserved (
i.e.,
15 percent of the funds) by a participating jurisdiction, under § 92.300, and which are not committed to a community housing development organization project within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement;
(B) Any funds from Fiscal Year 2014 and prior fiscal year allocations in the United States Treasury account that are not committed within 24 months after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement;
(C) Any funds from Fiscal Year 2014 and prior fiscal year allocations in the United States Treasury account that are not expended within 5 years after the last day of the month in which HUD notifies the participating jurisdiction of HUD's execution of the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement; and
(D) Any penalties assessed by HUD under § 92.552.
(ii) For purposes of determining the amount by which the HOME Investment Trust Fund will be reduced or recaptured under paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section, HUD will consider the sum of commitments to CHDOs, commitments, or expenditures, as applicable, from all fiscal year allocations through the Fiscal Year 2014 allocation. This sum must be equal to or greater than the sum of all fiscal year allocations through the fiscal year allocation being examined (minus previous reductions to the HOME Investment Trust Fund), or in the case of commitments to CHDOs, 15 percent of those fiscal year allocations.
(iii) HUD will reduce or recapture HOME funds in the HOME Investment Trust Fund by the amount of all fiscal year allocations through the Fiscal Year 2014 allocation that are uncommitted by the commitment deadline for the Fiscal Year 2015 allocation.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28930, May 28, 1997; 78 FR 44679, July 24, 2013; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.500 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.501
HOME Investment Partnership Agreement.
Allocated and reallocated funds will be made available pursuant to a HOME Investment Partnership Agreement. The agreement ensures that HOME funds invested in affordable housing are repayable if the housing ceases to qualify as affordable housing before the period of affordability expires.
§ 92.502
Program disbursement and information system.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
The HOME Investment Trust Fund account established in the United States Treasury is managed through a computerized disbursement and information system established by HUD. The system disburses HOME
funds that are allocated or reallocated, and collects and reports information on the use of HOME funds in the United States Treasury account. (For purposes of reporting in the Integrated Disbursement and Information System, a HOME project is an activity.) The participating jurisdiction must report all program income in HUD's computerized disbursement and information system.
(b)
Project set-up.
After the participating jurisdiction executes the HOME Investment Partnership Agreement, submits the applicable banking and security documents, complies with the environmental requirements under 24 CFR part 58 for release of funds and commits funds to a specific local project, the participating jurisdiction may identify (set up) specific investments in the disbursement and information system. Investments that require the set-up of projects in the system are the acquisition, new construction, or rehabilitation of housing, and the provision of tenant-based rental assistance. The participating jurisdiction is required to enter complete project set-up information at the time of project set-up.
(c)
Disbursement of HOME funds.
(1) After complete project set-up information is entered into the disbursement and information system, HOME funds for the project may be drawn down from the United States Treasury account by the participating jurisdiction by electronic funds transfer. The funds will be deposited in the local account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund of the participating jurisdiction within 48 to 72 hours of the disbursement request. Any drawdown of HOME funds from the United States Treasury account is conditioned upon the provision of satisfactory information by the participating jurisdiction about the project or tenant-based rental assistance and compliance with other procedures, as specified by HUD.
(2) HOME funds drawn from the United States Treasury account must be expended for eligible costs within 15 days. Any interest earned within the 15-day period may be retained by the participating jurisdiction as HOME funds. Any funds that are drawn down and not expended for eligible costs within 15 days of the disbursement must be returned to HUD for deposit in the participating jurisdiction's United States Treasury account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund. Interest earned after 15 days belongs to the United States and must be remitted to the United States as provided in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9), except interest amounts up to $500 per year may be retained for administrative expenses.
(3) HOME funds in the local account of the HOME Investment Trust Fund must be disbursed before requests are made for HOME funds in the United States Treasury account. Beginning with the Fiscal Year 2015 allocation, the specific funds that are committed to a project will be disbursed for that project. If both funds in the local account and funds in the United States Treasury account are committed to a project, the funds in the local account must be disbursed before requests are made for HOME funds in the United States Treasury account for the project.
(4) A participating jurisdiction will be paid on an advance basis provided it complies with the requirements of this part.
(d)
Project completion.
(1) Complete project completion information must be entered into the disbursement and information system, or otherwise provided, within 120 days of the final project drawdown. If satisfactory project completion information is not provided, HUD may suspend further project set-ups or take other corrective actions.
(2) Additional HOME funds may be committed to a project up to one year after project completion, but the amount of HOME funds in the project may not exceed the maximum per-unit subsidy amount established under § 92.250.
(e)
Access by other participants.
Access to the disbursement and information system by other entities participating
in the HOME program (e.g., State recipients) will be governed by procedures established by HUD. Only participating jurisdictions and State recipients (if permitted by the State) may request disbursement.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44679, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.502 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.503
Program income, repayments, and recaptured funds.
(a)
Program income.
(1) Program income must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part. Program income must be deposited in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account unless the participating jurisdiction permits the State recipient or subrecipient to retain the program income for additional HOME projects pursuant to the written agreement required by § 92.504.
(2) If the jurisdiction is not a participating jurisdiction when the program income is received, the funds are not subject to the requirements of this part.
(3) Program income derived from consortium activities undertaken by or within a member unit of general local government which thereafter terminates its participation in the consortium continues to be program income of the consortium.
(b)
Repayments.
(1) Any HOME funds invested in housing that does not meet the affordability requirements for the period specified in § 92.252 or § 92.254, as applicable, must be repaid by the participating jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Any HOME funds invested in a project that is terminated before completion, either voluntarily or otherwise, must be repaid by the participating jurisdiction, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, except for repayments of project-specific community housing development organization loans that are waived, in accordance with §§ 92.301(a)(3) and (b)(3). In addition, any HOME funds used for costs that are not eligible under this part must be repaid by the participating jurisdiction, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) HUD will instruct the participating jurisdiction to either repay the funds to the HOME Investment Trust Fund Treasury account or the local account. If the jurisdiction is not a participating jurisdiction at the time the repayment is made, the funds must be remitted to HUD and reallocated, in accordance with § 92.454.
(c)
Recaptures.
HOME funds recaptured in accordance with § 92.254(a)(5)(ii) must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part. Recaptured funds must be deposited in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account unless the participating jurisdiction permits the State recipient, subrecipient, or community housing development organization to retain the recaptured funds for additional HOME projects pursuant to the written agreement required by § 92.504. If the jurisdiction is not a participating jurisdiction when the recaptured funds are received, the funds must be remitted to HUD and reallocated in accordance with § 92.454.
(d)
Commitment of funds in the local account.
Beginning with the Fiscal Year 2017 action plan, as provided in 24 CFR 91.220(l)(2) and 91.320(k)(2), program income, repayments, and recaptured funds in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part, and the amount of program income, repayments, and recaptured funds in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account at the beginning of the program year must be committed before HOME funds in the HOME Investment Trust Fund United States Treasury account, except for the HOME funds in the United States Treasury account that are required to be reserved (
i.e.,
15 percent of the funds), under § 92.300(a), for investment only in housing to be owned, developed, or sponsored by community housing development organizations. The deadline for committing program income, repayments, and recaptured funds received during a program year is the date of the participating jurisdiction's
commitment deadline for the subsequent year's grant allocation.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44680, July 24, 2013; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016]
§ 92.504
Participating jurisdiction responsibilities; written agreements; on-site inspection.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
Responsibilities.
The participating jurisdiction is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of its HOME program, ensuring that HOME funds are used in accordance with all program requirements and written agreements, and taking appropriate action when performance problems arise. The use of State recipients, subrecipients, or contractors does not relieve the participating jurisdiction of this responsibility. The performance and compliance of each contractor, State recipient, and subrecipient must be reviewed at least annually. The participating jurisdiction must have and follow written policies, procedures, and systems, including a system for assessing risk of activities and projects and a system for monitoring entities consistent with this section, to ensure that the requirements of this part are met.
(b)
Executing a written agreement.
Before disbursing any HOME funds to any entity, the participating jurisdiction must enter into a written agreement with that entity. Before disbursing any HOME funds to any entity, a State recipient, subrecipient, or contractor which is administering all or a part of the HOME program on behalf of the participating jurisdiction, must also enter into a written agreement with that entity. The written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
(c)
Provisions in written agreements.
The contents of the agreement may vary depending upon the role the entity is asked to assume or the type of project undertaken. This section details basic requirements by role and the minimum provisions that must be included in a written agreement.
(1)
State recipient.
The provisions in the written agreement between the State and a State recipient will depend on the program functions that the State specifies the State recipient will carry out in accordance with § 92.201(b). In accordance with § 92.201, the written agreement must either require the State recipient to comply with the requirements established by the State or require the State recipient to establish its own requirements to comply with this part, including requirements for income determinations and underwriting subsidy layering guidelines, rehabilitation standards, refinancing guidelines, homebuyer program policies, and affordability.
(i)
Use of the HOME funds.
The agreement must describe the amount and use of the HOME funds to administer one or more programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance, including the type and number of housing projects to be funded (e.g. the number of single- family homeowner loans to be made or number of homebuyers to receive downpayment assistance), tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks (including a schedule for committing funds to projects that meet the deadlines established by this part), a budget for each program, and any requirement for matching contributions. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the State to effectively monitor performance under the agreement.
(ii)
Affordability.
The agreement must require housing assisted with HOME funds to meet the affordability requirements of § 92.252 or § 92.254, as applicable, and must require repayment of the funds if the housing does not meet the affordability requirements for the specified time period. The agreement must state if repayment of HOME funds or recaptured HOME funds must be remitted to the State or retained by the State recipient for additional eligible activities.
(iii)
Program income.
The agreement must state if program income is to be remitted to the State or to be retained by the State recipient for additional eligible activities.
(iv)
Uniform administrative requirements.
The agreement must require the State recipient to comply with applicable uniform administrative requirements, as described in § 92.505.
(v)
Project requirement.
The agreement must require compliance with project requirements in subpart F of this part, as applicable in accordance with the type of project assisted.
(vi)
Other program requirements.
The agreement must require the State recipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart H of this part, except that the State recipient does not assume the State's responsibilities for release of funds under § 92.352 and the intergovernmental review process in § 92.357 does not apply to the State recipient. If HOME funds are provided for development of rental housing or provision of tenant-based rental assistance, the agreement must set forth all obligations the State imposes on the State recipient in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including notice obligations and any obligations with respect to the emergency transfer plan (including whether the State recipient must develop its own plan or follow the State's plan).
(vii)
Affirmative marketing.
The agreement must specify the State recipient's affirmative marketing responsibilities in accordance with § 92.351.
(viii)
Requests for disbursement of funds.
The agreement must specify that the State recipient may not request disbursement of HOME funds under this agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. Program income must be disbursed before the State recipient requests funds from the State.
(ix)
Records and reports.
The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the State in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(x)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of affordable housing requirements by the State or the intended beneficiaries, if the State recipient will be the owner at project completion of the affordable housing. The means of enforcement may include liens on real property, deed restrictions, or covenants running with the land. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be enforced by deed restriction. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the HOME requirements. The agreement must specify that, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338, suspension or termination may occur if the State recipient materially fails to comply with any term of the agreement. The State may permit the agreement to be terminated in whole or in part in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339.
(xi)
Written agreement.
Before the State recipient provides funds to for-profit owners or developers, nonprofit owners or developers or sponsors, subrecipients, homeowners, homebuyers, tenants (or landlords) receiving tenant-based rental assistance, or contractors who are providing services to the State recipient, the State recipient must have a written agreement with such entities that meets the requirements of this section.
(xii)
Duration of the agreement.
The duration of the agreement will depend on which functions the State recipient performs (e.g., whether the State recipient or the State has responsibility for monitoring rental projects for the period of affordability) and which activities are funded under the agreement.
(xiii)
Fees.
The agreement must prohibit the State recipient and its subrecipients and community housing development organizations from charging servicing, origination, processing, inspection, or other fees for the costs of administering a HOME program, except as permitted by § 92.214(b)(1).
(2)
Subrecipient.
A subrecipient is a public agency or nonprofit organization selected by the participating jurisdiction to administer all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs to produce affordable housing, provide downpayment assistance, or provide tenant-based rental assistance. The agreement must set forth and require the subrecipient to follow the participating jurisdiction's requirements, including requirements for income determinations, underwriting and subsidy layering guidelines, rehabilitation standards, refinancing guidelines,
homebuyer program policies, and affordability requirements. The agreement between the participating jurisdiction and the subrecipient must include:
(i)
Use of the HOME funds.
The agreement must describe the amount and use of the HOME funds for one or more programs, including the type and number of housing projects to be funded (e.g., the number of single-family homeowners loans to be made or the number of homebuyers to receive downpayment assistance), tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks (including a schedule for committing funds to projects in accordance with deadlines established by this part), a budget, any requirement for matching contributions and the period of the agreement. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the participating jurisdiction to effectively monitor performance under the agreement.
(ii)
Program income.
The agreement must state if program income is to be remitted to the participating jurisdiction or to be retained by the subrecipient for additional eligible activities.
(iii)
Uniform administrative requirements.
The agreement must require the subrecipient to comply with applicable uniform administrative requirements, as described in § 92.505.
(iv)
Other program requirements.
The agreement must require the subrecipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart H of this part, except that the subrecipient does not assume the participating jurisdiction's responsibilities for environmental review under § 92.352 and the intergovernmental review process in § 92.357 does not apply. The agreement must set forth the requirements the subrecipient must follow to enable the participating jurisdiction to carry environmental review responsibilities before HOME funds are committed to a project. If HOME funds are being provided to develop rental housing or provide tenant-based rental assistance, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the subrecipient in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including notice obligations and obligations under the emergency transfer plan.
(v)
Affirmative marketing.
The agreement must specify the subrecipient's affirmative marketing responsibilities in accordance with § 92.351.
(vi)
Requests for disbursement of funds.
The agreement must specify that the subrecipient may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. Program income must be disbursed before the subrecipient requests funds from the participating jurisdiction.
(vii)
Reversion of assets.
The agreement must specify that upon expiration of the agreement, the subrecipient must transfer to the participating jurisdiction any HOME funds on hand at the time of expiration and any accounts receivable attributable to the use of HOME funds.
(viii)
Records and reports.
The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the participating jurisdiction in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(ix)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement. The agreement must specify that, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338, suspension or termination may occur if the subrecipient materially fails to comply with any term of the agreement. The participating jurisdiction may permit the agreement to be terminated in whole or in part in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339.
(x)
Written agreement.
Before the subrecipient provides HOME funds to for-profit owners or developers, nonprofit owners or developers or sponsors, subrecipients, homeowners, homebuyers, tenants (or landlords) receiving tenant-based rental assistance, or contractors, the subrecipient must have a written agreement that meets the requirements of this section. The agreement must state if repayment of HOME funds or recaptured HOME funds must
be remitted to the participating jurisdiction or retained by the subrecipient for additional eligible activities.
(xi)
Fees.
The agreement must prohibit the subrecipient and any community housing development organizations from charging servicing, origination, or other fees for the costs of administering the HOME program, except as permitted by § 92.214(b)(1).
(3)
For-profit or nonprofit housing owner, sponsor, or developer (other than single-family owner-occupant).
The participating jurisdiction may preliminarily award HOME funds for a proposed project, contingent on conditions such as obtaining other financing for the project. This preliminary award is not a commitment to a project. The written agreement committing the HOME funds to the project must meet the requirements of “commit to a specific local project” in the definition of “commitment” in § 92.2 and contain the following:
(i)
Use of the HOME funds.
The agreement between the participating jurisdiction and a for-profit or nonprofit housing owner, sponsor, or developer must describe the address of the project or the legal description of the property if a street address has not been assigned to the property, the use of the HOME funds and other funds for the project, including the tasks to be performed for the project, a schedule for completing the tasks and the project, and a complete budget. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the participating jurisdiction to effectively monitor performance under the agreement to achieve project completion and compliance with the HOME requirements.
(ii)
Affordability.
The agreement must require housing assisted with HOME funds to meet the affordability requirements of § 92.252 or § 92.254, as applicable, and must require repayment of the funds if the housing does not meet the affordability requirements for the specified time period. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the participating jurisdiction has the right to require specific performance.
(A) If the owner or developer is undertaking rental projects, the agreement must establish the initial rents, the procedures for rent increases pursuant to § 92.252(f)(2), the number of HOME units, the size of the HOME units, and the designation of the HOME units as fixed or floating, and include the requirement that the owner or developer provide the address (e.g., street address and apartment number) of each HOME unit no later than the time of initial occupancy.
(B) If the owner or developer is undertaking a homeownership project for sale to homebuyers in accordance with § 92.254(a), the agreement must set forth the resale or recapture requirements that must be imposed on the housing, the sales price or the basis upon which the sales price will be determined, and the disposition of the sales proceeds. Recaptured funds must be returned to the participating jurisdiction.
(iii)
Project requirements.
The agreement must require compliance with project requirements in subpart F of this part, as applicable in accordance with the type of project assisted. The agreement may permit the owner to limit eligibility or give a preference to a particular segment of the population in accordance with § 92.253(d).
(iv)
Property standards.
The agreement must require the housing to meet the property standards in § 92.251, upon project completion. The agreement must also require owners of rental housing assisted with HOME funds to maintain the housing compliance with § 92.251 for the duration of the affordability period.
(v)
Other program requirements.
The agreement must require the owner, developer or sponsor to carry out each project in compliance with the following requirements of subpart H of this part:
(A) The agreement must specify the owner or developer's affirmative marketing responsibilities as enumerated by the participating jurisdiction in accordance with § 92.351.
(B) The federal requirements and nondiscrimination established in § 92.350.
(C) Any displacement, relocation, and acquisition requirements imposed by
the participating jurisdiction consistent with § 92.353.
(D) The labor requirements in § 92.354.
(E) The conflict of interest provisions prescribed in § 92.356(f).
(F) If HOME funds are being provided to develop rental housing, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the owner in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including the owner's notice obligations and owner obligations under the emergency transfer plan.
(vi)
Records and reports.
The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the participating jurisdiction in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The owner of rental housing must annually provide the participating jurisdiction with information on rents and occupancy of HOME-assisted units to demonstrate compliance with § 92.252. If the rental housing project has floating HOME units, the owner must provide the participating jurisdiction with information regarding unit substitution and filling vacancies so that the project remains in compliance with HOME rental occupancy requirements. The agreement must specify the reporting requirements (including copies of financial statements) to enable the participating jurisdiction to determine the financial condition (and continued financial viability) of the rental project.
(vii)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of the affordable housing requirements by the participating jurisdiction and the intended beneficiaries. This means of enforcement may include liens on real property, deed restrictions, or covenants running with the land. The affordability requirements in § 92.252 must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the participating jurisdiction has the right to require specific performance. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement.
(viii)
Requests for disbursement of funds.
The agreement must specify that the developer may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed.
(ix)
Duration of the agreement.
The agreement must specify the duration of the agreement. If the housing assisted under this agreement is rental housing, the agreement must be in effect through the affordability period required by the participating jurisdiction under § 92.252. If the housing assisted under this agreement is homeownership housing, the agreement must be in effect at least until completion of the project and ownership by the low-income family.
(x)
Community housing development organization provisions.
If the nonprofit owner or developer is a community housing development organization and is using set-aside funds under § 92.300, the agreement must include the appropriate provisions under §§ 92.300, 92.301, and 92.303. If the community development organization is receiving HOME funds as a developer of homeownership housing, the agreement must specify if the organization may retain proceeds from the sale of the housing and whether the proceeds are to be used for HOME-eligible or other housing activities to benefit low-income families. Recaptured funds are subject to the requirements of § 92.503. If the community housing development organization is receiving assistance for operating expenses, see paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(xi)
Fees.
The agreement must prohibit project owners from charging fees that are not customarily charged in rental housing such as laundry room access fees, and other fees. However, rental project owners may charge reasonable application fees to prospective tenants may charge parking fees to tenants only if such fees are customary for rental housing projects in the neighborhood; and may charge fees for services such as bus transportation or meals, as long as such services are voluntary. The agreement must also prohibit the developer that is undertaking
a homeownership project from charging servicing, origination, processing, inspection, or other fees for the costs of providing homeownership assistance.
(4)
Contractor.
The participating jurisdiction selects a contractor through applicable procurement procedures and requirements. The contractor provides goods or services in accordance with a written agreement (the contract). For contractors who are administering all or some of the participating jurisdiction's HOME programs or specific services for one or more programs, the contract must include at a minimum the following provisions:
(i)
Use of the HOME funds.
The agreement must describe the use of the HOME funds, including the tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks, a budget, and the length of the agreement.
(ii)
Program requirements.
The agreement must provide that the contractor is subject to the requirements in part 92 that are applicable to the participating jurisdiction, except §§ 92.505 and 92.506 do not apply, and the contractor cannot assume the participating jurisdiction responsibilities for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action under § 92.352. Where the contractor is administering only a portion of the program, the agreement must list the requirements applicable to the activities the contractor is administering. If applicable to the work under the contract, the agreement must set forth all obligations the participating jurisdiction imposes on the contractor in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 92.359, including any notice obligations and any obligations under the emergency transfer plan.
(iii)
Duration of agreement.
The agreement must specify the duration of the contract. Generally, the duration of a contract should not exceed two years.
(5)
Homebuyer, homeowner or tenant receiving tenant-based rental or security deposit assistance.
When a participating jurisdiction provides assistance to a homebuyer, homeowner or tenant the written agreement may take many forms depending upon the nature of assistance. As appropriate, it must include as a minimum:
(i) For homebuyers, the agreement must conform to the requirements in § 92.254(a), the value of the property, principal residence, lease-purchase, if applicable, and the resale or recapture provisions. The agreement must specify the amount of HOME funds, the form of assistance, e.g., grant, amortizing loan, deferred payment loan, the use of the funds (e.g., down-payment, closing costs, rehabilitation) and the time by which the housing must be acquired.
(ii) For homeowners, the agreement must conform to the requirements in § 92.254(b) and specify the amount and form of HOME assistance, rehabilitation work to be undertaken, date for completion, and property standards to be met.
(iii) For tenants, the rental assistance contract or the security deposit contract must conform to §§ 92.209 and 92.253.
(6)
Community housing development organization receiving assistance for operating expenses.
The agreement must describe the use of HOME funds for operating expenses; e.g., salaries, wages, and other employee compensation and benefits; employee education, training, and travel; rent; utilities; communication costs; taxes; insurance; equipment; and materials and supplies. If the community housing development organization is not also receiving funds for a housing project to be developed, sponsored, or owned by the community housing development organization, the agreement must provide that the community housing development organization is expected to receive funds for a project within 24 months of the date of receiving the funds for operating expenses, and must specify the terms and conditions upon which this expectation is based and the consequences of failure to receive funding for a project.
(7)
Community housing development organization receiving assistance for project-specific technical assistance and site control loans or project-specific seed money loans.
The agreement must identify the specific site or sites and describe the amount and use of the HOME funds (in accordance with § 92.301), including a budget for work, a period of performance, and a schedule for completion. The agreement must
also set forth the basis upon which the participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loans, consistent with § 92.301, if applicable.
(8)
Technical assistance provider to develop the capacity of community housing development organizations in the jurisdiction.
The agreement must identify the specific nonprofit organization(s) to receive capacity building assistance. The agreement must describe the amount and use (scope of work) of the HOME funds, including a budget, a period of performance, and a schedule for completion.
(d)
On-site inspections and financial oversight.
(1)
Inspections.
The participating jurisdiction must inspect each project at project completion and during the period of affordability to determine that the project meets the property standards of § 92.251.
(i)
Completion inspections.
Before completing the project in the disbursement and information system established by HUD, the participating jurisdiction must perform an on-site inspection of HOME-assisted housing to determine that all contracted work has been completed and that the project complies with the property standards of § 92.251.
(ii)
Ongoing periodic inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing.
During the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction must perform on-site inspections of HOME-assisted rental housing to determine compliance with the property standards of § 92.251 and to verify the information submitted by the owners in accordance with the requirements of § 92.252. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the participating jurisdiction establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 92.251.
(A) The on-site inspections must occur within 12 months after project completion and at least once every 3 years thereafter during the period of affordability.
(B) If there are observed deficiencies for any of the inspectable items in the property standards established by the participating jurisdiction, in accordance with the inspection requirements of § 92.251, a follow-up on-site inspection to verify that deficiencies are corrected must occur within 12 months. The participating jurisdiction may establish a list of non-hazardous deficiencies for which correction can be verified by third party documentation (e.g., paid invoice for work order) rather than re-inspection. Health and safety deficiencies must be corrected immediately, in accordance with § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must adopt a more frequent inspection schedule for properties that have been found to have health and safety deficiencies.
(C) The property owner must annually certify to the participating jurisdiction that each building and all HOME- assisted units in the project are suitable for occupancy, taking into account State and local health, safety, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and requirements, and the ongoing property standards established by the participating jurisdiction to meet the requirements of § 92.251.
(D) Inspections must be based on a statistically valid sample of units appropriate for the size of the HOME-assisted project, as set forth by HUD through a document published in the
Federal Register.
For projects with one-to-four HOME-assisted units, a participating jurisdiction must inspect all of the HOME-assisted units and all inspectable areas for each building with HOME-assisted units.
(iii)
Annual inspections.
Tenant-based rental assistance (TBRA). All housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME tenant-based rental assistance must meet the property standards of § 92.251. The participating jurisdiction must perform annual on-site inspections of rental housing occupied by tenants receiving HOME-assisted TBRA to determine compliance with these standards.
(2)
Financial oversight.
During the period of affordability, the participating jurisdiction must examine at least annually the financial condition of HOME-assisted rental projects with 10 units or more to determine the continued financial viability of the housing
and must take actions to correct problems, to the extent feasible.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999; 67 FR 61757, Oct. 1, 2002; 68 FR 56404, Sept. 30, 2003; 78 FR 44680, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80804, Nov. 16, 2016; 81 FR 86952, Dec. 2, 2016; 88 FR 30497, May 11, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 888, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.504 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.505
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 892, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply to participating jurisdictions, State recipients, and subrecipients receiving HOME funds, except for the following provisions: §§ 200.306, 200.307, 200.308 (not applicable to participating jurisdictions), 200.311 (except as provided in § 92.257), 200.312, 200.329, 200.333, and 200.334. The provisions of 2 CFR 200.305 apply as modified by § 92.502(c). If there is a conflict between definitions in 2 CFR part 200 and 24 CFR part 92, the definitions in 24 CFR part 92 govern.
[80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 892, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.505 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.506
Audit.
Audits of the participating jurisdiction, State recipients, and subrecipients must be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[67 FR 61757, Oct. 1, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 92.507
Closeout.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 892, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
HOME funds will be closed out in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.
[80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 892, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.507 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.508
Recordkeeping.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
Each participating jurisdiction must establish and maintain sufficient records to enable HUD to determine whether the participating jurisdiction has met the requirements of this part. At a minimum, the following records are needed:
(1)
Records concerning designation as a participating jurisdiction.
(i) For a consortium, the consortium agreement among the participating member units of general local government as required by § 92.101.
(ii) For a unit of general local government receiving a formula allocation of less than $750,000 (or less than $500,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion for this part), records demonstrating that funds have been made available (either by the State or the unit of general local government, or both) equal to or greater than the difference between its formula allocation and $750,000 (or $500,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion) as required by § 92.102(b).
(2)
Program records.
(i) Records of the efforts to maximize participation by the private sector as required by § 92.200.
(ii) The forms of HOME assistance used in the program, including any forms of investment described in the Consolidated Plan under 24 CFR part 91 that are not identified in § 92.205(b), and which are specifically approved by HUD.
(iii) The underwriting and subsidy layering guidelines adopted in accordance with § 92.250 that support the participating jurisdiction's Consolidated Plan certification.
(iv) If existing debt is refinanced for multi-family rehabilitation projects, the refinancing guidelines established in accordance with § 92.206(b), described in the Consolidated Plan.
(v) If HOME funds are used for tenant-based rental assistance, records supporting the participating jurisdiction's Consolidated Plan certification in accordance with § 92.209(b), including documentation of the local market conditions that led to the choice of this option; written selection policies and criteria; supporting documentation for preferences for specific categories of individuals with disabilities; and records supporting the rent standard and minimum tenant contribution established in accordance with § 92.209(h).
(vi) If HOME funds are used for tenant-based rental assistance or rental housing, records evidencing that not less than 90 percent of the families receiving such rental assistance meet the income requirements of § 92.216.
(vii) If HOME funds are used for homeownership housing, the procedures used for establishing 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area in accordance with § 92.254(a)(2), in the Consolidated Plan.
(viii) If HOME funds are used for acquisition of housing for homeownership, the resale or recapture guidelines established in accordance with § 92.254(a)(5), as set forth in the Consolidated Plan.
(ix) Records demonstrating compliance with the matching requirements of § 92.218 through § 92.222 including a running log and project records documenting the type and amount of match contributions by project.
(x) Records documenting compliance with the 24 month commitment deadline of § 92.500(d).
(xi) Records demonstrating compliance with the fifteen percent CHDO set-aside requirement of § 92.300(a).
(xii) Records documenting compliance with the ten percent limitation on administrative and planning costs in accordance with § 92.207.
(3)
Project records.
(i) A full description of each project assisted with HOME funds, including the location (address of each unit), form of HOME assistance, and the units or tenants assisted with HOME funds.
(ii) The source and application of funds for each project, including supporting documentation in accordance with 2 CFR 200.302; and records to document the eligibility and permissibility of the project costs, including the documentation of the actual HOME-eligible development costs of each HOME-assisted unit (through allocation of costs, if permissible under § 92.205(d)) where HOME funds are used to assist less than all of the units in a multi-unit project.
(iii) Records demonstrating that each rental housing or homeownership project meets the minimum per-unit subsidy amount of § 92.205(c), the maximum per-unit subsidy amount of § 92.250(a), and the subsidy layering and underwriting evaluation adopted in accordance with § 92.250(b).
(iv) Records (e.g., inspection reports) demonstrating that each project meets the property standards of § 92.251 at project completion. In addition, during the period of affordability, records for rental projects demonstrating compliance with the property standards and financial reviews and actions pursuant to § 92.504(d).
(v) Records demonstrating that each family is income eligible in accordance with § 92.203.
(vi) Records demonstrating that each tenant-based rental assistance project meets the written tenant selection policies and criteria of § 92.209(c), including any targeting requirements, the rent reasonableness requirements of § 92.209(f), the maximum subsidy provisions of § 92.209(h), property inspection reports, and calculation of the HOME subsidy.
(vii) Records demonstrating that each rental housing project meets the affordability and income targeting requirements of § 92.252 for the required period. Records must be kept for each family assisted.
(viii) Records demonstrating that each multifamily rental housing project involving rehabilitation with refinancing complies with the refinancing guidelines established in accordance with § 92.206(b).
(ix) Records demonstrating that each lease for a tenant receiving tenant-based rental assistance and for an assisted rental housing unit complies with the tenant and participant protections of § 92.253. Records must be kept for each family.
(x) Records demonstrating that the purchase price or estimated value after rehabilitation for each homeownership housing project does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area in accordance with § 92.254(a)(2). The records must demonstrate how the estimated value was determined.
(xi) Records demonstrating that each homeownership project meets the affordability requirements of § 92.254 for the required period.
(xii) Records demonstrating that any pre-award costs charged to the HOME
allocation meet the requirements of § 92.212.
(xiii) Records demonstrating that a site and neighborhood standards review was conducted for each project which includes new construction of rental housing assisted under this part to determine that the site meets the requirements of 24 CFR 983.55(e)(2) and (3), in accordance with § 92.202.
(xiv) Records (written agreements) demonstrating compliance with the written agreements requirements in § 92.504.
(4)
Community Housing Development Organizations (CHDOs) Records.
(i) Written agreements committing HOME funds to CHDO projects in accordance with § 92.300(a).
(ii) Records setting forth the efforts made to identify and encourage CHDOs, as required by § 92.300(b).
(iii) The name and qualifications of each CHDO and amount of HOME CHDO set-aside funds committed.
(iv) Records demonstrating that each CHDO complies with the written agreements required by § 92.504.
(v) Records concerning the use of CHDO setaside funds, including funds used to develop CHDO capacity pursuant to § 92.300(b).
(vi) Records concerning the use of funds for CHDO operating expenses and demonstrating compliance with the requirements of §§ 92.208, 92.300(e) and 92.300(f).
(vii) Records concerning the tenant participation plan required by § 92.303.
(viii) Records concerning project-specific assistance to CHDOs pursuant to § 92.301, including the impediments to repayment, if repayment is waived.
(5)
Financial records.
(i) Records, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.302, identifying the source and application of funds for each fiscal year, including the formula allocation, any reallocation (identified by federal fiscal year appropriation), and any State or local funds provided under § 92.102(b).
(ii) Records concerning the HOME Investment Trust Fund Treasury account and local account required to be established and maintained by § 92.500, including deposits, disbursements, balances, supporting documentation and any other information required by the program disbursement and information system established by HUD.
(iii) Records identifying the source and application of program income, repayments and recaptured funds.
(iv) Records demonstrating adequate budget control and other records required by 2 CFR 200.302, including evidence of periodic account reconciliations.
(6)
Program administration records.
(i) Written policies, procedures, and systems, including a system for assessing risk of activities and projects and a system for monitoring entities consistent with this section, to ensure that the requirements of this part are met.
(ii) Records demonstrating compliance with the written agreements required by § 92.504.
(iii) Records demonstrating compliance with the applicable uniform administrative requirements required by § 92.505.
(iv) Records documenting required inspections, monitoring reviews and audits, and the resolution of any findings or concerns.
(7)
Records concerning other Federal requirements
—(i)
Equal opportunity and fair housing records.
(A) Data on the extent to which each racial and ethnic group and single-headed households (by gender of household head) have applied for, participated in, or benefited from, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with HOME funds.
(B) Documentation of the actions the participating jurisdiction has taken to affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151, 5.152, 91.225, 91.325, and 91.425 of this title.
(ii)
Affirmative marketing and MBE/WBE records.
(A) Records demonstrating compliance with the affirmative marketing procedures and requirements of § 92.351.
(B) Documentation and data on the steps taken to implement the jurisdiction's outreach programs to minority-owned (MBE) and female-owned (WBE) businesses including data indicating the racial/ethnic or gender character of each business entity receiving a contract or subcontract of $25,000 or more paid, or to be paid, with HOME funds;
the amount of the contract or subcontract, and documentation of participating jurisdiction's affirmative steps to assure that minority business and women's business enterprises have an equal opportunity to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction, and services.
(iii) Records demonstrating compliance with the environmental review requirements of § 92.352 and 24 CFR part 58, including flood insurance requirements.
(iv) Records demonstrating compliance with the requirements of § 92.353 regarding displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition, including project occupancy lists identifying the name and address of all persons occupying the real property on the date described in § 92.353(c)(2)(i)(A), moving into the property on or after the date described in § 92.353(c)(2)(i)(A), and occupying the property upon completion of the project.
(v) Records demonstrating compliance with the labor requirements of § 92.354, including contract provisions and payroll records.
(vi) Records demonstrating compliance with the lead-based paint requirements of part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, M and R of this title.
(vii) Records supporting exceptions to the conflict of interest prohibition pursuant to § 92.356.
(viii) Records demonstrating compliance with debarment and suspension requirements in 2 CFR part 2424.
(ix) Records concerning intergovernmental review, as required by § 92.357.
(x) Records of emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 92.359 pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of those requests.
(xi) Documentation of actions undertaken to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 75 which implements section 3 of the Housing Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
(b)
States with State Recipients.
A State that distributes HOME funds to State recipients must require State recipients to keep the records required by paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section, and such other records as the State determines to be necessary to enable the State to carry out its responsibilities under this part. The State need not duplicate the records kept by the State recipients. The State must keep records concerning its review of State recipients required under § 92.201(b)(3).
(c)
Period of record retention.
All records pertaining to each fiscal year of HOME funds must be retained for the most recent five year period, except as provided below.
(1) For rental housing projects, records may be retained for five years after the project completion date; except that records of individual tenant income verifications, project rents and project inspections must be retained for the most recent five year period, until five years after the affordability period terminates.
(2) For homeownership housing projects, records may be retained for five years after the project completion date, except for documents imposing recapture/resale restrictions which must be retained for five years after the affordability period terminates.
(3) For tenant-based rental assistance projects, records must be retained for five years after the period of rental assistance terminates.
(4) Written agreements must be retained for five years after the agreement terminates.
(5) Records covering displacements and acquisition must be retained for five years after the date by which all persons displaced from the property and all persons whose property is acquired for the project have received the final payment to which they are entitled in accordance with § 92.353.
(6) If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, monitoring, inspection or other action has been started before the expiration of the required record retention period records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the required period, whichever is later.
(d)
Access to records.
(1) The participating jurisdiction must provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable access to records, consistent with applicable
state and local laws regarding privacy and obligations of confidentiality.
(2) HUD and the Comptroller General of the United States, any of their representatives, have the right of access to any pertinent books, documents, papers or other records of the participating jurisdiction, state recipients, and subrecipients, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 50224, Sept. 15, 1999; 67 FR 61757, Oct. 1, 2002; 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007; 78 FR 44682, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 42366, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80805, Nov. 16, 2016; 85 FR 47910, Aug. 7, 2020; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020; 85 FR 82137, Dec. 17, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 34943, July 1, 2021; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 32767, June 23, 2021; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 90 FR 11024, Mar. 3, 2025, § 92.508 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(7)(i)(B), effective Apr. 2, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 92.508
Recordkeeping.
(a) * * *
(7) * * *
(i) * * *
(B) Documentation that the participating jurisdiction submitted a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing, consistent with §§ 5.150 and 5.151 of this title.

# Effective Date Notes:
2. At 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.508 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.509
Performance reports.
(a)
Management reports.
Each participating jurisdiction must submit management reports on its HOME Investment Partnerships Program in such format and at such time as HUD may prescribe.
(b)
Annual performance report.
For annual performance report requirements, see 24 CFR part 91.

# Subpart L—Performance Reviews and Sanctions
§ 92.550
Performance reviews.
(a)
General.
HUD will review the performance of each participating jurisdiction in carrying out its responsibilities under this part whenever determined necessary by HUD, but at least annually. In conducting performance reviews, HUD will rely primarily on information obtained from the participating jurisdiction's and, as appropriate, the State recipient's records and reports, findings from on-site monitoring, audit reports, and information generated from the disbursement and information system established by HUD. Where applicable, HUD may also consider relevant information pertaining to a participating jurisdiction's or State recipient's performance gained from other sources, including citizen comments, complaint determinations, and litigation. Reviews to determine compliance with specific requirements of this part will be conducted as necessary, with or without prior notice to the participating jurisdiction or State recipient. Comprehensive performance reviews under the standards in paragraph (b) of this section will be conducted after prior notice to the participating jurisdiction.
(b)
Standards for comprehensive performance review.
A participating jurisdiction's performance will be comprehensively reviewed periodically, as prescribed by HUD, to determine:
(1) For local participating jurisdictions and State participating jurisdictions administering their own HOME programs, whether the participating jurisdiction has committed the HOME funds in the United States Treasury account as required by § 92.500 and expended the funds in the United States Treasury account as required by § 92.500, and has met the requirements of this part, particularly eligible activities, income targeting, affordability, and matching requirements; or
(2) For State participating jurisdictions distributing HOME funds to State recipients, whether the State has met the matching contribution and other requirements of this part; has distributed the funds in accordance with the requirements of this part; and has made such reviews and audits of its State recipients as may be appropriate to determine whether they have satisfied the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 92.551
Corrective and remedial actions.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
HUD will use the procedures in this section in conducting the performance review as provided in § 92.550 and in taking corrective and remedial actions.
(b)
Performance review.
(1) If HUD determines preliminarily that the participating jurisdiction has not met a requirement of this part, the participating jurisdiction will be given notice of this determination and an opportunity to demonstrate, within the time prescribed by HUD (not to exceed 30 days) and on the basis of substantial facts and data, that it has done so.
(2) If the participating jurisdiction fails to demonstrate to HUD's satisfaction that it has met the requirement, HUD will take corrective or remedial action in accordance with this section or § 92.552.
(c)
Corrective and remedial actions.
Corrective or remedial actions for a performance deficiency (failure to meet a provision of this part) will be designed to prevent a continuation of the deficiency; mitigate, to the extent possible, its adverse effects or consequences; and prevent its recurrence.
(1) HUD may instruct the participating jurisdiction to submit and comply with proposals for action to correct, mitigate and prevent a performance deficiency, including:
(i) Preparing and following a schedule of actions for carrying out the affected activities, consisting of schedules, timetables, and milestones necessary to implement the affected activities;
(ii) Establishing and following a management plan that assigns responsibilities for carrying out the remedial actions;
(iii) Canceling or revising activities likely to be affected by the performance deficiency, before expending HOME funds for the activities;
(iv) Reprogramming HOME funds that have not yet been expended from affected activities to other eligible activities;
(v) Reimbursing its HOME Investment Trust Fund in any amount not used in accordance with the requirements of this part;
(vi) Suspending disbursement of HOME funds for affected activities; and
(vii) Establishing procedures to ensure compliance with HOME requirements;
(viii) Making matching contributions as draws are made from the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund United States Treasury Account and establishing a remedial plan to make up the matching contributions deficit; and
(ix) If the participating jurisdiction is a metropolitan city, forming a consortium with the urban county if the urban county is willing to carry out the HOME program in the metropolitan city.
(2) HUD may also change the method of payment from an advance to reimbursement basis and may require supporting documentation to be submitted for HUD review for each payment request before payment is made; determine the participating jurisdiction to be high risk and impose special conditions or restrictions on the next year's allocation in accordance with 2 CFR 200.207; and take other remedies that may be legally available, including remedies under 2 CFR 200.338.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 44683, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.551 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 92.552
Notice and opportunity for hearing; sanctions.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
(a) If HUD finds after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing that a participating jurisdiction has failed to comply with any provision of this part and until HUD is satisfied that there is no longer any such failure to comply:
(1) HUD shall reduce the funds in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund by the amount of any expenditures that were not in accordance with the requirements of this part; and
(2) HUD may do one or more of the following:
(i) Prevent withdrawals from the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund for activities affected by the failure to comply;
(ii) Restrict the participating jurisdiction's activities under this part to activities that conform to one or more model programs which HUD has developed in accordance with section 213 of the Act;
(iii) Remove the participating jurisdiction from participation in allocations or reallocations of funds made available under subpart B or J of this part;
(iv) Require the participating jurisdiction to make matching contributions in amounts required by § 92.218(a) as HOME funds are drawn from the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund United States Treasury Account. Provided, however, that HUD may on due notice suspend payments at any time after the issuance of a notice of opportunity for hearing pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, pending such hearing and a final decision, to the extent HUD determines such action necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for activities affected by the failure to comply.
(b)
Proceedings.
When HUD proposes to take action pursuant to this section, the respondent in the proceedings will be the participating jurisdiction or, at HUD's option, the State recipient. Proceedings will be conducted in accordance with 24 CFR part 26.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 44840, Aug. 22, 1997; 78 FR 44683, July 24, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025, § 92.552 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.

# Subpart M—American Dream Downpayment Initiative

# Source:
69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025, Subpart M, consisting of § 92.600—92.618 was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, effective Feb. 3, 2025.
§ 92.600
Purpose.
This subpart describes the requirements for the HOME Program American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI). Through the ADDI, HUD makes formula grants to participating jurisdictions that qualify for allocations to assist low-income families achieve homeownership in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Unless otherwise noted in this subpart, the HOME Program requirements contained in subparts B through L of this part do not apply to the ADDI.
§ 92.602
Eligible activities.
(a)
Eligible activities.
ADDI funds may only be used for:
(1) Downpayment assistance towards the purchase of single family housing by low-income families who are first-time homebuyers; and
(2) Rehabilitation that is completed in conjunction with the home purchase assisted with ADDI funds. The rehabilitation assisted with ADDI funds, including the reduction of lead paint hazards and the remediation of other home health hazards, must be completed within one year of the purchase of the home. Total rehabilitation shall not exceed 20 percent of the participating jurisdiction's ADDI fiscal year formula allocation. FY2003 ADDI funds may not be used for rehabilitation.
(3)
Manufactured housing.
ADDI funds may be used to purchase a manufactured housing unit and purchase a manufactured housing lot. The manufactured housing unit must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing owner, owned as a cooperative, or is subject to a leasehold interest with a term equal to at least the term of the mortgage financing on the unit or the period of affordability (whichever is greater).
(b)
Eligible project costs.
ADDI funds may be used for the following eligible costs:
(1)
Acquisition costs.
The costs of acquiring single family housing.
(2)
Rehabilitation costs.
The eligible development hard costs for rehabilitation projects described in § 92.206(a) and the costs for reduction of lead paint hazards and the remediation of other home health hazards. FY2003 ADDI funds may not be used for rehabilitation.
(3)
Related soft costs.
Reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the homebuyer or participating jurisdiction and
associated with the financing of single family housing acquisition and rehabilitation. These costs include, but are not limited to:
(i) Costs to process and settle the financing for purchase of a home, such as private lender origination fees, credit report fees, fees for title evidence, fees for recordation and filing of legal documents, attorneys fees, and private appraisal fees.
(ii) Architectural, engineering, or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups.
(iii) Costs to provide information services, such as fair housing information to prospective homeowners.
(iv) Staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing inspections, and other services related to assisting a potential homebuyer (
e.g.,
housing counseling), which may be charged to project costs only if the individual purchases single family housing with ADDI assistance.
(v) Costs of environmental review and release of funds (in accordance with 24 CFR part 58) that are directly related to the project.
(4)
Ineligible costs.
ADDI funds may not be used for the development costs (hard costs or soft costs) of new construction of housing or for rental assistance.
(c)
Forms of investment.
A participating jurisdiction may invest ADDI funds as interest-bearing loans or advances, non-interest bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies consistent with the purposes of this subpart, deferred payment loans, grants, or other forms of assistance that HUD determines to be consistent with this subpart. Each participating jurisdiction has the right to establish the terms of assistance, subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(d)
Minimum amount of assistance.
The minimum amount of ADDI funds in combination with HOME funds that must be invested in a project is $1,000.
(e)
Maximum amount of assistance.
The amount of ADDI funds provided to any family shall not exceed the greater of six percent of the purchase price of the single family housing or $10,000. This limitation does not apply to FY2003 ADDI funds.
(f)
Limitation on subrecipients and contractors.
A participating jurisdiction may not provide ADDI funds to an entity or organization that provides downpayment assistance, if the activities of that entity or organization are financed in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by contributions, service fees, or other payments from the sellers of housing, whether or not made in conjunction with the sale of specific housing acquired with ADDI funds.
[69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007]
§ 92.604
ADDI allocation formula.
(a)
General.
HUD will provide ADDI funds to participating jurisdictions in amounts determined by the formula described in this section.
(b)
Allocation to states that are participating jurisdictions.
HUD will provide ADDI funds to each state in an amount that is equal to the percentage of the national total of low-income households residing in rental housing in the state, as determined on the basis of the most recent available U.S. census data (as adjusted by HUD).
(c)
Local participating jurisdictions.
Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, HUD will further allocate to each local participating jurisdiction located within a state an amount equal to the percentage of the state-wide total of low-income households residing in rental housing in such participating jurisdiction, as determined on the basis of the most recent available U.S. census data (as adjusted by HUD).
(d)
Limitation on allocations to local participating jurisdictions.
(1) Allocations under paragraph (c) of this section shall be made only if the local participating jurisdiction:
(i) Has a total population of 150,000 individuals or more, as determined on the basis of the most recent available U.S. census data (as adjusted by HUD); or
(ii) Would receive an allocation of $50,000 or more.
(2) Any allocation that would have otherwise been made to a local participating jurisdiction that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall revert back to the
state in which the participating jurisdiction is located.
(e)
Consortia with members in more than one state.
A consortium with members in more than one state will receive an allocation if the consortium meets the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Allocation of FY2003 ADDI funds.
For the allocation of FY2003 ADDI funds, HUD will consider a participating jurisdiction's need for, and prior commitment to, assistance to homebuyers. Puerto Rico is a “state” for FY2003 ADDI funds.
(1)
Need.
The need of the participating jurisdiction for assistance to homebuyers is measured by its ADDI formula allocation, as calculated under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(2)
Prior commitment.
Only those participating jurisdictions that have demonstrated prior commitment to assistance to homebuyers will receive FY2003 ADDI funds. A participating jurisdiction has demonstrated prior commitment to homebuyers if it has previously committed funds to such purpose under the HOME program, the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, mortgage revenue bonds, or existing funding from state and local governments.
§ 92.606
Reallocations.
If any funds allocated to a participating jurisdiction under § 92.604 become available for reallocation, the funds shall be reallocated in the next fiscal year in accordance with § 92.604.
§ 92.608
Consolidated plan.
To receive an ADDI formula allocation, a participating jurisdiction must address the use of the ADDI funds in its consolidated plan submitted in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
§ 92.610
Program requirements.
The following program requirements contained in subpart E of this part apply to the ADDI:
(a)
Private-public partnership.
The private-public partnership provisions contained in § 92.200 apply to the ADDI.
(b)
Distribution of assistance.
The distribution of assistance requirements contained in § 92.201 apply to the ADDI.
(c)
Income determinations.
The income determination requirements contained in § 92.203 apply to the ADDI.
(d)
Pre-award costs.
The requirements regarding pre-award costs contained in § 92.212 apply to the ADDI.
(e)
Matching contribution requirement.
The matching contribution requirements contained in §§ 92.218 through 92.222 apply to FY2003 ADDI funds only.
§ 92.612
Project requirements.
The following project requirements contained in subpart F of this part apply to the ADDI:
(a)
Maximum per-unit subsidy amount and subsidy layering.
The maximum per-unit subsidy limits and subsidy layering requirements contained in § 92.250 apply to the total HOME and ADDI funds in a project.
(b)
Property standards.
Housing assisted with ADDI funds must meet the property standards contained in § 92.251.
(c)
Qualification as affordable housing.
Housing assisted with ADDI funds must meet the affordability requirements contained in § 92.254(a) and (c). If a project receives both HOME and ADDI funds, the total of HOME and ADDI funds in the project is used for calculating the period of affordability described in § 92.254(a)(4) and applied to resales (§ 92.254(a)(5)(i)) and recaptures (§ 92.254(a)(5)(ii)).
(d)
Faith-based organizations.
Faith-based organizations are eligible to participate in the ADDI as subrecipients or contractors as provided in § 92.257.
§ 92.614
Other Federal requirements.
(a) The following Federal requirements contained in subpart H of this part apply to the ADDI:
(1)
Other Federal requirements and nondiscrimination.
The Federal and nondiscrimination requirements contained in § 92.350 apply to the ADDI.
(2)
Environmental review.
The environmental review requirements contained in § 92.352 apply to the ADDI.
(3)
Affirmative marketing.
The affirmative marketing requirements contained in § 92.351(a).
(4)
Labor.
The labor requirements contained in § 92.354 apply to ADDI.
(5)
Lead-based paint.
The lead-based paint prevention and abatement requirements contained in § 92.355 apply to the ADDI.
(6)
Conflict of interest.
The conflict of interest requirements contained in § 92.356 apply to the ADDI.
(7)
Consultant activities.
The requirements regarding consultant activities contained in § 92.358 apply to the ADDI.
(b) The following Federal requirements contained in subpart H of this part do not apply to the ADDI:
(1)
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
The displacement, relocation, and acquisition requirements implementing the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, contained in § 92.353 do not apply to ADDI, except the requirements do apply to FY2003 ADDI funds.
(2)
Executive Order 12372.
The requirements of Executive Order 12372 (entitled “Intergovernmental Review) described in § 92.357.
[69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 44683, July 24, 2013]
§ 92.616
Program administration.
The following program administration requirements contained in subpart K of this part apply to the ADDI:
(a)
HOME Investment Trust Fund.
The requirements regarding the HOME Investment Trust Fund contained in § 92.500 apply to the ADDI, with the exception of paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(1)(A).
(b)
HOME Investment Partnership Agreement.
The requirements regarding HOME Investment Partnership Agreements contained in § 92.501 apply to the ADDI.
(c)
Program disbursement and information system.
The requirements regarding program disbursement and information systems contained in § 92.502 apply to the ADDI.
(d)
Program income, repayments and recaptured funds.
The requirements regarding program income, repayments, and recaptured funds contained in § 92.503 apply to the ADDI, except the program income and recaptured funds must be deposited in the participating jurisdiction's HOME investments trust fund local account and used in accordance with the HOME program requirements.
(e)
Participating jurisdiction responsibilities and written agreements.
The requirements regarding participating jurisdiction responsibilities and written agreements contained in § 92.504 apply to the ADDI, with the modification that the written agreement is not required to cover any HOME requirement that is not applicable to the ADDI.
(f)
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements.
The uniform administrative requirements contained in § 982.505 apply to the ADDI.
(g)
Audit.
The audit requirements contained in § 92.506 apply to the ADDI.
(h)
Closeout.
The closeout requirements contained in § 92.507 apply to the ADDI.
(i)
Recordkeeping.
The project records must include records demonstrating that the family qualifies as a first-time homebuyer. The recordkeeping requirements contained in § 92.508 apply to the ADDI, with the exception of the following paragraphs:
(1) Paragraph (a)(1);
(2) Paragraphs (a)(2)(iv), (a)(2)(v), (a)(2)(vi), (a)(2)(xi), and (a)(2)(xii);
(3) Paragraphs (a)(3)(vi), (a)(3)(vii), (a)(3)(viii), (a)(3)(ix), and (a)(3)(xiii);
(4) Paragraph (a)(4);
(5) Paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(B), (a)(7)(i)(C), (a)(7)(ii)(A), and (a)(7)(ix) (in addition, the requirements of paragraph (a)(7)(iv) apply to FY2003 ADDI funds only); and
(6) Paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(3) (in addition, the requirements of paragraph (c)(5) apply to FY2003 ADDI funds only).
(j)
Performance reports.
The requirements regarding performance reports contained in § 92.509 apply to the ADDI.
§ 92.618
Performance reviews and sanctions.
HUD will review the performance of participating jurisdictions in carrying out its responsibilities under the ADDI in accordance with the policies and procedures contained in subpart L of this part.
Pt. 93

# PART 93—HOUSING TRUST FUND

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
93.1
Overview.
93.2
Definitions.
93.3
Waivers.

# Subpart B—Allocation Formula; Reallocations
93.50
Formula allocation.
93.51
Formula factors.
93.52
Minimum allocations.
93.53
Federal Register
notice of formula allocations.
93.54
Reallocations by formula.

# Subpart C—Participation and Submission Requirements; Distribution of Assistance
93.100
Participation and submission requirements.
93.101
Distribution of assistance.

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
93.150
Site and neighborhood standards.
93.151
Income determinations.

# Subpart E—Eligible and Prohibited Activities
93.200
Eligible activities: General.
93.201
Eligible project costs.
93.202
Eligible administrative and planning costs.
93.203
HTF funds and public housing.
93.204
Prohibited activities and fees.

# Subpart F—Income Targeting
93.250
Income targeting.

# Subpart G—Project Requirements
93.300
Maximum per-unit subsidy amount, underwriting, and subsidy layering.
93.301
Property standards.
93.302
Qualification as affordable housing: rental housing.
93.303
Tenant protections and selection.
93.304
Qualification as affordable housing: homeownership.
93.305
Qualification as affordable housing: modest housing requirements for homeownership; resale or recapture requirements.

# Subpart H—Other Federal Requirements
93.350
Other Federal requirements and nondiscrimination; affirmative marketing.
93.351
Lead-based paint.
93.352
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
93.353
Conflict of interest.
93.354
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act.
93.355
Eminent domain.
93.356
VAWA requirements.

# Subpart I—Program Administration
93.400
Housing Trust Fund (HTF) accounts.
93.401
HTF grant agreement.
93.402
Program disbursement and information system.
93.403
Program income and repayments.
93.404
Grantee responsibilities; written agreements; onsite inspections; financial oversight.
93.405
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audits.
93.406
Audits.
93.407
Recordkeeping.
93.408
Performance reports.

# Subpart J—Performance Reviews and Sanctions
93.450
Accountability of recipients.
93.451
Performance reviews.
93.452
Corrective and remedial actions.
93.453
Notice and opportunity for hearing; sanctions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 12 U.S.C. 4568.

# Source:
80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 93.1
Overview.
(a) This part implements the Housing Trust Fund (HTF) program established under section 1338 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
) (the Act). In general, under the HTF program, HUD allocates funds by formula to eligible States to increase and preserve the supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing, with primary attention to rental housing for extremely low-income and very low-income households, including homeless families.
(b) Section 1337 of the Act requires a percentage of the unpaid principal balance of total new business for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) (collectively, the government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs) to be setaside and allocated as a dedicated source of annual funding for the HTF, unless allocations are suspended by the
Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the agency that regulates the GSEs. These funds will be deposited into an HTF account established in the Treasury of the United States by the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out the HTF program. The Act also provides that the HTF may be funded with amounts appropriated, transferred, or credited to the HTF under other provisions of law.
§ 93.2
Definitions.
1937 Act
means the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
).
Act
means the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4501
et seq
).
Annual income.
See § 93.151.
Commitment
means:
(1) The grantee has executed a legally binding written agreement (that includes the date of the signature of each person signing the agreement) with an eligible recipient for a project that meets the definition of “commit to a specific local project” of paragraph (2) of this definition.
(2) “Commit to a specific local project” means:
(i) If the project consists of rehabilitation or new construction (with or without acquisition), the grantee and recipient have executed a written legally binding agreement under which HTF assistance will be provided to the recipient for an identifiable project for which construction can reasonably be expected to start within 12 months of the agreement date. The written agreement for rehabilitation or new construction of rental housing may also provide operating cost assistance and/or operating cost assistance reserves.
(ii) If the project consists of acquisition of standard housing and the grantee is providing HTF funds to a recipient to acquire rental housing, or to a first-time homebuyer family to acquire single family housing for homeownership, the grantee and recipient or the family have executed a written agreement under which HTF assistance will be provided for the purchase of the rental housing or single family housing and the property title will be transferred to the recipient or family within 6 months of the agreement date. The written agreement for acquisition of rental housing may also provide operating cost assistance and/or operating cost assistance reserves.
(iii) If the project is for renewal of operating cost assistance or operating cost assistance reserves, the grantee and the recipient must have executed a legally binding written agreement under which HTF funds will be provided to the recipient for operating cost assistance or operating cost assistance reserves for the identified HTF project.
Consolidated plan
means the plan submitted and approved in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
Displaced homemaker
means an individual who:
(1) Is an adult;
(2) Has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force for a number of years, but has, during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and
(3) Is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
Extremely low-income families
means low-income families whose annual incomes do not exceed 30 percent of the median family income of a geographic area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families.
Family
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403.
First-time homebuyer
means an individual and his or her spouse who have not owned a home during the 3-year period prior to purchase of a home with assistance under this part. The term first-time homebuyer also includes an individual who is a displaced homemaker or single parent, as those terms are defined in this section.
Foster adult
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
Foster child
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
Full-time student
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.603.
Grantee
means the State or the State-designated entity that receives the HTF funds from HUD.
HTF allocation plan
means the annual submission to HUD required by the Act
that describes how the grantee will distribute its HTF funds, including how it will use the funds to address its priority housing needs, what activities may be undertaken with those funds, and how recipients and projects will be selected to receive those funds. See 24 CFR 91.220(l)(4) and 91.320(k)(5).
HTF funds
means funds made available under this part through formula allocations and reallocations, plus program income.
Homeownership
means ownership in fee simple title in a 1- to 4-unit dwelling or in a condominium unit, or equivalent form of ownership approved by HUD.
(1) The land may be owned in fee simple or the homeowner may have a 99-year ground lease.
(i) For housing located in the insular areas, the ground lease must be 40 years or more.
(ii) For housing located on Indian trust or restricted Indian lands or a Community Land Trust, the ground lease must be 50 years or more.
(iii) For manufactured housing, the ground lease must be for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability in § 93.304(e).
(2) Right to possession under a contract for deed, installment contract, or land contract (pursuant to which the deed is not given until the final payment is made) is not an equivalent form of ownership.
(3) The ownership interest may be subject only to the restrictions on resale required under § 93.304; mortgages, deeds of trust, or other liens or instruments securing debt on the property as approved by the grantee; or any other restrictions or encumbrances that do not impair the good and marketable nature of title to the ownership interest.
(4) The grantee must determine whether or not ownership or membership in a cooperative or mutual housing project constitutes homeownership under State law; however, if the cooperative or mutual housing project receives low income housing tax credits, the ownership or membership does not constitute homeownership.
Homeownership counseling
has the same meaning given the term in 24 CFR 5.100, and is a type of housing counseling.
Household
means one or more persons occupying a housing unit.
Housing
includes manufactured housing and manufactured housing lots, permanent housing for disabled homeless persons, single-room occupancy housing, and group homes. Housing does not include emergency shelters (including shelters for disaster victims) or facilities such as nursing homes, convalescent homes, hospitals, residential treatment facilities, correctional facilities, halfway houses, housing for students, or dormitories (including farmworker dormitories).
Housing counseling
has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 5.100.
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Income-eligible
means a family, homeowner, or household (as appropriate given the context of the specific regulatory provision) that is very low-income, extremely low-income, or both, depending on the income-targeting requirements set forth in § 93.250.
Insular areas
means Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
Live-in aide
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.403.
Neighborhood
means a geographic location designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographical designation that is within the boundary but does not encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government; except that if the unit of general local government has a population under 25,000, the neighborhood may, but need not, encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government.
Poverty line
is defined in section 673 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 9902).
Program income
means gross income received by the grantee that is directly generated from the use of HTF funds. When program income is generated by housing that is only partially assisted with HTF funds, the income shall be prorated to reflect the percentage of
HTF funds used. Program income includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Proceeds from the disposition by sale or long-term lease of real property acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed with HTF funds;
(2) Gross income from the use or rental of real property owned by the grantee that was acquired, rehabilitated, or constructed with HTF funds, minus costs that were incidental to generation of the income; therefore, program income does not include gross income from the use, rental, or sale of real property received by the recipient, unless the funds are paid by the recipient to the grantee);
(3) Payments of principal and interest on loans made using HTF funds;
(4) Proceeds from the sale of loans made with HTF funds;
(5) Proceeds from the sale of obligations secured by loans made with HTF funds;
(6) Interest earned on program income pending its disposition; and
(7) Any other interest or return on the investment of HTF funds, as permitted under § 93.200(b).
Project
means a site or sites together with any building (including a manufactured housing unit) or buildings located on the site(s) that are under common ownership, management, and financing and are to be assisted with HTF funds as a single undertaking under this part. The project includes all the activities associated with the site and building.
Project completion
means that all necessary title transfer requirements and construction work have been performed, the project complies with the requirements of this part (including the property standards under § 93.301 of this part), the final drawdown has been disbursed for the project, and the project completion information has been entered in the disbursement and information system established by HUD, except that with respect to rental housing project completion, for the purposes of § 93.402(d) of this part, project completion occurs upon completion of construction before occupancy.
Public Housing Agency (PHA)
has the same meaning given that term in 24 CFR 5.100.
Recipient
means an organization, agency, or other entity (including a public housing agency, or a for-profit entity or a nonprofit entity) that receives HTF assistance from a grantee as an owner or developer to carry out an HTF-assisted project. A recipient must:
(1) Make acceptable assurances to the grantee that it will comply with the requirements of the HTF program during the entire period that begins upon selection of the recipient to receive HTF funds, and ending upon the conclusion of all HTF-funded activities;
(2) Demonstrate the ability and financial capacity to undertake, comply, and manage the eligible activity;
(3) Demonstrate its familiarity with the requirements of other Federal, State, or local housing programs that may be used in conjunction with HTF funds to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements and regulations of such programs; and
(4) Have demonstrated experience and capacity to conduct an eligible HTF activity as evidenced by its ability to:
(i) Own, construct, or rehabilitate, and manage and operate an affordable multifamily rental housing development; or
(ii) Design, construct, or rehabilitate, and market affordable housing for homeownership.
(iii) Provide forms of assistance, such as down payments, closing costs, or interest rate buydowns for purchasers.
Reconstruction
means the rebuilding, on the same lot, of housing standing on a site at the time of project commitment, except that housing that was destroyed may be rebuilt on the same lot if HTF funds are committed within 12 months of the date of destruction. The number of housing units on the lot may not be decreased or increased as part of a reconstruction project, but the number of rooms per unit may be increased or decreased. Reconstruction also includes replacing an existing substandard unit of manufactured housing with a new or standard unit of manufactured housing. Reconstruction is new construction for purposes of this part.
Shortage of standard rental units both affordable and available to extremely low-income renter households
means
(1) For any State or other geographical area the gap between:
(i) The number of units with complete plumbing and kitchen facilities with a rent that does not exceed 30 percent of 30 percent of the adjusted area median income (AMI) as determined by HUD that either are occupied by extremely low-income renter households or are vacant for rent; and
(ii) The number of extremely low-income renter households.
(2) If the number of units described in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition exceeds the number of extremely low-income households described in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition, there is no shortage.
Single family housing
means a one-to four-family residence, condominium unit, cooperative unit, combination of manufactured housing and lot, or manufactured housing lot.
Single parent
means an individual who:
(1) Is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and
(2) Has one or more minor children of whom the individual has custody or joint custody, or is pregnant.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
State-designated entity
means a State housing finance agency, tribally designated housing entity, or any other qualified instrumentality of the State that is designated by the State to be the grantee.
Subgrantee
means a unit of general local government or State agency selected by the grantee to administer all or a portion of its HTF program. A local government subgrantee must have an approved consolidated plan submitted in accordance with 24 CFR part 91. The selection of a subgrantee by a grantee is not subject to the procurement procedures and requirements.
Tribally designated housing entity
has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1997 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
Unit of general local government
means a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; and any agency or instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the jurisdiction with regard to provisions of this part. When a county is an urban county, the urban county is the unit of general local government for purposes of the HTF program.
Urban county
has the meaning given the term in 24 CFR 570.3.
Very low-income renter households
means a household whose income is in excess of 30 percent but not greater than 50 percent of the area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, as determined by HUD.
Very low-income families
means low-income families whose annual incomes are in excess of 30 percent but not greater than 50 percent of the median family income of a geographic area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families. “Very low-income family” also includes any family that resides in a nonmetropolitan area that does not exceed the poverty line applicable to the family size involved.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016; 88 FR 9664, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 93.3
Waivers.
HUD may, upon a determination of good cause and subject to statutory limitations, waive any provision of this part and delegate this authority in accordance with section 106 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3535(q)).

# Subpart B—Allocation Formula; Reallocations
§ 93.50
Formula allocation.
(a)
Allocations to States.
HUD will provide to the States allocations of funds in amounts determined by the formula described in this part.
(b)
Amount available for allocation.
The amount of funds available for allocation by the formula is the balance remaining after providing for other purposes authorized by Congress, in accordance with the Act and appropriations.
(c)
Allocations for the insular areas.
The allocation amount for each insular area is determined by multiplying the funds available times the ratio of renter households in each insular area to the total number of renter households in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the insular areas.
(d)
Allocations for the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia
—(1)
Amounts available for allocations.
The amount of funds that is available for allocation by the formula to the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia is determined using the most current data available from the U.S. Census Bureau that is available for the same year for all these geographic areas. The amount is equal to the balance of funds remaining after determining formula allocations for the insular areas under § 93.50(c). For purposes of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the term “State” means any of the 50 United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.
(2)
Allocations.
(i) Allocations to the States are determined using the four needs factors described in § 93.51(a) through (d), multiplying each factor by the amount available under § 93.51(d)(1) by its priority weight, and summing the four factors for each State.
(ii) The factor described in § 93.51(a) is weighted 0.5. The factors described in § 93.51(b) and (d) are weighted at 0.125 and the factor described in § 93.51(c) of this section is weighted at 0.25.
(iii) The sum of the four needs factors for each State is then multiplied by the construction cost factor described in § 93.51(e) of this section and by the total amount of funds available for State allocations.
§ 93.51
Formula factors.
(a)
Need factor one.
The ratio of the shortage of standard rental units both affordable and available to extremely low-income renter households in the State to the aggregate shortage of standard rental units both affordable and available to extremely low-income renter households in all the States.
(b)
Need factor two.
The ratio of the shortage of standard rental units both affordable and available to very low-income renter households in the State to the aggregate shortage of standard rental units both affordable and available to very low-income renter households in all the States.
(c)
Need factor three.
The ratio of:
(1) Extremely low-income renter households in the State living with either incomplete kitchen or plumbing facilities, more than one person per room, or paying more than 50 percent of income for housing costs, to
(2) The aggregate number of extremely low-income renter households living with either incomplete kitchen or plumbing facilities, more than one person per room, or paying more than 50 percent of income for housing costs in all the States.
(d)
Need factor four.
The ratio of very low-income renter households in the State paying more than 50 percent of income on rent relative to the aggregate number of very low-income renter households paying more than 50 percent of income on rent in all the States.
(e)
Construction cost factor.
The resulting sum calculated from the factors described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall be multiplied by the relative cost of construction in the state. For purposes of calculating this factor, the term “cost of construction”:
(1) Means the cost of construction or building rehabilitation in the State relative to the national cost of construction or building rehabilitation; and
(2) Is calculated so that values higher than 1.0 indicate that the State's construction costs are higher than the national average, a value of 1.0 indicates that the State's construction costs are exactly the same as the national average, and values lower than 1.0 indicate that the State's cost of construction are lower than the national average.
§ 93.52
Minimum allocations.
(a) In accordance with the HTF statute, HUD is required to provide each of the States and the District of Columbia with a minimum grant of $3 million. If the formula amount determined for a fiscal year is less than $3 million to any of the 50 States or the District of Columbia, then the allocation to that State or the District of Columbia is increased to $3 million, and allocations to States and the District of Columbia above $3 million and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the insular areas are adjusted by an equal amount on a pro rata basis.
(b) If in any fiscal year, funding in the HTF is insufficient to provide each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia with a minimum grant of $3 million, HUD will, through notice published in the
Federal Register
for public comment, describe an alternative method for allocating grant funds to the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
§ 93.53
Federal Register notice of formula allocations.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date that HUD determines the formula amounts under this subpart, HUD will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of the allocations to States.
§ 93.54
Reallocations by formula.
(a) HUD will reallocate under this section:
(1) Any HTF funds available for reallocation because HUD reduced or recaptured funds from an HTF grantee under § 93.400(d) for failure to commit or expend the funds within the time specified, or under § 93.453 for failure to comply substantially with any provision of this part;
(2) Any HTF funds reduced for failure by the grantee to obtain funds required to be reimbursed or returned under § 93.450; and
(3) Any HTF funds remitted to HUD under § 93.403(b)(4) when a grantee ceases to be an HTF grantee for any reason.
(b) Any reallocation of funds must be made only among all participating States, except those States from which the funds were recaptured or reduced.
(c) Any amounts that become available for reallocation shall be added to amounts for formula allocation in the succeeding fiscal year.

# Subpart C—Participation and Submission Requirements; Distribution of Assistance
§ 93.100
Participation and submission requirements.
(a)
Notification of intent to participate.
Not later than 30 calendar days after HUD's publication of the formula allocation amounts as provided in § 93.53, the State must notify HUD in writing of its intention to become an HTF grantee for the first year of HTF funding.
(b)
Submission requirement.
To receive its HTF grant, the grantee must submit a consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR part 91.
§ 93.101
Distribution of assistance.
(a) A State may choose to be the HTF grantee to receive and administer its grant or it may choose a qualified State-designated entity to be the HTF grantee.
(b) Each grantee is responsible for distributing HTF funds throughout the State according to the State's assessment of the priority housing needs within the State, as identified in the State's approved consolidated plan.
(c) An HTF grantee may choose to directly fund projects by eligible recipients in accordance with the State's HTF allocation plan or to fund projects by eligible recipients through one or more subgrantees. An HTF subgrantee that is a unit of general local government must have a consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91, and must include an HTF allocation plan in its consolidated plan (see 24 CFR 91.220(l)(4)), and must select projects by eligible recipients in accordance with its HTF allocation plan. Because a State has only one consolidated plan, and HTF allocation plan for an HTF subgrantee that is a State agency must be included in the State's HTF allocation plan. The grantee or subgrantee must determine that the applicant is an eligible recipient that meets the definition of “recipient” in § 93.2 before awarding HTF assistance.
(d) If the HTF grantee subgrants HTF funds to subgrantees, the grantee must ensure that its subgrantees comply with the requirements of this part and carry out the responsibilities of the grantee. The grantee must annually review the performance of subgrantees in accordance with 24 CFR 93.404(a).

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
§ 93.150
Site and neighborhood standards.
(a)
General.
A grantee must administer its HTF program in a manner that provides housing that is suitable from the standpoint of facilitating and furthering full compliance with the applicable provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.,
E.O. 11063, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 652) and HUD regulations issued pursuant thereto; and promotes greater choice of housing opportunities.
(b)
New rental housing.
In carrying out the site and neighborhood requirements with respect to new construction of rental housing, a grantee is responsible for making the determination that proposed sites for new construction meet the requirements in 24 CFR 983.55(e)(2).
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 93.151
Income determinations.
(a)
General.
The HTF program has income-targeting requirements. Therefore, the grantee must determine that each family occupying an HTF-assisted unit is income-eligible by determining the family's annual income.
(1) If a family is applying for or living in an HTF-assisted rental unit, and the unit is assisted under the public housing program, then a grantee must accept the public housing agency's determination of the family's annual income and adjusted income under §§ 5.609 and 5.611 of this title, respectively.
(2) If a family is applying for or living in an HTF-assisted rental unit, and the family is assisted under a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program (
e.g.,
housing choice voucher program, HOME tenant based rental assistance, etc.), then a grantee must accept the rental assistance provider's determination of the family's annual income and adjusted income under the rules of that program.
(3) If a family is applying for or living in an HTF-assisted rental unit, and the unit is assisted with a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, then a grantee must accept the public housing agency, owner, or rental subsidy provider's determination of the family's annual income and adjusted income under the rules of that program.
(4) In all other cases, the grantee must calculate annual income in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b)
Definition of “annual income.”
(1) When determining whether a family is income-eligible, the grantee must use one of the following two definitions of “annual income”:
(i) “
Annual income”
as defined at §§ 5.609 (a) and (b) of this title; or
(ii) “
Adjusted gross income”
as defined for purposes of reporting under the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes.
(2) The grantee may use only one definition of annual income for each HTF-assisted program (
e.g.,
down payment assistance program) that it administers and only one definition for each rental housing project. For projects where either a family or unit is assisted under the public housing program, a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program (
e.g.,
housing choice voucher program, HOME tenant-based rental assistance, etc.), or a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, the grantee must calculate annual income in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section so that only one definition of annual income is used in the project.
(c)
Determining annual income
—(1)
Tenants in HTF-assisted housing.
For families who are tenants in HTF-assisted housing, the grantee must initially determine annual income using the method in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For subsequent income determinations during the period of affordability, the grantee may use any one of the methods described in paragraph (d)
of this section, in accordance with § 93.302(e).
(2)
HTF-assisted homebuyers.
For families who are HTF-assisted homebuyers, the grantee must determine annual income using the method described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(d)
Required documentation for Annual Income calculations.
(1) Examine at least 2 months of source documents evidencing annual income (
e.g.,
wage statement, interest statement, unemployment compensation statement) for the family.
(2) Obtain from the family a written statement of the amount of the family's annual income and family size, along with a certification that the information is complete and accurate. The certification must state that the family will provide source documents upon request.
(3) Obtain a written statement from the administrator of a government program under which the family receives benefits and which examines each year the annual income of the family. The statement must indicate the tenant's family size and state the amount of the family's annual income; or alternatively, the statement must indicate the current dollar limit for very low- or low-income families for the family size of the tenant and state that the tenant's annual income does not exceed this limit.
(e)
Determining family composition and projecting income.
(1) The grantee must calculate the annual income of the family by projecting the prevailing rate of income of the family at the time the grantee determines that the family is income eligible. Annual income includes income from all persons in the household, except live-in aides, foster children, and foster adults. Income or asset enhancement derived from the HTF-assisted project shall not be considered in calculating annual income. Families may use the certification process in § 5.618 of this title to certify that their net family assets are below the threshold for imputing income used in § 5.609(a)(2) of this title. For families living in HTF-assisted rental housing units, any rental assistance provided to the family under a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program or any Federal or State project-based rental subsidy provided to the HTF rental housing unit shall not be counted as tenant income for purposes of determining annual income.
(2) The grantee is not required to re-examine the family's income at the time the HTF assistance is provided, unless more than six months has elapsed since the grantee determined that the family qualified as income eligible.
(f)
Adjusted Income.
The HTF program does not require that adjusted income be used or calculated by HTF grantees. If a family or unit is assisted with public housing, Federal tenant-based rental assistance, (
e.g.,
housing choice voucher program, HOME tenant-based rental assistance, etc.), or by a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, then a grantee must accept the determination of adjusted income made under the rules of that program in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.
[88 FR 9664, Feb. 14, 2023]

# Subpart E—Eligible and Prohibited Activities
§ 93.200
Eligible activities: General.
(a)(1) HTF funds may be used for the production, preservation, and rehabilitation of affordable rental housing and affordable housing for first-time homebuyers through the acquisition (including assistance to homebuyers), new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of nonluxury housing with suitable amenities, including real property acquisition, site improvements, conversion, demolition, and other expenses, including financing costs, relocation expenses of any displaced persons, families, businesses, or organizations; for operating costs of HTF-assisted rental housing; and for reasonable administrative and planning costs. Not more than one third of each annual grant may be used for operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves. Operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves may be provided only to rental housing acquired, rehabilitated, reconstructed, or newly constructed with
HTF funds. Not more than 10 percent of the annual grant shall be used for housing for homeownership. HTF-assisted housing must be permanent housing. The specific eligible costs for these activities are found in §§ 93.201 and 93.202. The activities and costs are eligible only if the housing meets the property standards in § 93.301, as applicable, upon project completion.
(2) Acquisition of vacant land or demolition must be undertaken only with respect to a particular housing project intended to provide affordable housing within the time frames established in the definition of “commitment” in § 93.2.
(3) HTF funds may be used to purchase and/or rehabilitate a manufactured housing unit, and purchase the land upon which a manufactured housing unit is located. The manufactured housing unit must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing unit owner or land for which the manufactured housing owner has a lease for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability.
(b)
Forms of assistance to projects.
A grantee may provide HTF funds as equity investments, interest-bearing loans or advances, non-interest-bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies consistent with the purposes of this part, deferred payment loans, grants, or other forms of assistance that HUD determines to be consistent with the purposes of this part. Each grantee has the right to establish the terms of assistance, subject to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Multi-unit projects.
(1) HTF funds may be used to assist in the development of one or more housing units in a multi-unit project. Only the actual HTF eligible development costs of the assisted units may be charged to the HTF program. If the assisted and non-assisted units are not comparable, the actual costs may be determined based on a method of cost allocation. If the assisted and non-assisted units are comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms, the actual cost of the HTF-assisted units can be determined by prorating the total HTF-eligible development costs of the project so that the proportion of the total development costs charged to the HTF program does not exceed the proportion of the HTF-assisted units in the project.
(2) After project completion, the number of units designated as HTF-assisted may be reduced only in accordance with § 93.203, except that in a project consisting of all HTF-assisted units, one unit may be converted to an onsite manager's unit if the grantee determines the conversion is reasonable and that, based on one fewer HTF-assisted unit, the costs charged to the HTF program do not exceed the actual costs of the HTF-assisted units and do not exceed the subsidy limit established pursuant to § 93.300(a).
(d)
Terminated projects.
An HTF-assisted project that is terminated before completion, either voluntarily or otherwise, constitutes an ineligible activity and the grantee must repay any HTF funds invested in the project to its HTF account from which the funds were drawn (
i.e.,
local or Treasury account), in accordance with § 93.403(b). A project that does not meet the requirements for affordable housing must be terminated and the grantee must repay the HTF funds to the grantee's HTF account.
§ 93.201
Eligible project costs.
HTF funds may be used to pay the following eligible costs:
(a)
Development hard costs.
The actual cost of constructing or rehabilitating housing. These costs include the following:
(1) For new construction projects, costs to meet the new construction standards of the grantee in § 93.301;
(2) For rehabilitation, costs to meet the property standards for rehabilitation projects in § 93.301(b);
(3) For both new construction and rehabilitation projects, costs:
(i) To demolish existing structures;
(ii) To make utility connections including off-site connections from the property line to the adjacent street; and
(iii) To make improvements to the project site that are in keeping with improvements of surrounding, standard
projects. Site improvements may include onsite roads and sewer and water lines necessary to the development of the project. The project site is the property, owned by the project owner, upon which the project is located.
(4) For both new construction and rehabilitation of multifamily rental housing projects, costs to construct or rehabilitate laundry and community facilities that are located within the same building as the housing and which are for the use of the project residents and their guests.
(5) Costs to make utility connections or to make improvements to the project site, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section are also eligible in connection with the acquisition of standard housing.
(b)
Refinancing costs.
(1) The cost to refinance existing debt secured by rental housing units that are being rehabilitated with HTF funds, but only if the refinancing is necessary to reduce the overall housing costs and to make the housing more affordable and proportional to the number of HTF-assisted units in the rental project. The proportional rehabilitation cost must be greater than the proportional amount of debt that is refinanced.
(2) The grantee must establish refinancing guidelines and state them in its consolidated plan described in 24 CFR part 91. The guidelines shall describe the conditions under which the grantee will refinance existing debt. At minimum, the guidelines must demonstrate that rehabilitation is the primary eligible activity and ensure that this requirement is met by establishing a minimum level of rehabilitation per unit or a required ratio between rehabilitation and refinancing.
(c)
Acquisition costs.
Costs of acquiring improved or unimproved real property, including acquisition by homebuyers.
(d)
Related soft costs.
Other reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the owner or grantee and associated with the financing, or development (or both) of new construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of housing assisted with HTF funds. These costs include, but are not limited to:
(1) Architectural, engineering, or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups. The costs may be paid if they were incurred not more than 24 months before the date that HTF funds are committed to the project and the grantee expressly permits HTF funds to be used to pay the costs in the written agreement committing the funds.
(2) Costs to process and settle the financing for a project, such as private lender origination fees, credit reports, fees for title evidence, fees for recordation and filing of legal documents, building permits, attorneys' fees, private appraisal fees and fees for an independent cost estimate, and builders' or developers' fees.
(3) Costs of a project audit, including certification of costs performed by a certified public accountant, that the grantee may require with respect to the development of the project.
(4) Costs to provide information services such as affirmative marketing and fair housing information to prospective homeowners and tenants as required by § 93.350.
(5) For new construction or rehabilitation, the cost of funding an initial operating deficit reserve, which is a reserve to meet any shortfall in project income during the period of project rent-up (not to exceed 18 months) and which may only be used to pay project operating expenses, scheduled payments to a replacement reserve, and debt service. Any HTF funds placed in an operating deficit reserve that remain unexpended after the period of project rent-up may be retained for project reserves if permitted by the grantee.
(6) Staff and overhead costs of the grantee directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, and inspections. For multi-unit projects, such costs must be allocated among HTF-assisted units in a reasonable manner and documented. Although these costs may be charged as project costs, these costs cannot be charged to or paid by the assisted families.
(7) For both new construction and rehabilitation, costs for the payment of
impact fees that are charged for all projects within a jurisdiction.
(e)
Operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves.
For HTF-assisted units for which project-based assistance is not available, when necessary and subject to the limitations in § 93.200(a), HTF funds may be used to pay for operating cost assistance and operating cost assistance reserves, as follows:
(1) Operating costs are costs for insurance, utilities, real property taxes, and maintenance and scheduled payments to a reserve for replacement of major systems (provided that the payments must be based on the useful life of each major system and expected replacement cost) of an HTF-assisted unit. The eligible amount of HTF funds per unit for operating cost assistance is determined based on the deficit remaining after the monthly rent payment for the HTF-assisted unit is applied to the HTF-assisted unit's share of monthly operating costs. The maximum amount of the operating cost assistance to be provided to an HTF-assisted rental project must be based on the underwriting of the project and must be specified in a written agreement between the grantee and the recipient. The written agreement may commit, from a fiscal year HTF grant, funds for operating cost assistance for a multiyear period provided that the grantee is able meet its expenditure deadline in § 93.400(d). The grantee may renew operating cost assistance with future fiscal year HTF grants during the affordability period and the amount must be based on the need for the operating cost assistance at the time the assistance is renewed.
(2) An operating cost assistance reserve may be funded by the grantee for HTF-assisted units in a project where the grantee determines in its underwriting of the project the reserve is necessary to ensure the project's financial feasibility. If the operating cost assistance reserve is funded with appropriated HTF funds, the allowable amount of the reserve shall not exceed the amount determined by the grantee to be necessary to provide operating cost assistance for HTF-assisted units, for a period not to exceed 5 years, based on an analysis of potential deficits remaining after the expected rent payments for the HTF-assisted unit are applied to the HTF-assisted unit's expected share of operating costs. The grantee may renew operating cost assistance reserves with future fiscal year HTF grants during the affordability period and the amount must be based on the need for the operating cost assistance reserve at the time the assistance for the reserve is renewed. If the operating cost assistance reserve is funded with non-appropriated HTF funds, the reserve may be funded for the period of affordability.
(f)
Relocation costs.
The cost of relocation payments and other relocation assistance to persons displaced by the project are eligible costs.
(1) Relocation payments include replacement housing payments, payments for moving expenses, and payments for reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred in the temporary relocation of persons.
(2) Other relocation assistance means staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship.
(g)
Costs relating to payment of loans.
If the HTF funds are not used to directly pay a cost specified in this section, but are used to pay off a construction loan, bridge financing loan, or guaranteed loan, the payment of principal and interest for such loan is an eligible cost only if:
(1) The loan was used for eligible costs specified in this section, and
(2) The HTF assistance is part of the original financing for the project and the project meets the requirements of this part.
(h)
Construction undertaken before the HTF funds are committed to the project.
HTF funds cannot be used for development hard costs, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, or for acquisition, undertaken before the HTF funds are committed to the project. However, the written agreement committing the
HTF funds to the project may authorize HTF funds to be used for architectural and engineering costs and other related professional services, as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
§ 93.202
Eligible administrative and planning costs.
(a)
General.
A HTF grantee may expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HTF, an amount of HTF funds that is not more than 10 percent of the sum of each fiscal year HTF grant and of program income deposited into its local account or received and reported by its subgrantees during the program year. A HTF grantee may expend the funds directly or may authorize its subgrantees, if any, to expend all or a portion of such funds, provided total expenditures for planning and administrative costs do not exceed the maximum allowable amount. Reasonable administrative and planning costs are those costs described in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section:
(b)
General management, oversight and coordination.
Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following:
(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the grantee's staff. In charging costs to this category the grantee may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose
primary
responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes
any
program administration assignments. The grantee may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments:
(i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements;
(ii) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with entities receiving HTF funds;
(iii) Monitoring HTF-assisted housing for progress and compliance with program requirements;
(iv) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD;
(v) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings;
(vi) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and
(vii) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section;
(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program;
(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services;
(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space; and
(c)
Staff and overhead.
Staff and overhead costs of the grantee directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, inspections, lead-based paint evaluations (visual assessments, inspections, and risk assessments), other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants and homebuyers (
e.g.,
housing counseling); and staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. These costs (except homeownership counseling) may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs under § 93.201(d)(6) and (f)(2), at the discretion of the grantee; however, these costs (except homeownership counseling) cannot be charged to or paid by the low-income families.
(d)
Public information.
The provision of information and other resources to
residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of projects being assisted with HTF funds.
(e)
Fair housing.
Activities to affirmatively further fair housing in accordance with the grantee's certification under 24 CFR part 91.
(f)
Indirect costs.
Indirect costs may be charged to the HTF program in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(g)
Preparation of the consolidated plan.
Preparation of the consolidated plan required under 24 CFR part 91. Preparation includes the costs of public hearings, consultations, and publication.
(h)
Other Federal requirements.
Costs of complying with the Federal requirements in subpart H of this part.
§ 93.203
HTF funds and public housing.
(a) HTF funds may be used for new construction or rehabilitation of public housing units only in accordance with the following:
(1) HTF funds may be used for new construction of public housing as part of the Choice Neighborhoods (Choice) program under a HUD appropriation act or for new public housing units that have been allocated and will receive low-income housing tax credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42).
(2) HTF funds may be used for the rehabilitation of existing public housing units in which the public housing assistance will be converted and used at the properties under the Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) program under HUD's 2012 Appropriations Act (Pub. L. 112-55, 125 Stat. 552, approved November 18, 2011) or subsequent statutes. HTF funds may also be used for the rehabilitation of existing public housing under the Choice program, and of existing public housing units that have been allocated and will receive low-income housing tax credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42).
(b) The public housing units constructed using funds under this part must replace units that were removed from a public housing agency's public housing inventory as part of a Choice program grant, or as part of a mixed-financed development under section 35 of the 1937 Act. The number of replacement units cannot be more than the number of units removed from the public housing agency's inventory. The public housing units constructed or rehabilitated using funds under this part must receive Public Housing Operating Fund assistance (and may receive Public Housing Capital Fund assistance) under section 9 of the 1937 Act. These units cannot receive operating costs assistance or operating cost assistance reserves under this part.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, HTF-assisted housing may not receive Operating Fund or Capital Fund assistance under section 9 of the 1937 Act during the HTF period of affordability.
(d) Consistent with § 93.200(c), HTF funds may be used for affordable housing in a project that also contains public housing units, provided that the HTF funds are not used for the public housing units and HTF funds are used only for eligible costs, in accordance with this part.
§ 93.204
Prohibited activities and fees.
(a) HTF funds may not be used to:
(1) Provide assistance (other than assistance to a homebuyer to acquire housing previously assisted with HTF funds or renewal of operating cost assistance or renewal of operating cost assistance reserve) to a project previously assisted with HTF funds during the period of affordability established by the grantee in the written agreement under § 93.404 (c)(2)(iv). However, additional HTF funds may be committed to a project up to one year after project completion, but the amount of HTF funds in the project may not exceed the maximum per-unit development subsidy amount established pursuant to § 93.300.
(2) Pay for the acquisition of property owned by the grantee, except for property acquired by the grantee with HTF funds or property acquired in anticipation of carrying out an HTF project.
(3) Pay delinquent taxes, fees, or charges on properties to be assisted with HTF funds.
(4) Pay for political activities, advocacy, lobbying (whether directly or through other parties), counseling services (except for housing counseling), travel expenses (other than those eligible under § 93.202(b)), or preparing or providing advice on tax returns. The prohibited use of funds for political activities includes influencing the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of one or more candidates to any Federal, State, or local office as codified in section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501).
(5) Pay for administrative, outreach, or other costs to manage and operate the grantee of HTF funds, except those administrative costs necessary to carry out the HTF program in § 93.202, including housing counseling.
(6) Pay for any cost that is not eligible under § 93.201 and § 93.202.
(b)(1) The grantee may not charge (and must prohibit subgrantees and recipients from charging) servicing, origination, or other fees for the costs of administering the HTF program. However, the grantee may charge owners of rental projects reasonable annual fees for monitoring compliance during the period of affordability. The fees must be based upon the average actual cost of performing the monitoring of HTF-assisted rental projects. The basis for determining the amount of the fee must be documented and the fee must be included in the costs of the project as part of the project underwriting.
(2) The grantee may also charge nominal application fees (although these fees are not an eligible HTF cost) to eligible recipients, to discourage frivolous applications. The amount of application fees must be appropriate to the type of application and may not create an undue impediment to an extremely low-income family to be able to participate in the grantee's program.
(3) All fees are applicable credits under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(4) In addition, the grantee must prohibit project owners from charging fees that are not customarily charged in rental housing (
e.g.,
laundry room access fees), except that rental project owners may charge:
(i) Reasonable application fees to prospective tenants;
(ii) Parking fees to tenants only if such fees are customary for rental housing projects in the neighborhood; and
(iii) Fees for services such as bus transportation or meals, as long as the services are voluntary and fees are charged for services provided.

# Subpart F—Income Targeting
§ 93.250
Income targeting.
(a) In any fiscal year in which the total amount available for allocation of HTF funds is less than $1 billion, the grantee must use 100 percent of its HTF grant for the benefit of extremely low-income families or families with incomes at or below the poverty line (whichever is greater). In any fiscal year in which the total amount available for allocation of HTF funds is greater than $1 billion, the grantee must use at least 75 percent of its grant for the benefit of extremely low-income families or families with incomes at or below the poverty line.
(b) Any grant funds not used in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must be used for the benefit of very-low income families.

# Subpart G—Project Requirements
§ 93.300
Maximum per-unit development subsidy amount, underwriting, and subsidy layering.
(a)
Maximum per-unit development subsidy amount.
The grantee must establish maximum limitations on the total amount of HTF funds that the grantee may invest per-unit for development of non-luxury housing, with adjustments for the number of bedrooms and the geographic location of the project. These limits must be reasonable and based on actual costs of developing non-luxury housing in the area. The grantee must include these limits in its consolidated plan and update these limits annually.
(b)
Underwriting and subsidy layering.
Before committing funds to a project, the grantee must evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it has adopted for determining a reasonable level of profit or return on recipient's investment in a project and must not invest any more HTF funds, alone
or in combination with other governmental assistance, than is necessary to provide quality affordable housing that is financially viable for a reasonable period (at minimum, the period of affordability in § 93.302 or § 93.304) and that will not provide a profit or return on the recipient's investment that exceeds the grantee's established standards for the size, type, and complexity of the project. The guidelines adopted by the grantees must require the grantee to undertake:
(1) An examination of the sources and uses of funds for the project (including any operating cost assistance, operating cost assistance reserve, or project-based rental assistance that will be provided to the project) and a determination that the costs are reasonable; and
(2) An assessment, at minimum, of the current market demand in the neighborhood in which the project will be located, the experience of the recipient, the financial capacity of the recipient, and firm written financial commitments for the project.
(3) For HTF-funded downpayment assistance, a market analysis is not required.
§ 93.301
Property standards.
(a)
New construction projects.
(1) State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements. Housing that is newly constructed with HTF funds must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements. HTF-assisted new construction projects must meet State or local residential and building codes, as applicable or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable to the type of housing) of the International Code Council. The housing must meet the applicable requirements upon project completion.
(2)
HUD requirements.
All new construction projects must also meet the requirements described in this paragraph:
(i)
Accessibility.
The housing must meet the accessibility requirements of 24 CFR part 8, which implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. “Covered multifamily dwellings,” as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619).
(ii)
Energy efficiency.
The housing must meet the energy efficiency standards established pursuant to section 109 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12709).
(iii)
Disaster mitigation.
Where relevant, the housing must be constructed to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (
e.g.,
earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires), in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, or other State and local requirements, or such other requirements as HUD may establish.
(iv)
Written cost estimates, construction contracts, and construction documents.
The grantee must ensure the construction contract(s) and construction documents describe the work to be undertaken in adequate detail so that inspections can be conducted. The grantee must review and approve written cost estimates for construction and determine that costs are reasonable.
(v)
Construction progress inspections.
The grantee must conduct progress and final inspections of construction to ensure that work is done in accordance with the applicable codes, the construction contract, and construction documents.
(vi)
Broadband infrastructure.
For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a new construction housing project of a building with more than 4 rental units, the construction must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the grantee determines and, in accordance with § 93.407(a)(2)(iv), documents the determination that:
(A) The location of the new construction makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible; or
(B) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden.
(b)
Rehabilitation projects.
All rehabilitation that is performed using HTF funds must meet the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(1)
Rehabilitation standards.
The grantee must establish rehabilitation standards for all HTF-assisted housing rehabilitation activities that set forth the requirements that the housing must meet upon project completion. The grantee's description of its standards must be in sufficient detail to determine the required rehabilitation work including methods and materials. The standards may refer to applicable codes or they may establish requirements that exceed the minimum requirements of the codes. The rehabilitation standards must address each of the following:
(i)
Health and safety.
The grantee's standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that must be addressed immediately if the housing is occupied.
(ii)
Major systems.
Major systems are: structural support; roofing; cladding and weatherproofing (
e.g.,
windows, doors, siding, gutters); plumbing; electrical; and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning. For rental housing, the grantee's standards must require the grantee to estimate (based on age and condition) the remaining useful life of these systems, upon project completion of each major system. For multifamily housing projects of 26 units or more, the grantee's standards must require the grantee to determine the useful life of major systems through a capital needs assessment of the project. For rental housing, if the remaining useful life of one or more major system is less than the applicable period of affordability, the grantee's standards must require the grantee to ensure that a replacement reserve is established and monthly payments are made to the reserve that are adequate to repair or replace the systems as needed. For homeownership housing, the grantee's standards must require, upon project completion, each of the major systems to have a remaining useful life for a minimum of 5 years or for such longer period specified by grantee, or the major systems must be rehabilitated or replaced as part of the rehabilitation work.
(iii)
Lead-based paint.
The grantee's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-based paint requirements at 24 CFR part 35.
(iv)
Accessibility.
The grantee's standards must require the housing to meet the accessibility requirements in 24 CFR part 8, which implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. “Covered multifamily dwellings,” as defined at 24 CFR 100.201, must also meet the design and construction requirements at 24 CFR 100.205, which implements the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619). Rehabilitation may include improvements that are not required by regulation or statute that permit use by a person with disabilities.
(v) [Reserved].
(vi)
Disaster mitigation.
Where relevant, the grantee's standards must require the housing to be improved to mitigate the impact of potential disasters (
e.g.,
earthquake, hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires) in accordance with State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements, or such other requirements as HUD may establish.
(vii)
State and local codes, ordinances, and zoning requirements.
The grantee's standards must require the housing to meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Existing Building Code of the International Code Council.
(viii)
Housing standards.
The standards of the grantee must be such that, upon completion, the HTF-assisted project and units will be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. This means that the HTF-assisted project and units will meet the standards in 24 CFR 5.703, except that the carbon monoxide detection requirement at 24 CFR 5.703(b)(2) and (d)(6) shall not apply. For all HTF-assisted projects and units, the requirements at 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply. At minimum, the grantee's rehabilitation standards must require correction of the specific deficiencies published in
the
Federal Register
for HTF-assisted projects and units. For SRO housing, the requirements at 24 CFR 5.703(d) shall only apply to the extent that the SRO unit contains the room or facility referenced in 24 CFR 5.703(d).
(ix)
Capital Needs Assessments.
For multifamily rental housing projects of 26 or more total units, the grantee must determine all work that will be performed in the rehabilitation of the housing and the long-term physical needs of the project through a capital needs assessment of the project.
(x)
Broadband infrastructure.
For new commitments made after January 19, 2017 for a substantial rehabilitation project of a building with more than 4 rental units, any substantial rehabilitation, as defined in 24 CFR 5.100, must provide for installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the grantee determines and, in accordance with § 93.407(a)(2)(iv), documents the determination that:
(A) The location of the substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;
(B) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or
(C) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.
(2)
Construction documents and cost estimates.
The grantee must ensure that the work to be undertaken will meet the grantee's rehabilitation standards. The construction documents (
i.e.,
written scope of work to be performed) must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of the housing to determine compliance with the grantee's standards. The grantee must review and approve a written cost estimate for rehabilitation after determining that costs are reasonable.
(3)
Frequency of inspections.
The grantee must conduct an initial property inspection to identify the deficiencies that must be addressed. The grantee must conduct progress and final inspections to determine that work was done in accordance with work write-ups.
(c)
Acquisition of standard housing.
(1) Existing housing that is acquired with HTF assistance for rental housing, and that was newly constructed or rehabilitated less than 12 months before the date of commitment of HTF funds, must meet the property standards of paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, for new construction and rehabilitation projects. The grantee must document this compliance based upon a review of approved building plans and Certificates of Occupancy, and an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 calendar days before the date of commitment of HTF assistance.
(2) All other existing housing that is acquired with HTF assistance for rental housing must meet the rehabilitation property standards requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The grantee must document this compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 calendar days before the date of commitment of HTF assistance. If the property does not meet these standards, HTF funds cannot be used to acquire the property unless it is rehabilitated to meet the standards of paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Existing housing that is acquired for homeownership (e.g., down payment assistance) must be decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The grantee must establish standards to determine that the housing is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. At minimum, the standards must provide that the housing meets all applicable State and local standards and code requirements, and the housing does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the
Federal Register
for HTF-assisted projects and units. The grantee must inspect the housing and document compliance based upon an inspection that is conducted no earlier than 90 calendar days before the date of commitment of HTF assistance. If the housing does not meet these standards, the housing must be rehabilitated to meet the standards of this paragraph or it cannot be assisted with HTF funds.
(d)
Manufactured housing.
Construction of all manufactured housing (including manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction”) must meet the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards codified at 24 CFR part 3280. These standards preempt State and local codes which are not identical to the Federal standards for the new construction of manufactured housing. The grantees providing HTF funds to assist manufactured housing units must comply with applicable State and local laws or codes. In the absence of such laws or codes, the installation must comply with the manufacturer's written instructions for installation of manufactured housing units. All new manufactured housing and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction” must be on a permanent foundation that meets the requirements for foundation systems as set forth in 24 CFR 203.43f(c)(i). All new manufactured housing (and all manufactured housing that replaces an existing substandard unit under the definition of “reconstruction”) must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing unit owner or land for which the manufactured housing owner has a lease for a period at least equal to the applicable period of affordability. In HTF-funded rehabilitation of existing manufactured housing the foundation and anchoring must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, and requirements or in the absence of local or State codes, the Model Manufactured Home Installation Standards at 24 CFR part 3285. Manufactured housing that is rehabilitated using HTF funds must meet the property standards requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable. The grantee must document this compliance in accordance with inspection procedures that the grantee has established pursuant to § 92.301, as applicable.
(e)
Ongoing property condition standards: Rental housing
—(1)
Ongoing property standards.
The grantee must establish property standards for rental housing (including manufactured housing) that apply throughout the affordability period. The standards must require that owners maintain the housing as decent, safe, sanitary and in good repair. The grantee's description of its property standards must be in sufficient detail to establish the basis for a uniform inspection of HTF rental projects. The grantee's ongoing property standards must address each of the following:
(i)
Minimum Property Standards.
At a minimum, the grantee's ongoing property standards must provide that the property does not contain the specific deficiencies established by HUD based on the applicable standards in 24 CFR 5.703 and published in the
Federal Register
for rental housing (including manufactured housing). The requirements in 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply to the grantee's ongoing property standards.
(ii)
Health and safety.
The grantee's standards must require the housing to be free of all health and safety defects. The standards must identify life-threatening deficiencies that the owner must immediately correct and the time frames for addressing these deficiencies.
(iii)
Lead-based paint.
The grantee's standards must require the housing to meet the lead-based paint requirements in 24 CFR part 35.
(2)
Inspections.
The grantee must undertake ongoing property inspections, in accordance with § 93.404.
(3)
Corrective and remedial actions.
The grantee must have procedures for ensuring that timely corrective and remedial actions are taken by the project owner to address identified deficiencies.
(4)
Inspection procedures.
The grantee must establish written inspection procedures. The procedures must include detailed inspection checklists, description of how and by whom inspections will be carried out, and procedures for training and certifying qualified inspectors. The procedures must also describe how frequently the property will be inspected, consistent with section § 93.404(d).
(f)
Environmental provisions
—(1)
New construction projects environmental requirements
—(i)
Historic preservation
—(A)
Standards.
The project activities (including demolition) must not be performed on properties that are either listed in or determined eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, unless the project activities meet the
Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation,
either as certified through the Federal and/or State historic rehabilitation tax credit programs or as verified by someone that meets the relevant
Secretary of the Interior's Professional Qualification Standards;
(B)
Archaeological resources.
If archaeological resources or human remains are discovered on the project site during construction, the grantee must consult with affected tribes and/or descendant communities and comply with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001-3013), State law and/or local ordinance (
e.g.,
State unmarked burial law).
(ii)
Farmland.
Project activities must not result in the conversion of unique, prime, or statewide or locally significant agricultural properties to urban uses.
(iii)
Airport zones.
Projects are not permitted within the runway protection zones of civilian airports, or the clear zones or accident potential zones of military airfields.
(iv)
Coastal Barrier Resource System.
No projects may be assisted in Coastal Barrier Resource System (CBRS) units. CBRS units are mapped and available from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(v)
Coastal zone management.
Development must be consistent with the appropriate State coastal zone management plan. Plans are available from the local coastal zone management agency.
(vi)
Floodplains.
Except as modified below, definitions for terms used below can be found at 24 CFR part 55.
(A) Construction and other activities in the 100-year floodplain are to be avoided when practicable. If there are no practicable alternatives to new construction or substantial improvement in the 100-year floodplain, the structure must be elevated at least the base flood elevation (BFE) or floodproofed to one foot above the BFE. Elevated and floodproofed buildings must adhere to National Flood Insurance Program standards. The primary sources of floodplain data are Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs). When FEMA provides interim flood hazard data, such as Advisory Base Flood Elevations (ABFE) or preliminary maps or studies, the latest of these sources shall be used.
(B) No HTF assistance may be approved with respect to:
(
1
) Any action, other than a functionally dependent use, located in a floodway;
(
2
) Any new construction critical action located in a coastal high hazard area, 100- or 500-year floodplain; or
(
3
) Any non-critical new construction action in a coastal high hazard area, unless the action is reconstruction following destruction caused by a disaster and is designed for location in a coastal high hazard area consistent with the FEMA National Flood Insurance Program requirements for V-Zones.
(vii)
Wetlands.
(A) No draining, dredging, channelizing, filling, diking, impounding, or related grading activities are to be performed in wetlands. No activities, structures, or facilities funded under this program are to adversely impact a wetland.
(B) A wetland means those areas that are inundated by surface or ground water with a frequency sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances, does or would support a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires saturated or seasonally saturated soil conditions for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and natural ponds. This definition includes those wetland areas separated from their natural supply of water as a result of activities, such as the construction of structural flood protection methods or solid-fill road beds, or mineral extraction and navigation improvements. This definition is independent of the definition of jurisdictional wetland used by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
).
(viii)
Explosives and hazards.
Projects must be in compliance with the standards for acceptable separation distance, as set forth at 24 CFR part 51, subpart C.
(ix)
Contamination.
All properties assisted with HTF funds must be free of hazardous materials, contamination, toxic chemicals and gases, and radioactive substances, where a hazard could affect the health and safety of occupants or conflict with the intended use of the property.
(A) All proposed multifamily (more than four housing units) HTF projects require a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA-ASTM). If the Phase I ESA identifies recognized environmental concerns (RECs), a Phase II (ESA-ASTM) will be required. ASTM reports shall be prepared in accordance with the most current ASTM standard. Single family housing does not require a Phase I ESA.
(B) HTF projects must avoid sites located within 0.25 miles of a Superfund or CERCLIS (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Information System) site or other contaminated site reported to Federal, State, or local authorities without a statement in writing from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the appropriate State agency that there is no hazard that could affect the health and safety of the occupants or conflict with the intended use of the property.
(x)
Noise.
(A) Internal noise levels: All activities will be developed to ensure an interior noise level of no more than 45 decibels (dB).
(B) External noise levels:
(
1
) Project sites exposed to less than or equal to 65 dB of environmental noise are acceptable.
(
2
) Sites between 65 dB and less than 75 dB are acceptable with mitigation (
e.g.,
noise walls, careful site planning) that result in an interior standard of 45 dB.
(
3
) Locations with environmental noise levels of 75 dB or greater may not have noise sensitive outdoor uses (
e.g.,
picnic areas, tot lots, balconies, or patios) and
require
sound attenuation in the building shell to achieve the 45 dB interior standard.
(xi)
Endangered species.
The grantee must avoid all actions which could jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species, as designated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or National Marine Fisheries Service, or would result in the destruction or adversely modify the designated critical habitat of such species.
(xii)
Wild and scenic rivers.
The grantee must avoid activities that are inconsistent with conservation easements, land-use protections, and restrictions adjacent to wild and scenic rivers, as designated/listed by the Departments of Agriculture or Interior. Maps for the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System are available at the governing departments.
(xiii)
Safe drinking water.
Projects with a potable water system must use only lead-free pipes, solder, and flux.
(xiv)
Sole-source aquifers.
Project activities should avoid sites and activities that have the potential to contaminate sole source aquifer areas (SSAs). EPA defines a sole or principal source aquifer as an aquifer that supplies at least 50 percent of the drinking water consumed in the area overlying the aquifer. If the project overlies an SSA, EPA must review the project. EPA review is designed to reduce the risk of ground water contamination that could pose a health hazard to those who use it.
(2)
Rehabilitation projects environmental requirements
—(i)
Historic preservation.
(A) The project activities (including demolition) must not be performed on properties that are either listed in or determined eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, unless the project activities meet the
Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation,
either as certified through the Federal and/or State historic rehabilitation tax credit programs or as verified by someone that meets the relevant
Secretary of the Interior's Professional Qualification Standards;
(B)
Archaeological resources.
If archaeological resources or human remains are discovered on the project site during construction or rehabilitation, the grantee must consult with affected tribes and/or descendant communities
and comply with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001-3013), State law, and/or local ordinance (
e.g.,
State unmarked burial law).
(ii)
Farmland.
Project activities must not result in the conversion of unique, prime, or locally significant agricultural properties to urban uses.
(iii)
Airport zones.
Projects are not permitted within the runway protection zones of civilian airports, or the clear zones or accident potential zones of military airfields.
(iv)
Coastal Barrier Resource System.
No projects may be assisted in Coastal Barrier Resource System (CBRS) units. CBRS units are mapped and available from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(v)
Coastal zone management.
Development must be consistent with the appropriate State coastal zone management plan. Plans are available from the local coastal zone management agency.
(vi)
Floodplains.
Except as modified below, definitions for terms used below can be found at 24 CFR part 55.
(A) Construction and other activities in the 100-year floodplain are to be avoided when practicable. If there are no practicable alternatives to new construction or substantial improvement in the 100-year floodplain, the structure must be elevated at least to the base flood elevation (BFE) or floodproofed to one foot above the BFE. Elevated and floodproofed buildings must adhere to National Flood Insurance Program standards. The primary sources of floodplain data are Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS). When FEMA provides interim flood hazard data, such as Advisory Base Flood Elevations (ABFE) or preliminary maps or studies, the latest of these sources shall be used.
(B) No HTF assistance may be approved with respect to:
(
1
) Any action, other than functionally dependent uses, located in a floodway;
(
2
) Any critical action located in a coastal high hazard area, 100- or 500-year floodplain; or
(
3
) Any non-critical action located in a coastal high hazard area, unless the action is designed for location in a coastal high hazard area consistent with the FEMA National Flood Insurance Program requirements for V-Zones. “Any non-critical action in a coastal high hazard area, unless the action is reconstruction following destruction caused by a disaster and is designed for location in a coastal high hazard area consistent with the FEMA National Flood Insurance Program requirements for V-Zones.”
(vii)
Wetlands.
No rehabilitation of existing properties that expands the footprint into a wetland is allowed. A wetland means those areas that are inundated by surface or ground water with a frequency sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances, does or would support a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires saturated or seasonally saturated soil conditions for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and natural ponds. This definition includes those wetland areas separated from their natural supply of water as a result of activities such as the construction of structural flood protection methods or solid-fill road beds and activities such as mineral extraction and navigation improvements. This definition is independent of the definition of jurisdictional wetland used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
).
(viii)
Explosives and hazards.
If the rehabilitation of the building increases the number of dwelling units, then the project must be in compliance with the standards for acceptable separation distance as set forth at 24 CFR part 51, subpart C.
(ix)
Contamination.
All properties assisted with HTF funds must be free of hazardous materials, contamination, toxic chemicals and gases, and radioactive substances, where a hazard could affect the health and safety of occupants or conflict with the intended use of the property:
(A) All proposed multifamily (more than four housing units) HTF project activities require a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA—ASTM).
If the Phase I ESA identifies recognized environmental concerns (RECs), a Phase II (ESA-ASTM) will be required. ASTM reports shall be prepared in accordance with the most current ASTM standard. Single family housing does not require a Phase I ESA.
(B) HTF projects must avoid sites located within 0.25 miles of a Superfund or CERCLIS (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Information System) site or other contaminated site reported to Federal, State, or local authorities without a statement in writing from EPA or the appropriate State agency that there is no hazard that could affect the health and safety of the occupants or conflict with the intended utilization of the property.
(x)
Noise
—(A)
Internal noise levels.
All activities will be developed to ensure an interior noise level of no more than45 decibels (dB).
(B) [Reserved].
(xi)
Endangered species.
(A) The grantee must avoid all actions that could jeopardize the continued existence of any species designated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or National Marine Fisheries Service as endangered or threatened.
(B) The grantee must avoid all actions that adversely modify the critical habitat of such species.
(xii)
Wild and scenic rivers.
The grantee must avoid activities that are inconsistent with conservation easements, land-use protections, and restrictions adjacent to wild and scenic rivers, as designated/listed by the Departments of Agriculture and Interior. Maps for the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System are available at the governing departments.
(xiii)
Safe drinking water.
Projects with a potable water system must use only lead-free pipes, solder, and flux.
(xiv)
Sole-source aquifers.
Project activities should avoid sites and activities that have the potential to contaminate sole source aquifer areas (SSAs). The EPA defines a sole or principal source aquifer as an aquifer that supplies at least 50 percent of the drinking water consumed in the area overlying the aquifer. If the project overlies an SSA, the EPA must review the project. The EPA review is designed to reduce the risk of ground water contamination, which could pose a health hazard to those who use it.
(3)
Acquisition projects environmental requirements.
(i)(A) Existing housing that is acquired with HTF funds, and has been newly constructed or rehabilitated less than 12 months before the commitment of HTF funds must meet the property standards at paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(B) All other existing housing that is acquired with HTF assistance must meet the property standards requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(ii) If under paragraph (f)(3)(i)(A) or paragraph (B) of this section, the property does not meet these standards, with the exception of the noise standards in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, HTF funds cannot be used to acquire the property.
(4)
Manufactured housing environmental requirements.
Manufactured housing is subject to the environmental standards in paragraph (f)(1) of this section for new construction or paragraph (f)(2) of this section for rehabilitation, as applicable. If an existing property does not meet these standards, HTF funds cannot be used to acquire the property unless it is rehabilitated to meet the standards in paragraph (f)(2), as applicable, with the exception of noise standards in paragraph (f)(2)(x).
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 92636, Dec. 20, 2016; 88 FR 30497, May 11, 2023]
§ 93.302
Qualification as affordable housing: rental housing.
(a)
Eligible tenants.
The HTF-assisted units in a rental housing project must be occupied by households who are eligible families in accordance with the income targeting requirements in § 93.250.
(b)
Rent limitations
—(1)(i)
Extremely low-income tenants.
The HTF rent plus utilities of an extremely low-income tenant shall not exceed the greater of 30 percent of the federal poverty line or 30 percent of the income of a family whose annual income equals 30 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for the number of bedrooms in the unit.
HUD will publish the HTF rent limits on an annual basis.
(ii)
Very-low income tenants.
The HTF rent plus utilities of a very low-income tenant shall not exceed 30 percent of the income of a family whose annual income equals 50 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for the number of bedrooms in the unit. HUD will publish the HTF rent limits on an annual basis.
(2) If the unit receives Federal or State project-based rental subsidy, and the tenant pays as a contribution toward rent not more than 30 percent of the tenant's adjusted income, the maximum rent is the rent allowable under the Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program.
(c)
Initial rent schedule and utility allowance.
(1) The grantee must establish maximum monthly allowances for utilities and services (excluding telephone, television, and Internet service).
(2) The grantee must annually review and approve rents proposed by the owner for HTF units. For all units for which the tenant is paying utilities, the grantee must ensure that the rents do not exceed the maximum rent minus the monthly allowances for utilities.
(d)
Periods of affordability.
(1) HTF-assisted units must meet the affordability requirements for not less than 30 years, beginning after project completion. The grantee may impose longer periods.
(2) The affordability requirements apply without regard to the term of any loan or mortgage, repayment of the HTF investment, or the transfer of ownership. They must be imposed by a deed restriction, covenant running with the land, an agreement restricting the use of the property, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the grantee and beneficiaries have the right to require specific performance, except that the affordability restrictions may terminate upon foreclosure or transfer in lieu of foreclosure. The affordability requirements must be recorded in accordance with State recordation laws.
(3) The grantee may use purchase options, rights of first refusal, or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure to preserve affordability.
(4) The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in the project or property.
(5) The termination of the restrictions on the project does not terminate the grantee's repayment obligation under § 93.403.
(e)
Tenant income.
(1) The income of each tenant must be determined initially in accordance with § 93.151. In addition, in each year during the period of affordability, the project owner must re-examine each tenant's annual income in accordance with one of the options in § 93.151(d) selected by the grantee.
(2) An owner who re-examines a tenant's annual income through a statement and certification in accordance with § 93.151(d)(2) must examine the source documentation of the income of each tenant every 6th year of the affordability period unless the tenant or unit is assisted under the public housing program, Federal or State project-based rental assistance program, or a Federal tenant-based rental assistance program (
e.g.,
housing choice voucher assistance, HOME tenant-based rental assistance, etc.). For families or units that receive assistance under the public housing program, a Federal or State project-based rental subsidy program, or Federal tenant-based rental assistance program, the grantee must accept the calculation of a tenant's annual and adjusted income in accordance with the rules of those programs pursuant to § 93.151(a)(1) through (3). Otherwise, an owner who accepts the tenant's statement and certification in accordance with § 93.151(d)(2) is not required to examine the income of tenants unless there is evidence that the tenant's written statement failed to completely and accurately state information about the family's size or income.
(f)
Over-income tenants.
HTF-assisted units continue to qualify as affordable
housing despite a temporary noncompliance caused by increases in the incomes of existing tenants if actions satisfactory to HUD are being taken to ensure that all vacancies are filled in accordance with this section until the noncompliance is corrected.
(g)
Fixed and floating HTF units.
In a project containing HTF-assisted and other units, the grantee may designate fixed or floating HTF units. This designation must be made at the time of project commitment in the written agreement between the grantee and the recipient, and the HTF units must be identified not later than the time of project completion. Fixed units must remain the same throughout the period of affordability. Floating units must be changed to maintain conformity with the requirements of this section during the period of affordability so that the total number of housing units meeting the requirements of this section remains the same, and each substituted unit must be comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms to the originally designated HTF-assisted unit.
(h)
Tenant selection.
The tenants must be selected in accordance with § 93.303.
(i)
Onsite inspections and financial oversight.
See § 93.404(d) for the grantee's ongoing responsibilities for onsite inspections and financial oversight.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 9665, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 93.303
Tenant protections and selection.
(a)
Lease.
There must be a written lease between the tenant and the owner of rental housing assisted with HTF funds that is for a period of not less than one year, unless by mutual agreement between the tenant and the owner a shorter period is specified. The lease must incorporate the VAWA lease term/addendum required under § 93.356(d).
(b)
Prohibited lease terms.
The lease may not contain any of the following provisions:
(1)
Agreement to be sued.
Agreement by the tenant to be sued, to admit guilt, or to a judgment in favor of the owner in a lawsuit brought in connection with the lease;
(2)
Treatment of property.
Agreement by the tenant that the owner may take, hold, or sell personal property of household members without notice to the tenant and a court decision on the rights of the parties. This prohibition, however, does not apply to an agreement by the tenant concerning disposition of personal property remaining in the housing unit after the tenant has moved out of the unit. The owner may dispose of this personal property in accordance with State law;
(3)
Excusing owner from responsibility.
Agreement by the tenant not to hold the owner or the owner's agents legally responsible for any action or failure to act, whether intentional or negligent;
(4)
Waiver of notice.
Agreement of the tenant that the owner may institute a lawsuit without notice to the tenant;
(5)
Waiver of legal proceedings.
Agreement by the tenant that the owner may evict the tenant or household members without instituting a civil court proceeding in which the tenant has the opportunity to present a defense, or before a court decision on the rights of the parties;
(6)
Waiver of a jury trial.
Agreement by the tenant to waive any right to a trial by jury;
(7)
Waiver of right to appeal court decision.
Agreement by the tenant to waive the tenant's right to appeal, or to otherwise challenge in court, a court decision in connection with the lease;
(8)
Tenant chargeable with cost of legal actions regardless of outcome.
Agreement by the tenant to pay attorney's fees or other legal costs even if the tenant wins in a court proceeding by the owner against the tenant. The tenant, however, may be obligated to pay costs if the tenant loses; and
(9)
Mandatory supportive services.
Agreement by the tenant to accept supportive services that are offered.
(c)
Termination of tenancy.
An owner may not terminate the tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant of rental housing assisted with HTF funds, except for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease; for violation of applicable Federal, State, or local law; or for other good cause. Good cause does not include an increase in the tenant's income. To terminate or refuse to renew
tenancy, the owner must serve written notice upon the tenant specifying the grounds for the action and providing a specific period for vacating that is consistent with State or local law.
(d)
Tenant selection.
An owner of rental housing assisted with HTF funds must comply with the affirmative marketing requirements established by the grantee pursuant to § 93.350. The owner must adopt and follow written tenant selection policies and criteria that:
(1) Limit the housing to income-eligible families;
(2) Are reasonably related to the applicants' ability to perform the obligations of the lease (
i.e.,
to pay the rent, not to damage the housing; not to interfere with the rights and quiet enjoyment of other tenants);
(3) Limit eligibility or give a preference to a particular segment of the population if permitted in its written agreement with the grantee (and only if the limitation or preference is described in the grantee's consolidated plan).
(i) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in § 93.350. A limitation or preference does not violate nondiscrimination requirements if the housing also receives funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population (
e.g.,
the Housing Opportunity for Persons With AIDS program under 24 CFR part 574), and the limit or preference is tailored to serve that segment of the population.
(ii) If a project does not receive funding from a Federal program that limits eligibility to a particular segment of the population, the project may have a limitation or preference for persons with disabilities who need services offered at a project only if:
(A) The limitation or preference is limited to the population of families (including individuals) with disabilities that significantly interfere with their ability to obtain and maintain housing;
(B) Such families will not be able to obtain or maintain themselves in housing without appropriate supportive services; and
(C) Such services cannot be provided in a nonsegregated setting. The families must not be required to accept the services offered at the project. In advertising the project, the owner may advertise the project as offering services for a particular type of disability; however, the project must be open to all otherwise eligible persons with disabilities who may benefit from the services provided in the project.
(4) Do not exclude an applicant with a voucher under the Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance: Housing Choice Voucher program (24 CFR part 982) or an applicant participating in a HOME tenant-based rental assistance program (24 CFR part 92) because of the status of the prospective tenant as a holder of such voucher or comparable HOME tenant-based assistance document.
(5) Provide for the selection of tenants from a written waiting list in the chronological order of their application, insofar as is practicable;
(6) Give prompt written notification to any rejected applicant of the grounds for any rejection; and
(7) Comply with the VAWA requirements prescribed in § 93.356.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 80805, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 93.304
Qualification as affordable housing: Homeownership.
(a)
Homeownership activities.
Housing that is for purchase by a first-time homebuyer must meet the affordability requirements of this section.
(b)
Single family housing.
The housing must be single-family housing, as defined at § 93.2.
(c)
Modest housing.
The housing must be modest housing, in accordance with § 93.305.
(d)
First-time homebuyer and income requirements.
The housing must be acquired by a first-time homebuyer whose family qualifies as an income-eligible family in accordance with § 93.251 and the housing must be the principal residence of the family throughout the period described in paragraph (e) of this section. In determining the income eligibility of the family, the grantee must include the income of all persons living in the housing. Before purchasing the housing, the family must have completed a program of independent financial education and homeownership counseling from an eligible organization that has been certified in
accordance with section 106(e) of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701x (e)).
(e)
Period of affordability.
The HTF-assisted housing must meet the affordability requirements for not less than 30 years.
(f)
Resale or recapture requirements.
The grantee must establish the resale or recapture requirements that comply with the standards of § 93.305 and set forth the requirements in its consolidated plan. HUD must determine that they are appropriate and must specifically approve them in writing.
(g)
Special considerations for single family properties with more than one unit.
(1) If the HTF funds are used only to assist an income-eligible homebuyer in acquiring one unit in a single family property containing more than one unit and the assisted unit will be the principal residence of the homebuyer, the affordability requirements of this section apply only to the assisted unit.
(2) If HTF funds are also used to assist the income-eligible homebuyer in acquiring one or more of the rental units in the single family property, the affordability requirements of § 93.302 apply to assisted rental units, except that the grantee must impose resale restrictions on all assisted units (owner-occupied and rental units) in the single-family housing. The affordability requirements on all assisted units continue for the period of affordability. If HTF funds are used to assist only the rental units in such a property, then the requirements of § 93.302 would apply and the owner-occupied unit would not be subject to the income targeting or affordability provisions of this section.
(h)
Lease-purchase.
(1) HTF funds may be used to assist homebuyers through lease-purchase programs for existing housing and for housing to be constructed. The housing must be purchased by an eligible homebuyer within 36 months of signing the lease-purchase agreement. The homebuyer must qualify as an income-eligible family at the time the lease-purchase agreement is signed.
(2) If HTF funds are used to acquire housing that will be resold to a homebuyer through a lease-purchase program, the HTF affordability requirements for rental housing in § 93.302 shall apply if the housing is not transferred to an eligible homebuyer within 42 months after project completion.
(i)
Contract to purchase.
If HTF funds are used to assist a homebuyer who has entered into a contract to purchase housing to be constructed, the homebuyer must qualify as an income-eligible family at the time the contract is signed.
(j) If there is no ratified sales contract with an eligible homebuyer for the housing within 9 months of the date of completion of construction or rehabilitation, the housing must be rented to an eligible tenant in accordance with § 93.301.
(k)
Preserving affordability.
(1) To preserve the affordability of housing that was previously assisted with HTF funds and subject to the requirements of this section, a grantee may use additional HTF funds to acquire the housing through a purchase option, right of first refusal, or other preemptive right before foreclosure, or to acquire the housing at the foreclosure sale, undertake any necessary rehabilitation, and provide assistance to another first-time homebuyer. The housing must be sold to a new eligible homebuyer in accordance with the requirements of this section. Additional HTF funds may not be used if the mortgage in default was funded with HTF funds.
(2) The total amount of original and additional HTF assistance may not exceed the maximum per-unit development subsidy amount established pursuant to § 93.300. As an alternative to charging the cost to the HTF program under § 93.201, the grantee may charge the cost to the HTF program under § 93.302 as a reasonable administrative cost of its HTF program, so that the additional HTF funds for the housing are not subject to the maximum per-unit subsidy amount.
(l)
Agreements with lending institutions.
(1) The grantee may provide homeownership assistance through written agreements with for-profit or nonprofit lending institutions that are providing the first mortgage loan to a family. The grantee must independently verify that the family is income-eligible and meets the definition of
“first-time homebuyer,” and must inspect the housing for compliance with the applicable property standards.
(2) No fees may be charged to the family for the HTF homeownership assistance (
e.g.,
origination fees or points, processing fees, inspection fees). The grantee must determine that the fees and other amounts charged to the family by the lender for the first mortgage financing are reasonable. Reasonable administrative costs of the HTF homeownership assistance can be charged to the HTF program as a project cost. If the grantee requires lenders to pay a fee to participate in the HTF program, the fee is program income to the HTF program.
(m)
Written policies.
The grantee must have and follow written policies for:
(1) Underwriting standards for homeownership assistance that examine the family's housing debt, overall debt, income, and ability to maintain the housing;
(2) Anti-predatory lending; and
(3) Refinancing loans to which HTF loans are subordinated to ensure that the terms of the new loan are reasonable.
§ 93.305
Qualification as affordable housing: modest housing requirements for homeownership; resale or recapture requirements.
(a) Housing that is for acquisition by a family pursuant to § 93.304 must be modest housing.
(1) The housing must be modest housing as follows: The housing has a purchase price for the type of single family housing that does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area for newly constructed or standard housing. The grantee must use the HTF affordable homeownership limits provided by HUD for newly constructed housing and for existing housing. HUD will provide limits for affordable newly constructed housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using Federal Housing Administration (FHA) single family mortgage program data for newly constructed housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the U.S. median purchase price for new construction for nonmetropolitan areas. HUD will provide limits for affordable existing housing based on 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area using FHA single family mortgage program data for existing housing data and other appropriate data that are available nation-wide for sales of existing housing, with a minimum limit based on 95 percent of the state-wide nonmetropolitan area median purchase price using these data. For States with no non-metropolitan areas, the minimum purchase price is defined as the lesser of the State non-metro or the United States non-metro median.
(2) In lieu of the limits provided by HUD, the grantee may determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price for single family housing in the jurisdiction annually, as follows: The grantee must set forth the price for different types of single family housing for the jurisdiction. The grantee may determine separate limits for existing housing and newly constructed housing. For housing located outside of metropolitan areas, a grantee may aggregate sales data from more than one county, if the counties are contiguous and similarly situated. The following information must be included in the annual action plan of the consolidated plan submitted to HUD for review and updated in each action plan:
(i) The 95 percent of median area purchase price must be established in accordance with a market analysis that ensured that a sufficient number of recent housing sales are included in the survey.
(ii) Sales must cover the requisite number of months based on volume: For 500 or more sales per month, a one- month reporting period; for 250 through 499 sales per month, a 2-month reporting period; for less than 250 sales per month, at least a 3-month reporting period. The data must be listed in ascending order of sales price.
(iii) The address of the listed properties must include the location within the grantee. Lot, square, and subdivision data may be substituted for the street address.
(iv) The housing sales data must reflect all, or nearly all, of the one- family house sales in the entire area.
(v) To determine the median, take the middle sale on the list if an odd number of sales, and if an even number,
take the higher of the middle numbers and consider it the median. After identifying the median sales price, the amount should be multiplied by 0.95 to determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price.
(b)
Resale or recapture requirements.
The grantee must establish the resale or recapture requirements that comply with the standards of this section and set forth the requirements in its consolidated plan. The HTF-assisted housing must meet the affordability requirements for not less than 30 years if resale restrictions are used. If recapture restrictions are used, the affordability periods are based on the amount of HTF funds per unit as follows:
Homeownership
assistance HTF amount per-unit
Minimum period of affordability in years
Under $30,000
10
$30,000-$50,000
20
Over $50,000
30
(1)
Resale.
Resale requirements must ensure, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability, that the housing is made available for subsequent purchase only to a buyer whose family qualifies as a very low-income family and will use the property as the family's principal residence. The resale requirement must also ensure that the price at resale provides the original HTF-assisted owner a fair return on investment (including the homeowner's investment and any capital improvement) and ensure that the housing will remain affordable to a reasonable range of income-eligible homebuyers. The grantee must specifically define “fair return on investment” and “affordability to a reasonable range of very low-income homebuyers,” and specifically address how it will make the housing affordable to an income eligible homebuyer in the event that the resale price necessary to provide fair return is not affordable to the subsequent buyer. Deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other mechanisms approved by HUD must be used as the mechanism to impose the resale requirements. The affordability restrictions may terminate upon occurrence of any of the following termination events: foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure, or assignment of an FHA insured mortgage to HUD. The grantee may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the termination event, obtains an ownership interest in the housing.
(2)
Recapture.
(i) Recapture provisions must ensure that the grantee recoups all or a portion of the HTF assistance to the homebuyers, if the housing does not continue to be the principal residence of the family for the duration of the period of affordability. The grantee may structure its recapture provisions based on its program design and market conditions. Recapture provisions may permit the subsequent homebuyer to assume the HTF assistance (subject to the HTF requirements for the remainder of the period of affordability) if the subsequent homebuyer is income-eligible, and no additional HTF assistance is provided.
(ii) The following options for recapture requirements are acceptable to HUD. The grantee may adopt, modify, or develop its own recapture requirements for HUD approval. In establishing its recapture requirements, the grantee is subject to the limitation that, when the recapture requirement is triggered by a sale (voluntary or involuntary) of the housing unit, the amount recaptured cannot exceed the net proceeds, if any. The net proceeds are the sales price minus superior loan repayment (other than HTF funds) and any closing costs.
(A)
Recapture entire amount.
The grantee may recapture the entire amount of the HTF assistance from the homeowner.
(B)
Reduction during affordability period.
The grantee may reduce the HTF assistance amount to be recaptured on a prorata basis for the time the homeowner has owned and occupied the housing measured against the required affordability period.
(C)
Shared net proceeds.
If the net proceeds are not sufficient to recapture
the full HTF assistance (or a reduced amount as provided for in this section) plus enable the homeowner to recover the amount of the homeowner's downpayment and any capital improvement investment made by the owner since purchase, the grantee may share the net proceeds. The net proceeds are the sales price minus loan repayment (other than HTF funds) and closing costs. The net proceeds may be divided proportionally as set forth in the following mathematical formulas:
ER30JA15.010
(D)
Owner investment returned first.
The grantee may permit the homebuyer to recover the homebuyer's entire investment (downpayment and capital improvements made by the owner since purchase) before recapturing the HTF assistance.
(E)
Amount subject to recapture.
The HTF assistance that is subject to recapture is based on the amount of HTF assistance that enabled the homebuyer to buy the dwelling unit. This includes any HTF assistance that reduced the purchase price from fair market value to an affordable price, but excludes the amount between the cost of producing the unit and the market value of the property (
i.e.,
the development subsidy). The recaptured funds must be used to carry out HTF-eligible activities in accordance with the requirements of this part. If the HTF assistance is only used for the development subsidy and therefore not subject to recapture, the resale option must be used.

# Subpart H—Other Federal Requirements
§ 93.350
Other federal requirements and nondiscrimination; affirmative marketing.
(a)
General.
The Federal requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A, are applicable to participants in the HTF program. The requirements of this subpart include: nondiscrimination and equal opportunity; disclosure requirements; debarred, suspended, or ineligible contractors; drug-free work; and housing counseling.
(b)
Affirmative marketing.
(1) Each grantee must adopt and follow affirmative marketing procedures and requirements for rental projects containing five or more HTF-assisted housing units and for homeownership assistance programs. Affirmative marketing steps consist of actions to provide information and otherwise attract eligible persons in the housing market area to the available housing without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, familial status, or disability. If a grantee's written agreement with the project owner permits the rental housing project to limit tenant eligibility or to have a tenant preference in accordance with § 93.303(d)(3), the grantee must have affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that apply in the context of the limited/preferred tenant eligibility for the project.
(2) The affirmative marketing requirements and procedures adopted must include:
(i) Methods for informing the public, owners, and potential tenants about Federal fair housing laws and the grantee's affirmative marketing policy (
e.g.,
the use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan in press releases and solicitations for owners, and written communication to fair housing and other groups);
(ii) Requirements and practices the grantee and owner must adhere to in
order to carry out the grantee's affirmative marketing procedures and requirements (
e.g.,
use of commercial media, use of community contacts, use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan, and display of fair housing poster);
(iii) Procedures to be used by the grantee and owners to inform and solicit applications from persons in the housing market area who are not likely to apply for the rental housing or homeownership assistance program without special outreach (
e.g.,
through the use of community organizations, places of worship, employment centers, fair housing groups, or housing counseling agencies);
(iv) Records that will be kept describing actions taken by the grantee and owners to affirmatively market rental housing units and homeownership assistance program and records to assess the results of these actions; and
(v) A description of how the grantee will annually assess the success of affirmative marketing actions and what corrective actions will be taken where affirmative marketing requirements are not met.
(3) A grantee that subgrants HTF funds to subgrantees must require each subgrantee to either follow the grantee's procedures and requirements or adopt its own affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that meet this section.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 93.351
Lead-based paint.
Housing assisted with HTF funds is subject to the regulations at 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, and R.
§ 93.352
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, the grantee must ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted with HTF funds. To the extent feasible, displaced residential tenants must be provided a reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable dwelling unit in the building/complex upon completion of the project.
(b)
Temporary relocation.
The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing and any increase in monthly rent/utility costs.
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:
(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;
(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;
(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex upon completion of the project; and
(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons
—(1)
General.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and 49 CFR part 24. A “displaced person” must be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act and, if the comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, the minority person also must be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
(2)
Displaced person.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term “displaced person” means a person (family
individual, business, nonprofit organization, or farm, including any corporation, partnership or association) that moves from real property or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted with HTF funds. This includes any permanent, involuntary move for an assisted project, including any permanent move from the real property that is made:
(A) After notice by the owner to move permanently from the property, if the move occurs on or after:
(
1
) The date of the submission of an application to the grantee or HUD, if the applicant has site control and the application is later approved; or
(
2
) The date the grantee approves the applicable site, if the applicant does not have site control at the time of the application; or
(B) Before the date described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, if the grantee or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project; or
(C) By a tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit, if any one of the following three situations occurs:
(
1
) The tenant moves after execution of the agreement covering the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition and the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering the tenant the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex upon completion of the project under reasonable terms and conditions. Such reasonable terms and conditions must include a term of at least one year at a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(
i
) The tenant's monthly rent before such agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or
(
ii
) The total tenant payment, as determined under 24 CFR 5.628, if the tenant is low-income, or 30 percent of gross household income, if the tenant is not low-income;
(
2
) The tenant is required to relocate temporarily, does not return to the building/complex, and either:
(
i
) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation; or
(
ii
) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or
(
3
) The tenant is required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex but is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move, or other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” if:
(A) The person has been evicted for cause based upon a serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and the grantee determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance. The effective date of any termination or refusal to renew must be preceded by at least 30 calendar days advance written notice to the tenant specifying the grounds for the action.
(B) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application, but before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (
e.g.,
the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, incur a rent increase), and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance under this section) as a result of the project;
(C) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(D) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project.
(iii) The grantee may, at any time, ask HUD to determine whether a displacement is or would be covered by this rule.
(3)
Initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing replacement housing assistance to be provided under this paragraph (c) to a tenant displaced from a dwelling as a direct result of private-
owner rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the execution of the agreement covering the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition.
(d)
Optional relocation assistance.
The grantee may provide relocation payments and other relocation assistance to families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms displaced by a project assisted with HTF funds where the displacement is not subject to paragraph (c) of this section. The grantee may also provide relocation assistance to persons covered under paragraph (c) of this section beyond that required. For any such assistance that is not required by State or local law, the grantee must adopt a written policy available to the public that describes the optional relocation assistance that it has elected to furnish and provides for equal relocation assistance within each class of displaced persons.
(e)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(f)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the grantee's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a displaced person, or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person may be eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the grantee.
§ 93.353
Conflict of interest.
(a)
Applicability of 2 CFR 200.318.
In the procurement of property and services by grantees and subgrantees, the conflict of interest provisions in 2 CFR 200.318 apply. In all cases not governed by 2 CFR 200.318, the provisions of this section apply.
(b)
Conflicts prohibited.
No persons described in paragraph (c) of this section who exercise or have exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to activities assisted with HTF funds or who are in a position to participate in a decision-making process or gain inside information with regard to these activities may obtain a financial interest or financial benefit from a HTF-assisted activity, or have a financial interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect to the HTF-assisted activity, or the proceeds from such activity, either for themselves or those with whom they have business or immediate family ties, during their tenure or for one year thereafter. Immediate family ties include (whether by blood, marriage, or adoption) the spouse, parent (including a stepparent), child (including a stepchild), brother, sister (including a stepbrother or stepsister), grandparent, grandchild, and in-laws of a covered person.
(c)
Persons covered.
The conflict of interest provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to any person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected official or appointed official of the grantee or subgrantee.
(d)
Exceptions: Threshold requirements.
Upon the written request of the grantee, HUD may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determines that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the HTF and the effective and efficient administration of the grantee's program or project. An exception may be considered only after the grantee has provided the following:
(1) A disclosure of the nature of the conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and
(2) An opinion of the grantee's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate State or local law.
(e)
Factors to be considered for exceptions.
In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the grantee has satisfactorily met the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, HUD will consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable:
(1) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or an essential degree of expertise to the program or project which would otherwise not be available;
(2) Whether the person affected is a member of a group or class of income eligible persons intended to be the beneficiaries of the assisted activity,
and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(3) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted activity in question;
(4) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (c) of this section;
(5) Whether undue hardship will result either to the grantee or the person affected when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict; and
(6) Any other relevant considerations.
(f)
Recipient
—(1)
General
. No recipient assisted with HTF funds (or officer, employee, agent, elected or appointed official, or consultant of recipient or immediate family member or immediate family member of an officer, employee, agent, elected or appointed official, or consultant of a recipient) whether private, for-profit or nonprofit, may occupy a HTF-assisted affordable housing unit in a project during the required period of affordability specified in § 93.302(e) or § 93.304. This provision does not apply to an employee or agent of the recipient who occupies a housing unit as the project manager or maintenance worker.
(2)
Exceptions.
Upon written request of a recipient, the grantee (or subgrantee, if authorized by the grantee) may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section on a case-by-case basis when it determines that the exception will serve to further the purposes of the HTF program and the effective and efficient administration of the recipient's HTF-assisted project. In determining whether to grant a requested exception, the grantee shall consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the person receiving the benefit is a member of a group or class of low-income persons intended to be the beneficiaries of the assisted housing, and the exception will permit such person to receive generally the same interests or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class;
(ii) Whether the person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or the decisionmaking process with respect to the specific assisted housing in question;
(iii) Whether the tenant protection requirements of § 93.303 are being observed;
(iv) Whether the affirmative marketing requirements of § 93.350 are being observed and followed; and
(v) Any other factor relevant to the grantee's determination, including the timing of the requested exception.
§ 93.354
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act.
The HTF grant to the grantee and all assistance provided to subgrantees and recipients shall be considered a Federal award for purposes of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
§ 93.355
Eminent domain.
No HTF funds may be used in conjunction with property taken by eminent domain, unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use, except that, public use shall not be construed to include economic development that primarily benefits any private entity.
§ 93.356
VAWA requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, apply to all rental housing assisted with HTF funds, as provided in this section.
(2) For the HTF program, the “covered housing provider,” as this term is used in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, refers to:
(i) The owner of HTF-assisted rental housing for the purposes of 24 CFR 5.2005(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4) and 5.2009(a); and
(ii) The owner and the grantee for purposes of 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and 5.2007, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
Notification requirements.
The grantee must provide a notice and certification form that meet the requirements of 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the owner of HTF-assisted rental housing. The
owner of HTF-assisted rental housing must provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the applicant for a HTF-assisted unit at the time the applicant is admitted to an HTF-assisted unit, or denied admission to a HTF-assisted unit based on the owner's tenant selection policies and criteria. The owner of HTF-assisted rental housing must also provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005 with any notification of eviction from a HTF-assisted unit.
(c)
Bifurcation of lease requirements.
For purposes of this part, the requirements of 24 CFR 5.2009(b) do not apply. If a family who lives in a HTF-assisted rental unit separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the remaining tenant(s) may remain in the HTF-assisted unit.
(d)
VAWA lease term/addendum.
The grantee must develop a VAWA lease term/addendum to incorporate all requirements that apply to the owner or lease of HTF-assisted rental housing under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and this section, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.2005(b) and (c). This VAWA lease term/addendum must also provide that the tenant may terminate the lease without penalty if the grantee determines that the tenant has met the conditions for an emergency transfer under 24 CFR 5.2005(e).
(e)
Period of applicability.
The requirements of this section shall apply to the owner of the HTF-assisted rental housing for the duration of the affordability period.
(f)
Emergency transfer plan.
The grantee must develop and implement an emergency transfer plan and must make the determination of whether a tenant qualifies for an emergency transfer under the plan. The plan must meet the requirements in 24 CFR 5.2005(e), where, for the purposes of § 5.2005(e)(7), the required policies must specify that for tenants who qualify for an emergency transfer and who wish to make an external emergency transfer when a safe unit is not immediately available, the grantee must provide a list of properties in the jurisdiction that include HTF-assisted units. The list must include the following information for each property: The property's address, contact information, the unit sizes (number of bedrooms) for the HTF-assisted units, and, to the extent known, any tenant preferences or eligibility restrictions for the HTF-assisted units. In addition, the grantee may:
(1) Establish a preference under the grantee's HTF program for tenants who qualify for emergency transfers under 24 CFR 5.2005(e); and
(2) Coordinate with victim service providers and advocates to develop the emergency transfer plan, make referrals, and facilitate emergency transfers to safe and available units.
[81 FR 80805, Nov. 16, 2016]

# Subpart I—Program Administration
§ 93.400
Housing Trust Fund (HTF) accounts.
(a)
General.
HUD will establish an HTF United States Treasury account (HTF Treasury account) for each grantee. Each grantee may use either a separate HTF local account or a subsidiary account within its general fund (or other appropriate fund) as the HTF local account.
(b)
HTF Treasury account.
The HTF Treasury account includes the annual grant and funds reallocated to the State by formula.
(c)
HTF local account.
(1) The HTF local account includes deposits of HTF funds disbursed from the HTF Treasury account, any program income, and any repayments as required by § 93.403.
(2) The HTF local account must be interest-bearing.
(d)
Reductions.
HUD will reduce or recapture funds in the HTF account by the amount of:
(1) Any fiscal year grant funds in the HTF Treasury account that are not committed within 24 months after the date of HUD's execution of the HTF grant agreement;
(2) Any fiscal year grant funds in the HTF local account that are not expended within 5 years after the date of HUD's execution of the HTF grant agreement;
(3) Any amounts pursuant to § 93.453; and
(4) Amounts that the grantee fails to obtain and that were required to be reimbursed or returned under § 93.450.
§ 93.401
HTF grant agreement.
Allocated and reallocated funds will be made available pursuant to an HTF grant agreement.
§ 93.402
Program disbursement and information system.
(a)
General.
The HTF Treasury account is managed through a computerized disbursement and information system established by HUD. The system disburses HTF funds that are allocated or reallocated, and collects and reports information on the use of funds in the HTF Treasury account. The grantee must report on the receipt and use of all program income in HUD's computerized disbursement and information system. The grantee must develop and maintain a system to ensure that each recipient and subgrantee uses HTF funds in accordance with the requirements of this part and that any requirements or conditions under which the HTF funds were provided.
(b)
Project set-up.
(1) After the grantee executes the HTF grant agreement, submits the applicable banking and security documents, and commits funds to a specific local project, the grantee shall identify (set up) specific activities (
i.e.,
projects) in the disbursement and information system. Investments that require the set-up of projects in the system are the acquisition, new construction, or rehabilitation of housing, operating cost assistance, and operating cost assistance reserves. The grantee is required to enter complete project set-up information at the time of project set-up.
(2) If the project set-up information is not completed within 20 calendar days of the date of the initial project set-up, the project may be canceled by the system. In addition, a project that has been committed in the system for 12 months without an initial disbursement of funds may be canceled by the system.
(c)
Disbursement of HTF Funds.
(1) After complete project set-up information is entered into the disbursement and information system, HTF funds for the project may be drawn down from the HTF Treasury account by the grantee by electronic funds transfer. Any drawdown of funds in the HTF Treasury account is conditioned upon the provision of satisfactory information by the grantee about the project and compliance with other procedures, as specified by HUD.
(2) Funds drawn from the HTF Treasury account are subject to the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (31 U.S.C. 6501
et seq.
) and regulations at 31 CFR part 205.
(3) Funds in the HTF local account must be disbursed before requests are made for funds in the HTF Treasury account.
(d)
Project completion.
(1) Complete project completion information must be entered into the disbursement and information system, or otherwise provided, within 120 calendar days of the date of the final project drawdown. If satisfactory project completion information is not provided, HUD may suspend further project set-ups or take other corrective actions.
(2) Additional HTF funds for development-related costs may be committed to a project up to one year after project completion, but the amount of HTF funds in the project may not exceed the maximum per-unit development subsidy amount established pursuant to § 93.300.
(e)
Access by other participants.
Access to the disbursement and information system by other entities participating in the HTF program will be governed by procedures established by HUD.
§ 93.403
Program income and repayments.
(a)
Program income.
Program income must be treated as HTF funds and must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part. Program income must be deposited in the grantee's HTF local account unless the grantee permits a subgrantee to retain the program income for additional HTF projects pursuant to the written agreement required by § 93.404(b). The grantee must report the program income received as well as the use of the program income in the disbursement and information system that HUD designates for the HTF.
(b)
Repayments.
(1) Any HTF funds invested in housing that does not meet the affordability requirements for the period specified in § 93.302 or § 93.304, as applicable, must be repaid by the grantee in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Any HTF funds invested in a project that is terminated before completion, either voluntarily or otherwise, must be repaid by the grantee, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) HUD will instruct the grantee to either repay the funds to the HTF Treasury account or the local account. Generally, if the HTF funds were disbursed from the grantee's HTF Treasury account, they must be repaid to the HTF Treasury account. If the HTF funds were disbursed from the grantee's HTF local account, they must be repaid to the local account.
(4) If the grantee is no longer a grantee in the HTF program when the repayment is made, the funds must be remitted to HUD and reallocated in accordance with § 93.54 of this part.
§ 93.404
Grantee responsibilities; written agreements; onsite inspections; financial oversight.
(a)
Responsibilities.
The grantee is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of its HTF program, ensuring that HTF funds are used in accordance with all program requirements and written agreements, and taking appropriate action when performance problems arise. The use of subgrantees or contractors does not relieve the grantee of this responsibility. The performance and compliance of each contractor and subgrantee must be reviewed at least annually. The grantee must have and follow written policies, procedures, and systems, including a system for assessing risk of activities and projects and a system for monitoring entities consistent with this section, to ensure that the requirements of this part are met.
(b)
Executing a written agreement.
Before disbursing any HTF funds to any entity, the grantee must enter into a written agreement with that entity. The written agreement must ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
(c)
Provisions in written agreements.
The contents of the agreement may vary depending upon the role the entity is asked to assume or the type of project undertaken. This section details basic requirements by role and the minimum provisions that must be included in a written agreement.
(1)
Subgrantee.
The agreement must require the subgrantee to comply with the requirements applicable to the grantee under this part. The agreement between the grantee and the subgrantee must include:
(i)
Use of the HTF funds.
An HTF subgrantee that is a unit of general local government must have a consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91, and the written agreement must require that an HTF allocation plan to be part of the subgrantee's consolidated plan (see 24 CFR 91.220(l)(5)). The HTF allocation plan of an HTF subgrantee that is a State agency is included in the grantee's HTF allocation plan. The grantee may impose restrictions on the use of funds by the subgrantee,
e.g.,
limit to rental projects. The written agreement must require that the selection of projects by eligible recipients will be in accordance with the HTF allocation plan. The agreement must describe the tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks (including a schedule for committing funds to projects), a budget, and the period of the agreement. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the grantee to effectively monitor performance under the agreement.
(ii)
Deadlines.
The agreement must state the time requirements for the commitment and expenditure of HTF funds and specify that remaining funds will be reduced or recaptured by the grantee so that the grantee can meet its commitment and expenditure deadlines in § 93.400.
(iii)
Audit.
The agreement must state that an audit of the subgrantee must be conducted at least annually, in accordance with § 93.406.
(iv)
Program income.
The agreement must state if program income is to be remitted to the grantee or to be retained by the subgrantee for additional HTF eligible activities.
(v)
Uniform administrative requirements.
The agreement must require the subgrantee to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as described in § 93.405. The agreement must include the information in 2 CFR 200.331.
(vi)
Other program requirements.
The agreement must require the subgrantee to carry out each project in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in §§ 93.350 through 93.356. The agreement must set forth all obligations the grantee imposes on the subgrantee in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 93.356, including notice obligations and obligations under the emergency transfer plan.
(vii)
Affirmative marketing.
The agreement must specify the subgrantee's affirmative marketing responsibilities, in accordance with § 93.350.
(viii)
Requests for disbursement of funds.
The agreement must specify that the subgrantee may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed. Program income must be disbursed before the subgrantee requests grant funds from the grantee.
(ix)
Reversion of assets.
The agreement must specify that upon closeout of the subgrant agreement, the subgrantee must transfer to the grantee any HTF funds on hand and any accounts receivable attributable to the use of HTF funds.
(x)
Records and reports.
The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted in order to assist the grantee in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(xi)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement. The agreement must specify that, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338, suspension or termination may occur if the subgrantee materially fails to comply with any term of the agreement. The grantee may permit the agreement to be terminated in whole or in part, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339.
(xii)
Written agreement.
The agreement must require that before the subgrantee provides HTF funds to eligible recipients, first-time homebuyers, or contractors, the subgrantee must have a written agreement that meets the requirements of this section.
(xiii)
Duration of the agreement.
The agreement must specify the period of performance of the agreement.
(xiv)
Fees.
The agreement must prohibit the subgrantee from charging servicing, origination, or other fees for the costs of administering the HTF program, except that:
(A) The subgrantee may charge owners of rental projects reasonable annual fees for compliance monitoring during the period of affordability. The fees must be based upon the average actual cost of performing the monitoring of HTF-assisted rental projects. The basis for determining the amount of the fee amount must be documented and the fee must be included in the costs of the project as part of the project underwriting;
(B) The subgrantee may charge nominal application fees (although these fees are not an eligible HTF cost) to discourage frivolous applications. The amount of application fees must be appropriate to the type of application and may not create an undue impediment to an income-eligible family's, or other potential recipient's participation in the HTF program; and
(C) The subgrantee may charge homebuyers a fee for housing counseling.
(2)
Eligible recipient.
The agreement between the grantee and the eligible recipient selected for funding must include:
(i)
Use of the HTF funds.
The agreement must describe the use of the HTF funds for the project, including the tasks to be performed, a schedule for completing the tasks and project (including the expenditure deadline), and a project budget. These items must be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the grantee to effectively monitor performance under the agreement. If the grantee is providing operating cost assistance, the written agreement must include the provisions required by § 93.201.
(ii)
Deadlines.
The agreement must state the time requirements for the commitment and expenditure of HTF
funds and specify that remaining funds will be reduced or recaptured.
(iii)
Audit.
The agreement must specify that the recipient will submit to the grantee a cost certification performed by a certified public accountant for each project assisted with HTF funds. The agreement must specify that the recipient will submit to the grantee an annual audit performed on each project assisted with HTF funds, beginning the first year following the cost certification and with the final annual audit occurring the last year of the affordability period.
(iv)
Affordability.
The agreement must specify the affordability period, require housing assisted with HTF funds to meet the affordability requirements of § 93.302 or § 93.304, as applicable, and must require repayment of the funds if the housing does not meet the affordability requirements for the specified time period. If the recipient is undertaking a rental project, the agreement must establish the initial rents and the procedures for rent increases, the number of HTF units, the size of the HTF units, the designation of the HTF units as fixed or floating, and the requirement to provide the address (
e.g.,
street address and apartment number) of each HTF unit no later than the time of project completion. If the recipient is undertaking homeownership projects for sale to first-time homebuyers, in accordance with § 93.304, the agreement must establish the resale or recapture requirements that must be imposed on the housing, the sales price or the basis upon which the sales price will be determined, and the disposition of the sales proceeds.
(v)
Project requirements.
The agreement must require the housing to meet the property standards in § 93.301 of this part, as applicable, and in accordance with the type of project assisted upon project completion. The agreement must also require owners of rental housing assisted with HTF funds to maintain the housing in compliance with § 93.301 of this part for the duration of the affordability period, and to comply with the requirements of § 93.303. The agreement may permit the recipient to limit eligibility or give a preference to a particular segment of the population, only if the grantee has described any such limited eligibility or preference in its consolidated plan; provided, however, that any limitation or preference cannot violate nondiscrimination requirements in § 93.350.
(vi)
Other program requirements.
The agreement must require the eligible recipient to carry out each project in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in §§ 93.350 through 93.356. The agreement must set forth all obligations the grantee imposes on the recipient in order to meet the VAWA requirements under § 93.356, including notice obligations and obligations under the emergency transfer plan.
(vii)
Affirmative marketing.
The agreement must specify the recipient's affirmative marketing responsibilities, as enumerated by the grantee in accordance with § 93.350.
(viii)
Requests for disbursement of funds.
The agreement must specify that the recipient may not request disbursement of funds under the agreement until the funds are needed for payment of eligible costs. The amount of each request must be limited to the amount needed.
(ix)
Records and reports.
The agreement must specify the particular records that must be maintained and the information or reports that must be submitted to assist the grantee in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. The owner of rental housing must annually provide the grantee with information on rents and occupancy of HTF-assisted units to demonstrate compliance with § 93.302. If the rental housing project has floating HTF units, the owner must provide the grantee with information regarding unit substitution and filling vacancies so that the project remains in compliance with HTF rental occupancy requirements. The agreement must specify the reporting requirements (including copies of financial statements) to enable the grantee to determine the financial condition (and continued financial viability) of the rental project.
(x)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of the affordable housing requirements by the grantee and the intended beneficiaries. This means of
enforcement and the affordability requirements in § 93.302 must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the grantee and beneficiaries may require specific performance. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement.
(xi)
Duration of the agreement.
The agreement must specify the duration of the agreement. If the housing assisted under this agreement is rental housing, the agreement must be in effect through the affordability period required by the grantee under § 93.302. If the housing assisted under this agreement is homeownership housing, the agreement must be in effect at least until completion of the project and ownership by the first-time homebuyer.
(xii)
Fees.
The agreement must prohibit project owners from charging origination fees, parking fees, laundry room access fees, and other fees; however, rental project owners may charge reasonable application fees to prospective tenants.
(3)
First-time homebuyer.
When a grantee provides assistance to a homebuyer, the written agreement must include as a minimum:
(i)
Use of the HTF funds.
The agreement must conform to the requirements in § 93.304, including the limitations on the value of the property, principal residence requirement, lease-purchase terms, if applicable, and the resale or recapture provisions. The agreement must specify the amount of HTF funds, the form of assistance (
e.g.,
grant, amortizing loan, deferred payment loan), the use of the funds (
e.g.,
downpayment, closing costs), and the time by which the housing must be acquired.
(ii)
Resale or recapture restrictions.
The agreement must specify the resale or recapture restrictions established under § 93.304 for the specified time period.
(iii)
Enforcement of the agreement.
The agreement must provide for a means of enforcement of the affordable housing requirements by the grantee. The means of enforcement and the affordability requirements in § 93.304 for resale restrictions must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, use restrictions, or other mechanisms approved by HUD under which the grantee may require specific performance. In addition, the agreement must specify remedies for breach of the provisions of the agreement.
(d)
Onsite inspections
—(1)
Project completion.
The grantee must perform an onsite inspection of each HTF-assisted project at project completion to determine that the housing meets the property standards of § 93.301. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the grantee establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 93.301.
(2)
Period of affordability.
(i) During the period of affordability, the grantee must perform onsite inspections of HTF-assisted rental housing buildings to determine compliance with the ongoing property standards of § 93.301 and to verify the information submitted by the owners in accordance with the requirements of § 93.302. The inspections must be in accordance with the inspection procedures that the grantee establishes to meet the inspection requirements of § 93.301.
(ii) The onsite inspections must occur 12 months after project completion and at least once every 3 years thereafter during the period of affordability.
(iii) If there are observed deficiencies for any of the inspectable items established by the grantee, in accordance with the inspection requirements of § 93.301, a follow-up onsite inspection must occur within 12 months, or within a reasonable time frame established by the grantee depending on the severity of the deficiency, to verify that all observed deficiencies have been corrected. The grantee may establish a list of non-hazardous deficiencies for which correction can be verified by third party documentation rather than reinspection. The grantee must adopt a more frequent inspection schedule for properties that have been found to have health and safety violations. Life-threatening health and safety deficiencies must be corrected immediately, in accordance with § 93.301.
(iv) The property owner must annually certify to the grantee that each
building in the project is suitable for occupancy, taking into account State and local health, safety, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and requirements, and the ongoing property standards established by the grantee to meet the requirements of § 93.301.
(v) Inspections must be based on a statistically valid sample of units appropriate for the size of the HTF-assisted project, as set forth by HUD through notification published in the
Federal Register.
For projects with one to four HTF-assisted units, the HTF grantee must inspect all of the HTF-assisted units and all inspectable areas for each building housing HTF-assisted units.
(e)
Financial oversight.
During the period of affordability, the grantee must examine regularly (at least annually) the financial condition of HTF-assisted rental projects with 10 or more HTF-assisted units to determine the continued financial viability of the housing and must take actions to correct problems.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 80805, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 30497, May 11, 2023]
§ 93.405
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audits.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply to the grantees and subgrantees receiving HTF funds, except for the following provisions: §§ 200.307, 200.311, 300.328(b), 200.329, and 200.333. If there is a conflict between the definitions in 2 CFR part 200 and 24 CFR part 93, the definitions in part 93 govern.
§ 93.406
Audits.
(a) Audits of the grantee and subgrantees must be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The use of HTF grant funds by the grantee must be audited not less than annually to ensure compliance with this part. Any financial statement submitted by the grantee to HUD must be reviewed by an independent certified public accountant, in accordance with Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services, which is issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(b) The written agreement providing HTF assistance to the recipient must specify that the recipient will submit to the grantee a cost certification performed by a certified public accountant for each project assisted with HTF funds. The agreement must specify that the recipient will submit to the grantee an annual audit performed on each project assisted with HTF funds, beginning the first year following the cost certification and with the final annual audit occurring the last year of the affordability period.
§ 93.407
Recordkeeping.
(a)
General.
Each grantee must establish and maintain sufficient records to enable HUD to determine whether the grantee has met the requirements of this part. At a minimum, the following records are needed:
(1)
Program records.
(i) The forms of HTF assistance used in the program.
(ii) The subsidy layering guidelines adopted in accordance with § 93.300.
(iii) If HTF funds are used for housing for first-time homebuyers, the procedures used for establishing 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area in accordance with § 93.305, as set forth in the consolidated plan.
(iv) If HTF funds are used for acquisition of housing for homeownership, the resale guidelines established in accordance with § 93.304, as set forth in the consolidated plan.
(v) Records documenting compliance with the 24-month commitment deadline of § 93.400(d)(l).
(vi) Records documenting compliance with the 10 percent limitation on administrative and planning costs in accordance with § 93.202.
(2)
Project records.
(i) A full description of each project assisted with HTF funds, including the location (address of each unit), form of HTF assistance, and the units assisted with HTF funds.
(ii) The source and application of funds for each project, including supporting documentation, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337, and records to document the eligibility and allowability of the project costs, including the documentation of the actual HTF-eligible development costs of each HTF-assisted unit (through allocation of costs, if permissible under § 93.200(c)) where HTF funds are used to
assist less than all of the units in a multi-unit project.
(iii) Records demonstrating that each rental housing or homeownership project meets the maximum per-unit subsidy amount established pursuant to § 93.300(a), and the subsidy layering and underwriting evaluation in accordance with § 93.300.
(iv) Records (
e.g.,
inspection reports) demonstrating that each project meets the property standards of § 93.301 of this part at project completion. In addition, during the period of affordability, records for rental projects demonstrating compliance with the property standards, and financial reviews and actions pursuant to § 93.404(a).
(v) Records demonstrating that each family is income-eligible.
(vi) Records demonstrating that each rental housing project meets the affordability and income targeting requirements of § 93.302 for the required period. Records must be kept for each family assisted.
(vii) Records demonstrating that each lease for an assisted rental housing unit complies with the tenant and participant protections of § 93.303. Records must be kept for each family assisted.
(viii) Records demonstrating that the purchase price for each housing unit for a first-time homebuyer does not exceed 95 percent of the median purchase price for the area, in accordance with § 93.305.
(ix) Records demonstrating that each housing unit for a first-time homebuyer meets the affordability requirements of § 93.304 for the required period.
(x) Records demonstrating that a site and neighborhood standards review was conducted for each project that included new construction of rental housing assisted under this part, to determine that the site meets the requirements of § 93.150.
(xi) Records (written agreements) demonstrating compliance with the written agreements requirements in § 93.404.
(3)
Financial records.
(i) Records identifying the source and application of funds for each fiscal year, including the annual grant and any reallocation (identified by federal fiscal year).
(ii) Records concerning the HTF Treasury account and local account required to be established and maintained by § 93.400, including deposits, disbursements, balances, supporting documentation, and any other information required by the program disbursement and information system established by HUD.
(iii) Records identifying the source and application of program income and repayments.
(iv) Records demonstrating adequate budget control, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, including evidence of periodic account reconciliations.
(4)
Program administration records.
(i) Written policies, procedures, and systems, including a system for assessing risk of activities and projects, and a system for monitoring entities consistent with this section, to ensure that the requirements of this part are met.
(ii) Records demonstrating compliance with the applicable uniform administrative requirements required by § 93.405.
(iii) Records documenting required inspections, monitoring reviews and audits, and the resolution of any findings or concerns.
(5)
Records concerning other Federal requirements.
(i) Equal opportunity and fair housing records, as required under 24 CFR part 121.
(ii) Data on the extent to which each racial and ethnic group and single-headed households (by gender of household head) have applied for, participated in, or benefited from, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with HTF funds.
(iii) Records demonstrating compliance with the affirmative marketing procedures and requirements of § 93.350.
(iv) Records demonstrating compliance with the lead-based paint requirements of 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, M, and R.
(v) Records demonstrating compliance with requirements of § 93.352 regarding displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition.
(vi) Records supporting exceptions to the conflict-of-interest prohibition pursuant to § 93.353.
(vii) Debarment and suspension certifications required by 24 CFR5.105(c) and 2 CFR part 2424.
(viii) Records demonstrating compliance with § 93.354.
(ix) Records demonstrating compliance with 2 CFR 200.321 regarding the grantee's activities related to minority business enterprise (MBE) and women's business enterprise (WBE).
(x) Documentation on emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and § 93.356 pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.
(xi) Documentation of actions undertaken to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 75, which implements section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
(b)
Period of record retention.
All records pertaining to each fiscal year of HTF funds must be retained in a secure location for the most recent 5-year period, except as provided below.
(1) For rental housing projects, records may be retained for 5 years after the project completion date, except that records of individual tenant income verifications, project rents, and project inspections must be retained for the most recent 5-year period, until 5 years after the affordability period terminates.
(2) For homeownership housing projects, records may be retained for 5 years after the project completion date, except for documents imposing resale or recapture restrictions that must be retained for 5 years after the affordability period terminates.
(3) Written agreements must be retained for 5 years after the agreement terminates.
(4) Records covering displacements and acquisitions must be retained for 5 years after the date by which all persons displaced from the property and all persons whose property is acquired for the project have received the final payment to which they are entitled, in accordance with § 93.352.
(5) If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, monitoring, inspection, or other action has been started before the expiration of the required record retention period, records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues that arise from it, or until the end of the required period, whichever is later.
(c)
Access to records.
(1) The grantee must provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable access to records, consistent with applicable State and local laws regarding privacy and obligations of confidentiality.
(2) HUD and the Comptroller General of the United States, and any of their representatives, have the right of access to any pertinent books, documents, papers, or other records of the grantee, subgrantees, and recipients, to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
[80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 80805, Nov. 16, 2016; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020]
§ 93.408
Performance reports.
Each grantee must develop and maintain a system to track the use of its HTF funds, and submit annual performance and management reports on its HTF program in accordance with 24 CFR 91.520. HUD will make the performance and management reports publicly available.

# Subpart J—Performance Reviews and Sanctions
§ 93.450
Accountability of recipients.
The grantee shall review each recipient to determine compliance with the requirements of this part and the terms of the written agreement in accordance with the grantee's policies, procedures, and systems established pursuant to § 93.404(a).
(a)
Misuse of funds
—(1)
Reimbursement requirement.
If a recipient of HTF assistance is determined to have used HTF funds in a manner that is materially in violation of the requirements of this part or any requirements or conditions under which the funds were provided, the grantee must require that, within 12 months after the determination of such misuse, the recipient reimburse the grantee for such misused amounts and return to the grantee any such amounts that remain unused or
uncommitted for use. The reimbursement is in addition to any other remedies that may be available under law.
(2)
Determination.
The grantee or HUD may make the determination, provided that:
(i) The grantee provides notification and opportunity for discretionary review to HUD; and
(ii) HUD does not subsequently reverse the determination.
(b)
Reduction for failure to obtain return of misused funds.
(1) If, in any year, a grantee fails to obtain reimbursement or return of the full amount required to be reimbursed or returned to the grantee during the year, the amount of the grant for the grantee for the succeeding year will be reduced by the amount by which the amounts required to be reimbursed or returned exceed the amount actually reimbursed or returned.
(2) In any case in which a failure to obtain reimbursement or return occurs during a year immediately preceding a year in which HTF grants will not be made, the grantee shall pay to HUD, for reallocation among the other grantees, an amount equal to the amount of the reduction for the entity that would otherwise apply.
§ 93.451
Performance reviews.
(a)
General.
HUD will review the performance of each grantee in carrying out its responsibilities under this part whenever determined necessary by HUD, but at least annually. In conducting performance reviews, HUD will rely primarily on information obtained from the grantee's records and reports, findings from onsite monitoring, audit reports, and information generated from the disbursement and information system established by HUD. Where applicable, HUD may also consider relevant information pertaining to a grantee's performance gained from other sources, including citizen comments, complaint determinations, and litigation. Reviews to determine compliance with specific requirements of this part will be conducted as necessary, with or without prior notice to the grantee. Onsite comprehensive performance reviews under the standards in paragraph (b) of this section will be conducted after prior notice to the grantee.
(b)
Standards for comprehensive performance review.
A grantee's performance will be comprehensively reviewed periodically, as prescribed by HUD, to determine whether the grantee has committed and expended the HTF funds as required by § 93.400; has met the requirements of this part, particularly eligible activities, income targeting, affordability, and property standards; has awarded the funds in accordance with its HTF allocation plan and requirements of this part; has reviewed its subgrantees and recipients to determine whether they have satisfied the requirements of this part and the terms of their written agreements; and has met its performance measures in its consolidated plan.
§ 93.452
Corrective and remedial actions.
(a)
General.
HUD will use the procedures in this section in conducting the performance review as provided in § 93.451 and in taking corrective and remedial actions.
(b)
Performance review.
(1) If HUD determines preliminarily that the grantee has not met a requirement of this part, the grantee will be given notice of this determination and an opportunity to demonstrate, within the time prescribed by HUD (not to exceed 30 calendar days) and on the basis of substantial facts and data, that it has done so.
(2) If the grantee fails to demonstrate to HUD's satisfaction that it has met the requirement, HUD will take corrective or remedial action in accordance with this section or § 93.453.
(c)
Corrective and remedial actions.
Corrective or remedial actions for a performance deficiency (failure to meet a provision of this part) will be designed to prevent a continuation of the deficiency; mitigate, to the extent possible, its adverse effects or consequences; and prevent its recurrence.
(1) HUD may instruct the grantee to submit and comply with proposals for action to correct, mitigate, and prevent a performance deficiency, including:
(i) Preparing and following a schedule of actions for carrying out the affected activities, consisting of schedules, timetables, and milestones necessary to implement the affected activities;
(ii) Establishing and following a management plan that assigns responsibilities for carrying out the remedial actions;
(iii) Canceling or revising activities likely to be affected by the performance deficiency, before expending HTF funds for the activities;
(iv) Reprogramming HTF funds that have not yet been expended from affected activities to other eligible activities;
(v) Reimbursing its HTF account in any amount not used in accordance with the requirements of this part;
(vi) Suspending disbursement of HTF funds for affected activities; and
(vii) Establishing procedures to ensure compliance with HTF requirements;
(2) HUD may also change the method of payment from an advance to reimbursement basis and may require supporting documentation to be submitted for HUD review for each payment request before payment is made; determine the grantee to be high risk and impose special conditions or restrictions on the allocation in accordance with 2 CFR 200.207 or 200.338; and take other remedies that may be legally available.
§ 93.453
Notice and opportunity for hearing; sanctions.
(a) If HUD finds after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing that a grantee has substantially failed to comply with any provision of this part, and until HUD is satisfied that there is no longer any such failure to comply:
(1) HUD shall reduce the funds in the grantee's HTF account by the amount of any expenditures that were not in accordance with the requirements of this part or require the grantee to repay to HUD any amount of the HTF grant that was not used in accordance with the requirements of this part; and
(2) HUD may do one or more of the following:
(i) Prevent withdrawals from the grantee's HTF account for activities affected by the failure to comply;
(ii) Restrict the grantee's activities under this part to activities or recipients not affected by the failure to comply;
(iii) Remove the State from participation in allocations or reallocations of funds made available under §§ 93.50 through 93.54 of this part; or
(iv) Terminate any HTF assistance to the grantee. HUD may, on due notice, suspend payments at any time after the issuance of a notice of opportunity for hearing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, pending such hearing and a final decision, to the extent that HUD determines such action to be necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for activities affected by the failure to comply.
(b)
Proceedings.
When HUD proposes to take action pursuant to this section, the respondent in the proceedings will be the grantee. Proceedings will be conducted in accordance with 24 CFR part 26.
PARTS 94-99 [RESERVED]
Appendixes A-C to Subtitle A [Reserved]

# Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
24 CFR Subtitle B, Ch. I (4-1-25 Edition)
Office of Asst. Secy., Equal Opportunity, HUD

# CHAPTER I—OFFICE OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Part
Page
100
Discriminatory conduct under the Fair Housing Act
695
103
Fair housing—complaint processing
719
105
[Reserved]
107
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity in housing under Executive Order 11063
730
108
Compliance procedures for affirmative fair housing marketing
737
110
Fair housing poster
741
115
Certification and funding of State and local fair housing enforcement agencies
743
121
Collection of data
760
125
Fair housing initiatives program
760
146
Nondiscrimination on the basis of age in HUD programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance
764
180
Consolidated HUD hearing procedures for civil rights matters
771
181-199
[Reserved]
Pt. 100

# PART 100—DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
100.1
Authority.
100.5
Scope.
100.7
Liability for discriminatory housing practices.
100.10
Exemptions.
100.20
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Discriminatory Housing Practices
100.50
Real estate practices prohibited.
100.60
Unlawful refusal to sell or rent or to negotiate for the sale or rental.
100.65
Discrimination in terms, conditions and privileges and in services and facilities.
100.70
Other prohibited sale and rental conduct.
100.75
Discriminatory advertisements, statements and notices.
100.80
Discriminatory representations on the availability of dwellings.
100.85
Blockbusting.
100.90
Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.

# Subpart C—Discrimination in Residential Real Estate-Related Transactions
100.110
Discriminatory practices in residential real estate-related transactions.
100.115
Residential real estate-related transactions.
100.120
Discrimination in the making of loans and in the provision of other financial assistance.
100.125
Discrimination in the purchasing of loans.
100.130
Discrimination in the terms and conditions for making available loans or other financial assistance.
100.135
Unlawful practices in the selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
100.140
General rules.
100.141
Definitions.
100.142
Types of information.
100.143
Appropriate corrective action.
100.144
Scope of privilege.
100.145
Loss of privilege.
100.146
Limited use of privileged information.
100.147
Adjudication.
100.148
Effective date.

# Subpart D—Prohibition Against Discrimination Because of Handicap
100.200
Purpose.
100.201
Definitions.
100.201a
Incorporation by reference.
100.202
General prohibitions against discrimination because of handicap.
100.203
Reasonable modifications of existing premises.
100.204
Reasonable accommodations.
100.205
Design and construction requirements.

# Subpart E—Housing for Older Persons
100.300
Purpose.
100.301
Exemption.
100.302
State and Federal elderly housing programs.
100.303
62 or over housing.
100.304
Housing for persons who are 55 years of age or older.
100.305
80 percent occupancy.
100.306
Intent to operate as housing designed for persons who are 55 years of age or older.
100.307
Verification of occupancy.
100.308
Good faith defense against civil money damages.

# Subpart F—Interference, Coercion or Intimidation
100.400
Prohibited interference, coercion or intimidation.

# Subpart G—Discriminatory Effect
100.500
Discriminatory effect prohibited.

# Subpart H— Quid Pro Quo and Hostile Environment Harassment
§ 100.600
Quid pro quo and hostile environment harassment.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 3600-3620.

# Source:
54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 100.1
Authority.
This regulation is issued under the authority of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to administer and enforce title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (the Fair Housing Act).
§ 100.5
Scope.
(a) It is the policy of the United States to provide, within constitutional limitations, for fair housing throughout the United States. No person shall be subjected to discrimination because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin in the sale, rental, or advertising of dwellings, in the provision of brokerage services, or in the availability of residential real estate-related transactions.
(b) This part provides the Department's interpretation of the coverage of the Fair Housing Act regarding discrimination related to the sale or rental of dwellings, the provision of services in connection therewith, and the availability of residential real estate-related transactions. The illustrations of unlawful housing discrimination in this part may be established by a practice's discriminatory effect, even if not motivated by discriminatory intent, consistent with the standards outlined in § 100.500.
(c) Nothing in this part relieves persons participating in a Federal or Federally-assisted program or activity from other requirements applicable to buildings and dwellings.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 11481, Feb. 15, 2013; 85 FR 60332, Sept. 24, 2020; 88 FR 19500, Mar. 31, 2023]
§ 100.7
Liability for discriminatory housing practices.
(a)
Direct liability.
(1) A person is directly liable for:
(i) The person's own conduct that results in a discriminatory housing practice.
(ii) Failing to take prompt action to correct and end a discriminatory housing practice by that person's employee or agent, where the person knew or should have known of the discriminatory conduct.
(iii) Failing to take prompt action to correct and end a discriminatory housing practice by a third-party, where the person knew or should have known of the discriminatory conduct and had the power to correct it. The power to take prompt action to correct and end a discriminatory housing practice by a third-party depends upon the extent of the person's control or any other legal responsibility the person may have with respect to the conduct of such third-party.
(2) For purposes of determining liability under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, prompt action to correct and end the discriminatory housing practice may not include any action that penalizes or harms the aggrieved person, such as eviction of the aggrieved person.
(b)
Vicarious liability.
A person is vicariously liable for a discriminatory housing practice by the person's agent or employee, regardless of whether the person knew or should have known of the conduct that resulted in a discriminatory housing practice, consistent with agency law.
[81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.10
Exemptions.
(a) This part does not:
(1) Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted because of race, color, or national origin;
(2) Prohibit a private club, not in fact open to the public, which, incident to its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members;
(3) Limit the applicability of any reasonable local, State or Federal restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling; or
(4) Prohibit conduct against a person because such person has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
(b) Nothing in this part regarding discrimination based on familial status applies with respect to housing for older persons as defined in subpart E of this part.
(c) Nothing in this part, other than the prohibitions against discriminatory advertising, applies to:
(1) The sale or rental of any single family house by an owner, provided the following conditions are met:
(i) The owner does not own or have any interest in more than three single family houses at any one time.
(ii) The house is sold or rented without the use of a real estate broker, agent or salesperson or the facilities of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings. If the owner selling the house does not reside in it at the time of the sale or was not the most recent resident of the house prior to such sale, the exemption in this paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies to only one such sale in any 24-month period.
(2) Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living quarters as his or her residence.
§ 100.20
Definitions.
The terms Department, Fair Housing Act, and Secretary are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Aggrieved person
includes any person who—
(a) Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
(b) Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
Broker
or
Agent
includes any person authorized to perform an action on behalf of another person regarding any matter related to the sale or rental of dwellings, including offers, solicitations or contracts and the administration of matters regarding such offers, solicitations or contracts or any residential real estate-related transactions.
Discriminatory housing practice
means an act that is unlawful under section 804, 805, 806, or 818 of the Fair Housing Act.
Dwelling
means any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
Familial status
means one or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years) being domiciled with—
(a) A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or individuals; or
(b) The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Handicap
is defined in § 100.201.
Person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under title 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
Person in the business of selling or renting dwellings
means any person who:
(a) Within the preceding twelve months, has participated as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein;
(b) Within the preceding twelve months, has participated as agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
(c) Is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
State
means any of the several states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any of the territories and possessions of the United States.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Discriminatory Housing Practices
§ 100.50
Real estate practices prohibited.
(a) This subpart provides the Department's interpretation of conduct that
is unlawful housing discrimination under section 804 and section 806 of the Fair Housing Act. In general the prohibited actions are set forth under sections of this subpart which are most applicable to the discriminatory conduct described. However, an action illustrated in one section can constitute a violation under sections in the subpart. For example, the conduct described in § 100.60(b)(3) and (4) would constitute a violation of § 100.65(a) as well as § 100.60(a).
(b) It shall be unlawful to:
(1) Refuse to sell or rent a dwelling after a
bona fide
offer has been made, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin, or to discriminate in the sale or rental of a dwelling because of handicap.
(2) Discriminate in the terms, conditions or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection with sales or rentals, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Engage in any conduct relating to the provision of housing which otherwise makes unavailable or denies dwellings to persons because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
(5) Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that a dwelling is not available for sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact available.
(6) Engage in blockbusting practices in connection with the sale or rental of dwellings because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(7) Deny access to or membership or participation in, or to discriminate against any person in his or her access to or membership or participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' association, or other service organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting a dwelling or in the terms or conditions or membership or participation, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(c) The application of the Fair Housing Act with respect to persons with handicaps is discussed in subpart D of this part.
§ 100.60
Unlawful refusal to sell or rent or to negotiate for the sale or rental.
(a) It shall be unlawful for a person to refuse to sell or rent a dwelling to a person who has made a
bona fide
offer, because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin or to refuse to negotiate with a person for the sale or rental of a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin, or to discriminate against any person in the sale or rental of a dwelling because of handicap.
(b) Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Failing to accept or consider a
bona fide
offer because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Refusing to sell or rent a dwelling to, or to negotiate for the sale or rental of a dwelling with, any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Imposing different sales prices or rental charges for the sale or rental of a dwelling upon any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Using different qualification criteria or applications, or sale or rental standards or procedures, such as income standards, application requirements, application fees, credit analysis or sale or rental approval procedures or other requirements, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(5) Evicting tenants because of their race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin or because of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of a tenant's guest.
(6) Conditioning the availability of a dwelling, including the price, qualification criteria, or standards or procedures for securing the dwelling, on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(7) Subjecting a person to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that causes the person to vacate a dwelling or abandon efforts to secure the dwelling.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.65
Discrimination in terms, conditions and privileges and in services and facilities.
(a) It shall be unlawful, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, to impose different terms, conditions or privileges relating to the sale or rental of a dwelling or to deny or limit services or facilities in connection with the sale or rental of a dwelling.
(b) Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Using different provisions in leases or contracts of sale, such as those relating to rental charges, security deposits and the terms of a lease and those relating to down payment and closing requirements, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Failing or delaying maintenance or repairs of sale or rental dwellings because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Failing to process an offer for the sale or rental of a dwelling or to communicate an offer accurately because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Limiting the use of privileges, services or facilities associated with a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of an owner, tenant or a person associated with him or her.
(5) Denying or limiting services or facilities in connection with the sale or rental of a dwelling, because a person failed or refused to provide sexual favors.
(6) Conditioning the terms, conditions, or privileges relating to the sale or rental of a dwelling, or denying or limiting the services or facilities in connection therewith, on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(7) Subjecting a person to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that has the effect of imposing different terms, conditions, or privileges relating to the sale or rental of a dwelling or denying or limiting services or facilities in connection with the sale or rental of a dwelling.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.70
Other prohibited sale and rental conduct.
(a) It shall be unlawful, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, to restrict or attempt to restrict the choices of a person by word or conduct in connection with seeking, negotiating for, buying or renting a dwelling so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to discourage or obstruct choices in a community, neighborhood or development.
(b) It shall be unlawful, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, to engage in any conduct relating to the provision of housing or of services and facilities in connection therewith that otherwise makes unavailable or denies dwellings to persons.
(c) Prohibited actions under paragraph (a) of this section, which are generally referred to as unlawful steering practices, include, but are not limited to:
(1) Discouraging any person from inspecting, purchasing or renting a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or because of the race,
color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of persons in a community, neighborhood or development.
(2) Discouraging the purchase or rental of a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, by exaggerating drawbacks or failing to inform any person of desirable features of a dwelling or of a community, neighborhood, or development.
(3) Communicating to any prospective purchaser that he or she would not be comfortable or compatible with existing residents of a community, neighborhood or development because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Assigning any person to a particular section of a community, neighborhood or development, or to a particular floor of a building, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(d) Prohibited activities relating to dwellings under paragraph (b) of this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Discharging or taking other adverse action against an employee, broker or agent because he or she refused to participate in a discriminatory housing practice.
(2) Employing codes or other devices to segregate or reject applicants, purchasers or renters, refusing to take or to show listings of dwellings in certain areas because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or refusing to deal with certain brokers or agents because they or one or more of their clients are of a particular race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Denying or delaying the processing of an application made by a purchaser or renter or refusing to approve such a person for occupancy in a cooperative or condominium dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Refusing to provide municipal services or property or hazard insurance for dwellings or providing such services or insurance differently because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(5) Enacting or implementing land-use rules, ordinances, procedures, building codes, permitting rules, policies, or requirements that restrict or deny housing opportunities or otherwise make unavailable or deny dwellings to persons because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 11481, Feb. 15, 2013; 85 FR 60332, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 64025, Oct. 9, 2020; 88 FR 19500, Mar. 31, 2023]
§ 100.75
Discriminatory advertisements, statements and notices.
(a) It shall be unlawful to make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published, any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling which indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
(b) The prohibitions in this section shall apply to all written or oral notices or statements by a person engaged in the sale or rental of a dwelling. Written notices and statements include any applications, flyers, brochures, deeds, signs, banners, posters, billboards or any documents used with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling.
(c) Discriminatory notices, statements and advertisements include, but are not limited to:
(1) Using words, phrases, photographs, illustrations, symbols or forms which convey that dwellings are available or not available to a particular group of persons because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Expressing to agents, brokers, employees, prospective sellers or renters or any other persons a preference for or limitation on any purchaser or renter because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of such persons.
(3) Selecting media or locations for advertising the sale or rental of dwellings which deny particular segments of
the housing market information about housing opportunities because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Refusing to publish advertising for the sale or rental of dwellings or requiring different charges or terms for such advertising because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(d) 24 CFR part 109 provides information to assist persons to advertise dwellings in a nondiscriminatory manner and describes the matters the Department will review in evaluating compliance with the Fair Housing Act and in investigating complaints alleging discriminatory housing practices involving advertising.
§ 100.80
Discriminatory representations on the availability of dwellings.
(a) It shall be unlawful, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, to provide inaccurate or untrue information about the availability of dwellings for sale or rental.
(b) Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Indicating through words or conduct that a dwelling which is available for inspection, sale, or rental has been sold or rented, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Representing that covenants or other deed, trust or lease provisions which purport to restrict the sale or rental of dwellings because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin preclude the sale of rental of a dwelling to a person.
(3) Enforcing covenants or other deed, trust, or lease provisions which preclude the sale or rental of a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Limiting information, by word or conduct, regarding suitably priced dwellings available for inspection, sale or rental, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(5) Providing false or inaccurate information regarding the availability of a dwelling for sale or rental to any person, including testers, regardless of whether such person is actually seeking housing, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(6) Representing to an applicant that a unit is unavailable because of the applicant's response to a request for a sexual favor or other harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.85
Blockbusting.
(a) It shall be unlawful, for profit, to induce or attempt to induce a person to sell or rent a dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin or with a handicap.
(b) In establishing a discriminatory housing practice under this section it is not necessary that there was in fact profit as long as profit was a factor for engaging in the blockbusting activity.
(c) Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Engaging, for profit, in conduct (including uninvited solicitations for listings) which conveys to a person that a neighborhood is undergoing or is about to undergo a change in the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of persons residing in it, in order to encourage the person to offer a dwelling for sale or rental.
(2) Encouraging, for profit, any person to sell or rent a dwelling through assertions that the entry or prospective entry of persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin, or with handicaps, can or will result in undesirable consequences for the project, neighborhood or community, such as a lowering of property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a decline in the quality of schools or other services or facilities.
§ 100.90
Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
(a) It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b) Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Setting different fees for access to or membership in a multiple listing service because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Denying or limiting benefits accruing to members in a real estate brokers' organization because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Imposing different standards or criteria for membership in a real estate sales or rental organization because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Establishing geographic boundaries or office location or residence requirements for access to or membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(5) Conditioning access to brokerage services on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(6) Subjecting a person to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that has the effect of discouraging or denying access to brokerage services.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]

# Subpart C—Discrimination in Residential Real Estate-Related Transactions
§ 100.110
Discriminatory practices in residential real estate-related transactions.
(a) This subpart provides the Department's interpretation of the conduct that is unlawful housing discrimination under section 805 of the Fair Housing Act.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
§ 100.115
Residential real estate-related transactions.
The term residential
real estate-related transactions
means:
(a) The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial assistance—
(1) For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling; or
(2) Secured by residential real estate; or
(b) The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
§ 100.120
Discrimination in the making of loans and in the provision of other financial assistance.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person or entity whose business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to discriminate against any person in making available loans or other financial assistance for a dwelling, or which is or is to be secured by a dwelling, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b) Practices prohibited under this section in connection with a residential real estate-related transaction include, but are not limited to:
(1) Failing or refusing to provide to any person information regarding the availability of loans or other financial assistance, application requirements,
procedures or standards for the review and approval of loans or financial assistance, or providing information which is inaccurate or different from that provided others, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Providing, failing to provide, or discouraging the receipt of loans or other financial assistance in a manner that discriminates in their denial rate or otherwise discriminates in their availability because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Conditioning the availability of a loan or other financial assistance on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Subjecting a person to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that affects the availability of a loan or other financial assistance.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 11481, Feb. 15, 2013; 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.125
Discrimination in the purchasing of loans.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person or entity engaged in the purchasing of loans or other debts or securities which support the purchase, construction, improvement, repair or maintenance of a dwelling, or which are secured by residential real estate, to refuse to purchase such loans, debts, or securities, or to impose different terms or conditions for such purchases, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b) Unlawful conduct under this section includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Purchasing loans or other debts or securities which relate to, or which are secured by dwellings in certain communities or neighborhoods but not in others because of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of persons in such neighborhoods or communities.
(2) Pooling or packaging loans or other debts or securities which relate to, or which are secured by, dwellings differently because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Imposing or using different terms or conditions on the marketing or sale of securities issued on the basis of loans or other debts or securities which relate to, or which are secured by, dwellings because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(c) This section does not prevent consideration, in the purchasing of loans, of factors justified by business necessity, including requirements of Federal law, relating to a transaction's financial security or to protection against default or reduction of the value of the security. Thus, this provision would not preclude considerations employed in normal and prudent transactions, provided that no such factor may in any way relate to race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
§ 100.130
Discrimination in the terms and conditions for making available loans or other financial assistance.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person or entity engaged in the making of loans or in the provision of other financial assistance relating to the purchase, construction, improvement, repair or maintenance of dwellings or which are secured by residential real estate to impose different terms or conditions for the availability of such loans or other financial assistance because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b) Unlawful conduct under this section includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Using different policies, practices or procedures in evaluating or in determining creditworthiness of any person in connection with the provision of any loan or other financial assistance for a dwelling or for any loan or other financial assistance which is secured by residential real estate because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Determining the type of loan or other financial assistance to be provided with respect to a dwelling, or fixing the amount, interest rate, cost, duration or other terms or conditions for a loan or other financial assistance for
a dwelling or which is secured by residential real estate, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(3) Servicing of loans or other financial assistance with respect to dwellings in a manner that discriminates, or servicing of loans or other financial assistance which are secured by residential real estate in a manner that discriminates, or providing such loans or financial assistance with other terms or conditions that discriminate, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(4) Conditioning an aspect of a loan or other financial assistance to be provided with respect to a dwelling, or the terms or conditions thereof, on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(5) Subjecting a person to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin that has the effect of imposing different terms or conditions for the availability of such loans or other financial assistance.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 11481, Feb. 15, 2013; 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.135
Unlawful practices in the selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business includes engaging in the selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property to discriminate against any person in making available such services, or in the performance of such services, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b) For the purposes of this section, the term appraisal means an estimate or opinion of the value of a specified residential real property made in a business context in connection with the sale, rental, financing or refinancing of a dwelling or in connection with any activity that otherwise affects the availability of a residential real estate-related transaction, whether the appraisal is oral or written, or transmitted formally or informally. The appraisal includes all written comments and other documents submitted as support for the estimate or opinion of value.
(c) Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of making or furnishing appraisals of residential real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(d) Practices which are unlawful under this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Using an appraisal of residential real property in connection with the sale, rental, or financing of any dwelling where the person knows or reasonably should know that the appraisal improperly takes into consideration race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Conditioning the terms of an appraisal of residential real property in connection with the sale, rental, or financing of a dwelling on a person's response to harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63074, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 100.140
General rules.
(a)
Voluntary self-testing and correction.
The report or results of a self-test a lender voluntarily conducts or authorizes are privileged as provided in this subpart if the lender has taken or is taking appropriate corrective action to address likely violations identified by the self-test. Data collection required by law or any governmental authority (federal, state, or local) is not voluntary.
(b)
Other privileges.
This subpart does not abrogate any evidentiary privilege otherwise provided by law.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.141
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Lender
means a person who engages in a residential real estate-related lending transaction.
Residential real estate-related lending transaction
means the making of a loan:
(1) For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or
(2) Secured by residential real estate.
Self-test
means any program, practice or study a lender voluntarily conducts or authorizes which is designed and used specifically to determine the extent or effectiveness of compliance with the Fair Housing Act. The self-test must create data or factual information that is not available and cannot be derived from loan files, application files, or other residential real estate-related lending transaction records. Self-testing includes, but is not limited to, using fictitious credit applicants (testers) or conducting surveys of applicants or customers, nor is it limited to the pre-application stage of loan processing.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.142
Types of information.
(a) The privilege under this subpart covers:
(1) The report or results of the self-test;
(2) Data or factual information created by the self-test;
(3) Workpapers, draft documents and final documents;
(4) Analyses, opinions, and conclusions if they directly result from the self-test report or results.
(b) The privilege does not cover:
(1) Information about whether a lender conducted a self-test, the methodology used or scope of the self-test, the time period covered by the self-test or the dates it was conducted;
(2) Loan files and application files, or other residential real estate-related lending transaction records (e.g., property appraisal reports, loan committee meeting minutes or other documents reflecting the basis for a decision to approve or deny a loan application, loan policies or procedures, underwriting standards, compensation records) and information or data derived from such files and records, even if such data has been aggregated, summarized or reorganized to facilitate analysis.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.143
Appropriate corrective action.
(a) The report or results of a self-test are privileged as provided in this subpart if the lender has taken or is taking appropriate corrective action to address likely violations identified by the self-test. Appropriate corrective action is required when a self-test shows it is more likely than not that a violation occurred even though no violation was adjudicated formally.
(b) A lender must take action reasonably likely to remedy the cause and effect of the likely violation and must:
(1) Identify the policies or practices that are the likely cause of the violation, such as inadequate or improper lending policies, failure to implement established policies, employee conduct, or other causes; and
(2) Assess the extent and scope of any likely violation, by determining which areas of operation are likely to be affected by those policies and practices, such as stages of the loan application process, types of loans, or the particular branch where the likely violation has occurred. Generally, the scope of the self-test governs the scope of the appropriate corrective action.
(c) Appropriate corrective action may include both prospective and remedial relief, except that to establish a privilege under this subpart:
(1) A lender is not required to provide remedial relief to a tester in a self-test;
(2) A lender is only required to provide remedial relief to an applicant identified by the self-test as one whose rights were more likely than not violated;
(3) A lender is not required to provide remedial relief to a particular applicant if the statute of limitations applicable to the violation expired before the lender obtained the results of the self-test or the applicant is otherwise ineligible for such relief.
(d) Depending on the facts involved, appropriate corrective action may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
(1) If the self-test identifies individuals whose applications were inappropriately processed, offering to extend credit if the applications were improperly denied; compensating such persons
for any damages, both out-of-pocket and compensatory;
(2) Correcting any institutional policies or procedures that may have contributed to the likely violation, and adopting new policies as appropriate;
(3) Identifying, and then training and/or disciplining the employees involved;
(4) Developing outreach programs, marketing strategies, or loan products to serve more effectively the segments of the lender's market that may have been affected by the likely violation; and
(5) Improving audit and oversight systems to avoid a recurrence of the likely violations.
(e) Determination of appropriate corrective action is fact-based. Not every corrective measure listed in paragraph (d) of this section need be taken for each likely violation.
(f) Taking appropriate corrective action is not an admission by a lender that a violation occurred.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.144
Scope of privilege.
The report or results of a self-test may not be obtained or used by an aggrieved person, complainant, department or agency in any:
(a) Proceeding or civil action in which a violation of the Fair Housing Act is alleged; or
(b) Examination or investigation relating to compliance with the Fair Housing Act.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.145
Loss of privilege.
(a) The self-test report or results are not privileged under this subpart if the lender or person with lawful access to the report or results:
(1) Voluntarily discloses any part of the report or results or any other information privileged under this subpart to any aggrieved person, complainant, department, agency, or to the public; or
(2) Discloses the report or results or any other information privileged under this subpart as a defense to charges a lender violated the Fair Housing Act; or
(3) Fails or is unable to produce self-test records or information needed to determine whether the privilege applies.
(b) Disclosures or other actions undertaken to carry out appropriate corrective action do not cause the lender to lose the privilege.
[62 FR 66432, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.146
Limited use of privileged information.
Notwithstanding § 100.145, the self-test report or results may be obtained and used by an aggrieved person, applicant, department or agency solely to determine a penalty or remedy after the violation of the Fair Housing Act has been adjudicated or admitted. Disclosures for this limited purpose may be used only for the particular proceeding in which the adjudication or admission is made. Information disclosed under this section remains otherwise privileged under this subpart.
[62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.147
Adjudication.
An aggrieved person, complainant, department or agency that challenges a privilege asserted under § 100.144 may seek a determination of the existence and application of that privilege in:
(a) A court of competent jurisdiction; or
(b) An administrative law proceeding with appropriate jurisdiction.
[62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 100.148
Effective date.
The privilege under this subpart applies to self-tests conducted both before and after January 30, 1998, except that a self-test conducted before January 30, 1998 is not privileged:
(a) If there was a court action or administrative proceeding before January 30, 1998, including the filing of a complaint alleging a violation of the Fair Housing Act with the Department or a substantially equivalent state or local agency; or
(b) If any part of the report or results were disclosed before January 30, 1998 to any aggrieved person, complainant, department or agency, or to the general public.
[62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]

# Subpart D—Prohibition Against Discrimination Because of Handicap
§ 100.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to effectuate sections 6 (a) and (b) and 15 of the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.
§ 100.201
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Accessible
when used with respect to the public and common use areas of a building containing covered multifamily dwellings, means that the public or common use areas of the building can be approached, entered, and used by individuals with physical disabilities. The phrase “
readily accessible to and usable by
” is synonymous with accessible. A public or common use area that complies with the appropriate requirements of ICC A117.1-2009, ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003, ICC/ANSI A117.1-1998, CABO/ANSI A117.1-1992, ANSI A117.1-1986 (all incorporated by reference, see § 100.201a) or a comparable standard is deemed “
accessible
” within the meaning of this paragraph.
Accessible route
means a continuous unobstructed path connecting accessible elements and spaces in a building or within a site that can be negotiated by a person with a severe disability using a wheelchair and that is also safe for and usable by people with other disabilities. Interior accessible routes may include corridors, floors, ramps, elevators, and lifts. Exterior accessible routes may include parking access aisles, curb ramps, walks, ramps, and lifts. A route that complies with the appropriate requirements of ICC A117.1-2009, ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003, ICC/ANSI A117.1-1998, CABO/ANSI A117.1-1992, ANSI A117.1-1986 (all incorporated by reference, see § 100.201a) or a comparable standard is an “
accessible route
” within the meaning of this paragraph.
Building
means a structure, facility or portion thereof that contains or serves one or more dwelling units.
Building entrance on an accessible route
means an accessible entrance to a building that is connected by an accessible route to public transportation stops, to accessible parking and passenger loading zones, or to public streets or sidewalks, if available. A building entrance that complies with ICC A117.1-2009, ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003, ICC/ANSI A117.1-1998, CABO/ANSI A117.1-1992, ANSI A117.1-1986 (all incorporated by reference, see § 100.201a) or a comparable standard is a “
building entrance on an accessible route
” within the meaning of this paragraph.
Common use areas
means rooms, spaces or elements inside or outside of a building that are made available for the use of residents of a building or the guests thereof. These areas include hallways, lounges, lobbies, laundry rooms, refuse rooms, mail rooms, recreational areas and passageways among and between buildings.
Controlled substance
means any drug or other substance, or immediate precursor included in the definition in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
Covered multifamily dwellings
means buildings consisting of 4 or more dwelling units if such buildings have one or more elevators; and ground floor dwelling units in other buildings consisting of 4 or more dwelling units.
Dwelling unit
means a single unit of residence for a family or one or more persons. Examples of dwelling units include: a single family home; an apartment unit within an apartment building; and in other types of dwellings in which sleeping accommodations are provided but toileting or cooking facilities are shared by occupants of more than one room or portion of the dwelling, rooms in which people sleep. Examples of the latter include dormitory rooms and sleeping accommodations in shelters intended for occupancy as a residence for homeless persons.
Entrance
means any access point to a building or portion of a building used by residents for the purpose of entering.
Exterior
means all areas of the premises outside of an individual dwelling unit.
First occupancy
means a building that has never before been used for any purpose.
Ground floor
means a floor of a building with a building entrance on an accessible route. A building may have more than one ground floor.
Handicap
means, with respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities; a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment. This term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance. For purposes of this part, an individual shall not be considered to have a handicap solely because that individual is a transvestite. As used in this definition:
(a)
Physical or mental impairment
includes:
(1) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genito-urinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(2) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than addiction caused by current, illegal use of a controlled substance) and alcoholism.
(b)
Major life activities
means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
(c)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(d)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means:
(1) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit one or more major life activities but that is treated by another person as constituting such a limitation;
(2) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of other toward such impairment; or
(3) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (a) of this definition but is treated by another person as having such an impairment.
Interior
means the spaces, parts, components or elements of an individual dwelling unit.
Modification
means any change to the public or common use areas of a building or any change to a dwelling unit.
Premises
means the interior or exterior spaces, parts, components or elements of a building, including individual dwelling units and the public and common use areas of a building.
Public use areas
means interior or exterior rooms or spaces of a building that are made available to the general public. Public use may be provided at a building that is privately or publicly owned.
Site
means a parcel of land bounded by a property line or a designated portion of a public right or way.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 73 FR 63615, Oct. 24, 2008; 85 FR 78962, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 100.201a
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street SW, Room 5240, Washington, DC 20410-0001, telephone number 202-708-2333, and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The phone numbers included in this section may also be reached by persons who are deaf or
hard of hearing, or have speech disabilities, by dialing 711 via teletype (TTY).
(b) American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036, 212.642.4900,
info@ansi.org. https://webstore.ansi.org.
(1) ANSI A117.1-1986, American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities: Providing Accessibility and Usability for Physically Handicapped People, 1986 edition, into §§ 100.201 and 100.205.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) International Code Council (ICC), 500 New Jersey Avenue NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20001-2070, telephone number 1-888-422-7233,
http://www.iccsafe.org/e/category.html.
(1) CABO/ANSI A117.1-1992, American National Standard: Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities, 1992 edition, into §§ 100.201 and 100.205.
(2) ICC/ANSI A117.1-1998, American National Standard: Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities, 1998 edition, into §§ 100.201 and 100.205.
(3) ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003, American National Standard: Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities, 2003 edition, into §§ 100.201 and 100.205.
(4) ICC A117.1-2009, Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities, 2009 edition, approved October 20, 2010, into §§ 100.201 and 100.205.
[85 FR 78962, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 100.202
General prohibitions against discrimination because of handicap.
(a) It shall be unlawful to discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of—
(1) That buyer or renter;
(2) A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
(3) Any person associated with that person.
(b) It shall be unlawful to discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of—
(1) That buyer or renter;
(2) A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
(3) Any person associated with that person.
(c) It shall be unlawful to make an inquiry to determine whether an applicant for a dwelling, a person intending to reside in that dwelling after it is so sold, rented or made available, or any person associated with that person, has a handicap or to make inquiry as to the nature or severity of a handicap of such a person. However, this paragraph does not prohibit the following inquiries, provided these inquiries are made of all applicants, whether or not they have handicaps:
(1) Inquiry into an applicant's ability to meet the requirements of ownership or tenancy;
(2) Inquiry to determine whether an applicant is qualified for a dwelling available only to persons with handicaps or to persons with a particular type of handicap;
(3) Inquiry to determine whether an applicant for a dwelling is qualified for a priority available to persons with handicaps or to persons with a particular type of handicap;
(4) Inquiring whether an applicant for a dwelling is a current illegal abuser or addict of a controlled substance;
(5) Inquiring whether an applicant has been convicted of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance.
(d) Nothing in this subpart requires that a dwelling be made available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
§ 100.203
Reasonable modifications of existing premises.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to permit, at the expense of a handicapped person, reasonable modifications of existing premises, occupied or to be occupied by a handicapped person, if the proposed modifications may be necessary to afford the handicapped person full enjoyment of the premises of a dwelling. In the case of a rental,
the landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted. The landlord may not increase for handicapped persons any customarily required security deposit. However, where it is necessary in order to ensure with reasonable certainty that funds will be available to pay for the restorations at the end of the tenancy, the landlord may negotiate as part of such a restoration agreement a provision requiring that the tenant pay into an interest bearing escrow account, over a reasonable period, a reasonable amount of money not to exceed the cost of the restorations. The interest in any such account shall accrue to the benefit of the tenant.
(b) A landlord may condition permission for a modification on the renter providing a reasonable description of the proposed modifications as well as reasonable assurances that the work will be done in a workmanlike manner and that any required building permits will be obtained.
(c) The application of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1):
A tenant with a handicap asks his or her landlord for permission to install grab bars in the bathroom at his or her own expense. It is necessary to reinforce the walls with blocking between studs in order to affix the grab bars. It is unlawful for the landlord to refuse to permit the tenant, at the tenant's own expense, from making the modifications necessary to add the grab bars. However, the landlord may condition permission for the modification on the tenant agreeing to restore the bathroom to the condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted. It would be reasonable for the landlord to require the tenant to remove the grab bars at the end of the tenancy. The landlord may also reasonably require that the wall to which the grab bars are to be attached be repaired and restored to its original condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted. However, it would be unreasonable for the landlord to require the tenant to remove the blocking, since the reinforced walls will not interfere in any way with the landlord's or the next tenant's use and enjoyment of the premises and may be needed by some future tenant.

# Example (2):
An applicant for rental housing has a child who uses a wheelchair. The bathroom door in the dwelling unit is too narrow to permit the wheelchair to pass. The applicant asks the landlord for permission to widen the doorway at the applicant's own expense. It is unlawful for the landlord to refuse to permit the applicant to make the modification. Further, the landlord may
not,
in usual circumstances, condition permission for the modification on the applicant paying for the doorway to be narrowed at the end of the lease because a wider doorway will not interfere with the landlord's or the next tenant's use and enjoyment of the premises.
§ 100.204
Reasonable accommodations.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford a handicapped person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling unit, including public and common use areas.
(b) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1):
A blind applicant for rental housing wants live in a dwelling unit with a seeing eye dog. The building has a
no pets
policy. It is a violation of § 100.204 for the owner or manager of the apartment complex to refuse to permit the applicant to live in the apartment with a seeing eye dog because, without the seeing eye dog, the blind person will not have an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.

# Example (2):
Progress Gardens is a 300 unit apartment complex with 450 parking spaces which are available to tenants and guests of Progress Gardens on a
first come first served
basis. John applies for housing in Progress Gardens. John is mobility impaired and is unable to walk more than a short distance and therefore requests that a parking space near his unit be reserved for him so he will not have to walk very far to get to his apartment. It is a violation of § 100.204 for the owner or manager of Progress Gardens to refuse to make this accommodation. Without a reserved space, John might be unable to live in Progress Gardens at all or, when he has to park in a space far from his unit, might have great difficulty getting from his car to his apartment unit. The accommodation therefore is necessary to afford John an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling. The accommodation is reasonable because it is feasible and practical under the circumstances.
§ 100.205
Design and construction requirements.
(a) Covered multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991
shall be designed and constructed to have at least one building entrance on an accessible route unless it is impractical to do so because of the terrain or unusual characteristics of the site. For purposes of this section, a covered multifamily dwelling shall be deemed to be designed and constructed for first occupancy on or before March 13, 1991, if the dwelling is occupied by that date, or if the last building permit or renewal thereof for the dwelling is issued by a State, County or local government on or before June 15, 1990. The burden of establishing impracticality because of terrain or unusual site characteristics is on the person or persons who designed or constructed the housing facility.
(b) The application of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1):
A real estate developer plans to construct six covered multifamily dwelling units on a site with a hilly terrain. Because of the terrain, it will be necessary to climb a long and steep stairway in order to enter the dwellings. Since there is no practical way to provide an accessible route to any of the dwellings, one need not be provided.

# Example (2):
A real estate developer plans to construct a building consisting of 10 units of multifamily housing on a waterfront site that floods frequently. Because of this unusual characteristic of the site, the builder plans to construct the building on stilts. It is customary for housing in the geographic area where the site is located to be built on stilts. The housing may lawfully be constructed on the proposed site on stilts even though this means that there will be no practical way to provide an accessible route to the building entrance.

# Example (3):
A real estate developer plans to construct a multifamily housing facility on a particular site. The developer would like the facility to be built on the site to contain as many units as possible. Because of the configuration and terrain of the site, it is possible to construct a building with 105 units on the site provided the site does not have an accessible route leading to the building entrance. It is also possible to construct a building on the site with an accessible route leading to the building entrance. However, such a building would have no more than 100 dwelling units. The building to be constructed on the site must have a building entrance on an accessible route because it is not impractical to provide such an entrance because of the terrain or unusual characteristics of the site.
(c) All covered multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991 with a building entrance on an accessible route shall be designed and constructed in such a manner that—
(1) The public and common use areas are readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all premises are sufficiently wide to allow passage by handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
(3) All premises within covered multifamily dwelling units contain the following features of adaptable design:
(i) An accessible route into and through the covered dwelling unit;
(ii) Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other environmental controls in accessible locations;
(iii) Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation of grab bars around the toilet, tub, shower, stall and shower seat, where such facilities are provided; and
(iv) Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
(d) The application of paragraph (c) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1):
A developer plans to construct a 100 unit condominium apartment building with one elevator. In accordance with paragraph (a), the building has at least one accessible route leading to an accessible entrance. All 100 units are covered multifamily dwelling units and they all must be designed and constructed so that they comply with the accessibility requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

# Example (2):
A developer plans to construct 30 garden apartments in a three story building. The building will not have an elevator. The building will have one accessible entrance which will be on the first floor. Since the building does not have an elevator, only the
ground floor
units are covered multifamily units. The
ground floor
is the first floor because that is the floor that has an accessible entrance. All of the dwelling units on the first floor must meet the accessibility requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and must have access to at least one of each type of public or common use area available for residents in the building.
(e)(1) Compliance with the appropriate requirements of ICC A117.1-2009, ICC/ANSI A117.1-2003, ICC/ANSI A117.1-1998, CABO/ANSI A117.1-1992, or ANSI
A117.1-1986 (all incorporated by reference, see § 100.201a), or suffices to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) The following also qualify as HUD-recognized safe harbors for compliance with the Fair Housing Act design and construction requirements:
(i) Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines, March 6, 1991, in conjunction with the Supplement to Notice of Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines: Questions and Answers About the Guidelines, June 28, 1994;
(ii) Fair Housing Act Design Manual, published by HUD in 1996, updated in 1998;
(iii) 2000 ICC Code Requirements for Housing Accessibility (CRHA), published by the International Code Council (ICC), October 2000 (with corrections contained in ICC-issued errata sheet), if adopted without modification and without waiver of any of the provisions;
(iv) 2000 International Building Code (IBC), as amended by the 2001 Supplement to the International Building Code (2001 IBC Supplement), if adopted without modification and without waiver of any of the provisions intended to address the Fair Housing Act's design and construction requirements;
(v) 2003 International Building Code (IBC), if adopted without modification and without waiver of any of the provisions intended to address the Fair Housing Act's design and construction requirements, and conditioned upon the ICC publishing and distributing a statement to jurisdictions and past and future purchasers of the 2003 IBC stating, “ICC interprets Section 1104.1, and specifically, the Exception to Section 1104.1, to be read together with Section 1107.4, and that the Code requires an accessible pedestrian route from site arrival points to accessible building entrances, unless site impracticality applies. Exception 1 to Section 1107.4 is not applicable to site arrival points for any Type B dwelling units because site impracticality is addressed under Section 1107.7.”
(vi) 2006 International Building Code; published by ICC, January 2006, with the January 31, 2007, erratum to correct the text missing from Section 1107.7.5, if adopted without modification and without waiver of any of the provisions intended to address the Fair Housing Act's design and construction requirements, and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2006 IBC Commentary;
(vii) 2009 International Building Code, published by ICC (
http://www.iccsafe.org
), and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2009 IBC Commentary;
(viii) 2012 International Building Code, published by ICC (
http://www.iccsafe.org
), and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2012 IBC Commentary;
(ix) 2015 International Building Code, published by ICC (
http://www.iccsafe.org
), and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2015 IBC Commentary; and
(x) 2018 International Building Code, published by ICC (
http://www.iccsafe.org
), and interpreted in accordance with the relevant 2018 IBC Commentary.
(3) HUD may propose safe harbors by
Federal Register
notification that provides for a minimum of 30 days public comment period. HUD will publish a final notification announcing safe harbors after considering public comments. Compliance with safe harbors established by
Federal Register
notification will satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(f) Compliance with a duly enacted law of a State or unit of general local government that includes the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(g)(1) It is the policy of HUD to encourage States and units of general local government to include, in their existing procedures for the review and approval of newly constructed covered multifamily dwellings, determinations as to whether the design and construction of such dwellings are consistent with paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(2) A State or unit of general local government may review and approve
newly constructed multifamily dwellings for the purpose of making determinations as to whether the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section are met.
(h) Determinations of compliance or noncompliance by a State or a unit of general local government under paragraph (f) or (g) of this section are not conclusive in enforcement proceedings under the Fair Housing Amendments Act.
(i) This subpart does not invalidate or limit any law of a State or political subdivision of a State that requires dwellings to be designed and constructed in a manner that affords handicapped persons greater access than is required by this subpart.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 11665, Mar. 20, 1991; 73 FR 63616, Oct. 24, 2008; 85 FR 78963, Dec. 8, 2020]

# Subpart E—Housing for Older Persons
§ 100.300
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to effectuate the exemption in the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 that relates to housing for older persons.
§ 100.301
Exemption.
(a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part do not apply to housing which satisfies the requirements of §§ 100.302, 100.303 or § 100.304.
(b) Nothing in this part limits the applicability of any reasonable local, State, or Federal restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling.
§ 100.302
State and Federal elderly housing programs.
The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing provided under any Federal or State program that the Secretary determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons, as defined in the State or Federal program.
§ 100.303
62 or over housing.
(a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or older. Housing satisfies the requirements of this section even though:
(1) There are persons residing in such housing on September 13, 1988 who are under 62 years of age, provided that all new occupants are persons 62 years of age or older;
(2) There are unoccupied units, provided that such units are reserved for occupancy by persons 62 years of age or over;
(3) There are units occupied by employees of the housing (and family members residing in the same unit) who are under 62 years of age provided they perform substantial duties directly related to the management or maintenance of the housing.
(b) The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (a) of this section:

# Example (1):
John and Mary apply for housing at the Vista Heights apartment complex which is an elderly housing complex operated for persons 62 years of age or older. John is 62 years of age. Mary is 59 years of age. If Vista Heights wishes to retain its “62 or over” exemption it must refuse to rent to John and Mary because Mary is under 62 years of age. However, if Vista Heights does rent to John and Mary, it might qualify for the “55 or over” exemption in § 100.304.

# Example (2):
The Blueberry Hill retirement community has 100 dwelling units. On September 13, 1988, 15 units were vacant and 35 units were occupied with at least one person who is under 62 years of age. The remaining 50 units were occupied by persons who were all 62 years of age or older. Blueberry Hill can qualify for the “62 or over” exemption as long as all units that were occupied after September 13, 1988 are occupied by persons who were 62 years of age or older. The people under 62 in the 35 units previously described need not be required to leave for Blueberry Hill to qualify for the “62 or over” exemption.
§ 100.304
Housing for persons who are 55 years of age or older.
(a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing intended and operated for persons 55 years of age or older. Housing qualifies for this exemption if:
(1) The alleged violation occurred before December 28, 1995 and the housing community or facility complied with the HUD regulations in effect at the time of the alleged violation; or
(2) The alleged violation occurred on or after December 28, 1995 and the housing community or facility complies with:
(i) Section 807(b)(2)(C) (42 U.S.C. 3607(b)) of the Fair Housing Act as amended; and
(ii) 24 CFR 100.305, 100.306, and 100.307.
(b) For purposes of this subpart,
housing facility or community
means any dwelling or group of dwelling units governed by a common set of rules, regulations or restrictions. A portion or portions of a single building shall not constitute a housing facility or community. Examples of a housing facility or community include, but are not limited to:
(1) A condominium association;
(2) A cooperative;
(3) A property governed by a homeowners' or resident association;
(4) A municipally zoned area;
(5) A leased property under common private ownership;
(6) A mobile home park; and
(7) A manufactured housing community.
(c) For purposes of this subpart,
older person
means a person 55 years of age or older.
[64 FR 16329, Apr. 2, 1999]
§ 100.305
80 percent occupancy.
(a) In order for a housing facility or community to qualify as housing for older persons under § 100.304, at least 80 percent of its occupied units must be occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older.
(b) For purposes of this subpart,
occupied unit
means:
(1) A dwelling unit that is actually occupied by one or more persons on the date that the exemption is claimed; or
(2) A temporarily vacant unit, if the primary occupant has resided in the unit during the past year and intends to return on a periodic basis.
(c) For purposes of this subpart,
occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older
means that on the date the exemption for housing designed for persons who are 55 years of age or older is claimed:
(1) At least one occupant of the dwelling unit is 55 years of age or older; or
(2) If the dwelling unit is temporarily vacant, at least one of the occupants immediately prior to the date on which the unit was temporarily vacated was 55 years of age or older.
(d) Newly constructed housing for first occupancy after March 12, 1989 need not comply with the requirements of this section until at least 25 percent of the units are occupied. For purposes of this section, newly constructed housing includes a facility or community that has been wholly unoccupied for at least 90 days prior to re-occupancy due to renovation or rehabilitation.
(e) Housing satisfies the requirements of this section even though:
(1) On September 13, 1988, under 80 percent of the occupied units in the housing facility or community were occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older, provided that at least 80 percent of the units occupied by new occupants after September 13, 1988 are occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older.
(2) There are unoccupied units, provided that at least 80 percent of the occupied units are occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older.
(3) There are units occupied by employees of the housing facility or community (and family members residing in the same unit) who are under 55 years of age, provided the employees perform substantial duties related to the management or maintenance of the facility or community.
(4) There are units occupied by persons who are necessary to provide a reasonable accommodation to disabled residents as required by § 100.204 and who are under the age of 55.
(5) For a period expiring one year from the effective date of this final regulation, there are insufficient units occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older, but the housing facility or community, at the time the exemption is asserted:
(i) Has reserved all unoccupied units for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older until at least 80 percent of the units are occupied by at least one person who is 55 years of age or older; and
(ii) Meets the requirements of §§ 100.304, 100.306, and 100.307.
(f) For purposes of the transition provision described in § 100.305(e)(5), a housing facility or community may not evict, refuse to renew leases, or otherwise penalize families with children who reside in the facility or community in order to achieve occupancy of at least 80 percent of the occupied units by at least one person 55 years of age or older.
(g) Where application of the 80 percent rule results in a fraction of a unit, that unit shall be considered to be included in the units that must be occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older.
(h) Each housing facility or community may determine the age restriction, if any, for units that are not occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older, so long as the housing facility or community complies with the provisions of § 100.306.
[64 FR 16329, Apr. 2, 1999]
§ 100.306
Intent to operate as housing designed for persons who are 55 years of age or older.
(a) In order for a housing facility or community to qualify as housing designed for persons who are 55 years of age or older, it must publish and adhere to policies and procedures that demonstrate its intent to operate as housing for persons 55 years of age or older. The following factors, among others, are considered relevant in determining whether the housing facility or community has complied with this requirement:
(1) The manner in which the housing facility or community is described to prospective residents;
(2) Any advertising designed to attract prospective residents;
(3) Lease provisions;
(4) Written rules, regulations, covenants, deed or other restrictions;
(5) The maintenance and consistent application of relevant procedures;
(6) Actual practices of the housing facility or community; and
(7) Public posting in common areas of statements describing the facility or community as housing for persons 55 years of age or older.
(b) Phrases such as “adult living”, “adult community”, or similar statements in any written advertisement or prospectus are not consistent with the intent that the housing facility or community intends to operate as housing for persons 55 years of age or older.
(c) If there is language in deed or other community or facility documents which is inconsistent with the intent to provide housing for persons who are 55 years of age or older housing, HUD shall consider documented evidence of a good faith attempt to remove such language in determining whether the housing facility or community complies with the requirements of this section in conjunction with other evidence of intent.
(d) A housing facility or community may allow occupancy by families with children as long as it meets the requirements of §§ 100.305 and 100.306(a).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0046)
[64 FR 16330, Apr. 2, 1999]
§ 100.307
Verification of occupancy.
(a) In order for a housing facility or community to qualify as housing for persons 55 years of age or older, it must be able to produce, in response to a complaint filed under this title, verification of compliance with § 100.305 through reliable surveys and affidavits.
(b) A facility or community shall, within 180 days of the effective date of this rule, develop procedures for routinely determining the occupancy of each unit, including the identification of whether at least one occupant of each unit is 55 years of age or older. Such procedures may be part of a normal leasing or purchasing arrangement.
(c) The procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section must provide for regular updates, through surveys or other means, of the initial information supplied by the occupants of the housing facility or community. Such updates must take place at least once every two years. A survey may include information regarding whether any units are occupied by persons described in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(3), and (e)(4) of § 100.305.
(d) Any of the following documents are considered reliable documentation of the age of the occupants of the housing facility or community:
(1) Driver's license;
(2) Birth certificate;
(3) Passport;
(4) Immigration card;
(5) Military identification;
(6) Any other state, local, national, or international official documents containing a birth date of comparable reliability; or
(7) A certification in a lease, application, affidavit, or other document signed by any member of the household age 18 or older asserting that at least one person in the unit is 55 years of age or older.
(e) A facility or community shall consider any one of the forms of verification identified above as adequate for verification of age, provided that it contains specific information about current age or date of birth.
(f) The housing facility or community must establish and maintain appropriate policies to require that occupants comply with the age verification procedures required by this section.
(g) If the occupants of a particular dwelling unit refuse to comply with the age verification procedures, the housing facility or community may, if it has sufficient evidence, consider the unit to be occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older. Such evidence may include:
(1) Government records or documents, such as a local household census;
(2) Prior forms or applications; or
(3) A statement from an individual who has personal knowledge of the age of the occupants. The individual's statement must set forth the basis for such knowledge and be signed under the penalty of perjury.
(h) Surveys and verification procedures which comply with the requirements of this section shall be admissible in administrative and judicial proceedings for the purpose of verifying occupancy.
(i) A summary of occupancy surveys shall be available for inspection upon reasonable notice and request by any person.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0046)
[64 FR 16330, Apr. 2, 1999]
§ 100.308
Good faith defense against civil money damages.
(a) A person shall not be held personally liable for monetary damages for discriminating on the basis of familial status, if the person acted with the good faith belief that the housing facility or community qualified for a housing for older persons exemption under this subpart.
(b)(1) A person claiming the good faith belief defense must have actual knowledge that the housing facility or community has, through an authorized representative, asserted in writing that it qualifies for a housing for older persons exemption.
(2) Before the date on which the discrimination is claimed to have occurred, a community or facility, through its authorized representatives, must certify, in writing and under oath or affirmation, to the person subsequently claiming the defense that it complies with the requirements for such an exemption as housing for persons 55 years of age or older in order for such person to claim the defense.
(3) For purposes of this section, an authorized representative of a housing facility or community means the individual, committee, management company, owner, or other entity having the responsibility for adherence to the requirements established by this subpart.
(4) For purposes of this section, a person means a natural person.
(5) A person shall not be entitled to the good faith defense if the person has actual knowledge that the housing facility or community does not, or will not, qualify as housing for persons 55 years of age or older. Such a person will be ineligible for the good faith defense regardless of whether the person received the written assurance described in paragraph (b) of this section.
[64 FR 16330, Apr. 2, 1999]

# Subpart F—Interference, Coercion or Intimidation
§ 100.400
Prohibited interference, coercion or intimidation.
(a) This subpart provides the Department's interpretation of the conduct that is unlawful under section 818 of the Fair Housing Act.
(b) It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of that person having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of that person having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this part.
(c) Conduct made unlawful under this section includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Coercing a person, either orally, in writing, or by other means, to deny or limit the benefits provided that person in connection with the sale or rental of a dwelling or in connection with a residential real estate-related transaction because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(2) Threatening, intimidating or interfering with persons in their enjoyment of a dwelling because of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of such persons, or of visitors or associates of such persons.
(3) Threatening an employee or agent with dismissal or an adverse employment action, or taking such adverse employment action, for any effort to assist a person seeking access to the sale or rental of a dwelling or seeking access to any residential real estate-related transaction, because of the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of that person or of any person associated with that person.
(4) Intimidating or threatening any person because that person is engaging in activities designed to make other persons aware of, or encouraging such other persons to exercise, rights granted or protected by this part.
(5) Retaliating against any person because that person has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in a proceeding under the Fair Housing Act.
(6) Retaliating against any person because that person reported a discriminatory housing practice to a housing provider or other authority.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 63075, Sept. 14, 2016]

# Subpart G—Discriminatory Effect
§ 100.500
Discriminatory effect prohibited.
Liability may be established under the Fair Housing Act based on a practice's discriminatory effect, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, even if the practice was not motivated by a discriminatory intent. The practice may still be lawful if supported by a legally sufficient justification, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. The burdens of proof for establishing a violation under this subpart are set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(a)
Discriminatory effect.
A practice has a discriminatory effect where it actually or predictably results in a disparate impact on a group of persons or creates, increases, reinforces, or perpetuates segregated housing patterns because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(b)
Legally sufficient justification.
(1) A legally sufficient justification exists where the challenged practice:
(i) Is necessary to achieve one or more substantial, legitimate, nondiscriminatory interests of the respondent, with respect to claims brought under 42 U.S.C. 3612, or defendant, with respect to claims brought under 42 U.S.C. 3613 or 3614; and
(ii) Those interests could not be served by another practice that has a less discriminatory effect.
(2) A legally sufficient justification must be supported by evidence and may not be hypothetical or speculative. The burdens of proof for establishing each of the two elements of a legally sufficient justification are set forth in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(c)
Burdens of proof in discriminatory effects cases.
(1) The charging party, with respect to a claim brought under 42 U.S.C. 3612, or the plaintiff, with respect to a claim brought under 42 U.S.C. 3613 or 3614, has the burden of proving that a challenged practice caused or predictably will cause a discriminatory effect.
(2) Once the charging party or plaintiff satisfies the burden of proof set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the respondent or defendant has the
burden of proving that the challenged practice is necessary to achieve one or more substantial, legitimate, nondiscriminatory interests of the respondent or defendant.
(3) If the respondent or defendant satisfies the burden of proof set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the charging party or plaintiff may still prevail upon proving that the substantial, legitimate, nondiscriminatory interests supporting the challenged practice could be served by another practice that has a less discriminatory effect.
(d)
Relationship to discriminatory intent.
A demonstration that a practice is supported by a legally sufficient justification, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, may not be used as a defense against a claim of intentional discrimination.
[88 FR 19500, Mar. 31, 2023]

# Subpart H— Quid Pro Quo and Hostile Environment Harassment

# Source:
81 FR 63075, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.600
Quid pro quo and hostile environment harassment.
(a)
General.
Quid pro quo and hostile environment harassment because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin or handicap may violate sections 804, 805, 806 or 818 of the Act, depending on the conduct. The same conduct may violate one or more of these provisions.
(1)
Quid pro quo harassment.
Quid pro quo harassment refers to an unwelcome request or demand to engage in conduct where submission to the request or demand, either explicitly or implicitly, is made a condition related to: The sale, rental or availability of a dwelling; the terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale or rental, or the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith; or the availability, terms, or conditions of a residential real estate-related transaction. An unwelcome request or demand may constitute quid pro quo harassment even if a person acquiesces in the unwelcome request or demand.
(2)
Hostile environment harassment.
Hostile environment harassment refers to unwelcome conduct that is sufficiently severe or pervasive as to interfere with: The availability, sale, rental, or use or enjoyment of a dwelling; the terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale or rental, or the provision or enjoyment of services or facilities in connection therewith; or the availability, terms, or conditions of a residential real estate-related transaction. Hostile environment harassment does not require a change in the economic benefits, terms, or conditions of the dwelling or housing-related services or facilities, or of the residential real-estate transaction.
(i)
Totality of the circumstances.
Whether hostile environment harassment exists depends upon the totality of the circumstances.
(A) Factors to be considered to determine whether hostile environment harassment exists include, but are not limited to, the nature of the conduct, the context in which the incident(s) occurred, the severity, scope, frequency, duration, and location of the conduct, and the relationships of the persons involved.
(B) Neither psychological nor physical harm must be demonstrated to prove that a hostile environment exists. Evidence of psychological or physical harm may, however, be relevant in determining whether a hostile environment existed and, if so, the amount of damages to which an aggrieved person may be entitled.
(C) Whether unwelcome conduct is sufficiently severe or pervasive as to create a hostile environment is evaluated from the perspective of a reasonable person in the aggrieved person's position.
(ii)
Title VII affirmative defense.
The affirmative defense to an employer's vicarious liability for hostile environment harassment by a supervisor under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not apply to cases brought pursuant to the Fair Housing Act.
(b)
Type of conduct.
Harassment can be written, verbal, or other conduct, and does not require physical contact.
(c)
Number of incidents.
A single incident of harassment because of race,
color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, or handicap may constitute a discriminatory housing practice, where the incident is sufficiently severe to create a hostile environment, or evidences a quid pro quo.
Pt. 103

# PART 103—FAIR HOUSING—COMPLAINT PROCESSING

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
103.1
Purpose and applicability.
103.5
Other civil rights authorities.
103.9
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Complaints
103.10
What can I do if I believe someone is discriminating against me in the sale, rental, finance, or advertisement of housing?
103.15
Can I file a claim if the discrimination has not yet occurred?
103.20
Can someone help me with filing a claim?
103.25
What information should I provide to HUD?
103.30
How should I bring a claim that I am the victim of discrimination?
103.35
Is there a time limit on when I can file?
103.40
Can I change my complaint after it is filed?

# Subpart C—Referral of Complaints to State and Local Agencies
103.100
Notification and referral to substantially equivalent State or local agencies.
103.105
Cessation of action on referred complaints.
103.110
Reactivation of referred complaints.
103.115
Notification upon reactivation.

# Subpart D—Investigation Procedures
103.200
Investigations.
103.201
Service of notice on aggrieved person.
103.202
Notification of respondent; joinder of additional or substitute respondents.
103.203
Answer to complaint.
103.204
HUD complaints and compliance reviews.
103.205
Systemic processing.
103.215
Conduct of investigation.
103.220
Cooperation of Federal, State and local agencies.
103.225
Completion of investigation.
103.230
Final investigative report.

# Subpart E—Conciliation Procedures
103.300
Conciliation.
103.310
Conciliation agreement.
103.315
Relief sought for aggrieved persons.
103.320
Provisions sought for the public interest.
103.325
Termination of conciliation efforts.
103.330
Prohibitions and requirements with respect to disclosure of information obtained during conciliation.
103.335
Review of compliance with conciliation agreements.

# Subpart F—Issuance of Charge
103.400
Reasonable cause determination.
103.405
Issuance of charge.
103.410
Election of civil action or provision of administrative proceeding.

# Subpart G—Prompt Judicial Action
103.500
Prompt judicial action.

# Subpart H—Other Action
103.510
Other action by HUD.
103.515
Action by other agencies.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 3600-3619.

# Source:
54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 103.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This part contains the procedures established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development for the investigation and conciliation of complaints under section 810 of the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. 3610.
(b) This part applies to:
(1) Complaints alleging discriminatory housing practices because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin; and
(2) Complaints alleging discriminatory housing practices on account of handicap or familial status occurring on or after March 12, 1989.
(c) Part 180 of this chapter governs the administrative proceedings before an administrative law judge adjudicating charges issued under § 103.405.
(d) The Department will reasonably accommodate persons with disabilities who are participants in complaint processing.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 103.5
Other civil rights authorities.
In addition to the Fair Housing Act, other civil rights authorities may be applicable in a particular case. Thus, where a person charged with a discriminatory housing practice in a complaint filed under section 810 of the Fair Housing Act is also prohibited from engaging in similar practices under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-5), section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5309), Executive Order 11063 of November 20, 1962, on Equal Opportunity in Housing (27 FR 11527-11530, November 24, 1962), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Age Discrimination Act (42 U.S.C. 6101) or other applicable law, the person may also be subject to action by HUD or other Federal agencies under the rules, regulations, and procedures prescribed under title VI (24 CFR parts 1 and 2), section 109 (24 CFR 570.602)), Executive Order 11063 (24 CFR part 107), section 504 (24 CFR part 8), or other applicable law.
§ 103.9
Definitions.
The terms
Fair Housing Act, General Counsel,
and
HUD
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Aggrieved person
includes any person who:
(a) Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
(b) Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity in HUD.
Attorney General
means the Attorney General of the United States.
Complainant
means the person (including the Assistant Secretary) who files a complaint under this part.
Conciliation
means the attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint, or by the investigation of a complaint, through informal negotiations involving the aggrieved person, the respondent, and the Assistant Secretary.
Conciliation agreement
means a written agreement setting forth the resolution of the issues in conciliation.
Discriminatory housing practice
means an act that is unlawful under section 804, 805, 806 or 818 of the Fair Housing Act, as described in part 100.
Dwelling
means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
Person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustee in cases under title 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
Personal service
means handing a copy of the document to the person to be served or leaving a copy of the document with a person of suitable age and discretion at the place of business, residence or usual place of abode of the person to be served.
Receipt of notice
means the day that personal service is completed by handing or delivering a copy of the document to an appropriate person or the date that a document is delivered by certified mail.
Respondent
means:
(a) The person or other entity accused in a complaint of a discriminatory housing practice; and
(b) Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation and notified as required under § 103.50.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any of the territories and possessions of the United States.
Substantially equivalent State or local agency
means a State or local agency certified by HUD under 24 CFR part 115 (including agencies certified for interim referrals).
To rent
includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Complaints
§ 103.10
What can I do if I believe someone is discriminating against me in the sale, rental, finance, or advertisement of housing?
You can notify HUD if you believe there has been discrimination against you in any activity related to housing because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or the presence of children under the age of 18 in a household.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.15
Can I file a claim if the discrimination has not yet occurred?
Yes, you may file a claim with HUD if you have knowledge that a discriminatory action is about to occur.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.20
Can someone help me with filing a claim?
HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity can help you in filing a claim, if you contact them directly. You, or anyone who acts for you, may also ask any HUD office or an organization, individual, or attorney to help you.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.25
What information should I provide to HUD?
You should provide us with:
(a) Your name, address, and telephone numbers where you can be reached;
(b) The name and address of the persons, businesses, or organizations you believe discriminated against you;
(c) If there is a specific property involved, you should provide the property's address and physical description, such as apartment, condominium, house, or vacant lot; and
(d) A brief description of how you were discriminated against in an activity related to housing. You should include in this description the date when the discrimination happened and why you believe the discrimination occurred because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or the presence of children under the age of 18 in a household.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.30
How should I bring a claim that I am the victim of discrimination?
(a) You can file a claim by mail or telephone with any of HUD's Offices of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity or with any State or local agency that HUD has certified to receive complaints.
(b) You can call or go to any other HUD office for help in filing a claim. These offices will send your claim to HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, which will contact you about the filing of your complaint.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.35
Is there a time limit on when I can file?
Yes, you must notify us within one year that you are a victim of discrimination. If you indicate that there is more than one act of discrimination, or that the discrimination is continuing, we must receive your information within one year of the last incident of discrimination.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.40
Can I change my complaint after it is filed?
(a) Yes, you may change your fair housing complaint:
(1) At any time to add or remove people according to the law and the facts; or
(2) To correct other items, such as to add additional information found during the investigation of the complaint.
(b) You must approve any change to your complaint; we will consider the changes made as of the date of your original complaint.
[64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]

# Subpart C—Referral of Complaints to State and Local Agencies
§ 103.100
Notification and referral to substantially equivalent State or local agencies.
(a) Whenever a complaint alleges a discriminatory housing practice that is
within the jurisdiction of a substantially equivalent State or local agency and the agency is certified or may accept interim referrals under 24 CFR part 115 with regard to the alleged discriminatory housing practice, the Assistant Secretary will notify the agency of the filing of the complaint and refer the complaint to the agency for further processing before HUD takes any action with respect to the complaint. The Assistant Secretary will notify the State or local agency of the referral by certified mail.
(b) The Assistant Secretary will notify the aggrieved person and the respondent, by certified mail or personal service, of the notification and referral under paragraph (a) of this section. The notice will advise the aggrieved person and the respondent of the aggrieved person's right to commence a civil action under section 813 of the Fair Housing Act in an appropriate United States District Court, not later than two years after the occurrence or termination of the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will state that the computation of this two-year period excludes any time during which a proceeding is pending under this part or part 180 with respect to complaint or charge based on the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will also state that the time period includes the time during which an action arising from a breach of a conciliation agreement under section 814(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act is pending.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996]
§ 103.105
Cessation of action on referred complaints.
A referral under § 103.100 does not prohibit the Assistant Secretary from taking appropriate action to review or investigate matters in the complaint that raise issues cognizable under other civil rights authorities applicable to departmental programs (see § 103.5).
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 14379, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 103.110
Reactivation of referred complaints.
The Assistant Secretary may reactivate a complaint referred under § 103.100 for processing by HUD if:
(a) The substantially equivalent State or local agency consents or requests the reactivation;
(b) The Assistant Secretary determines that, with respect to the alleged discriminatory housing practice, the agency no longer qualifies for certification as a substantially equivalent State or local agency and may not accept interim referrals; or
(c) The substantially equivalent State or local agency has failed to commence proceedings with respect to the complaint within 30 days of the date that it received the notification and referral of the complaint; or the agency commenced proceedings within this 30-day period, but the Assistant Secretary determines that the agency has failed to carry the proceedings forward with reasonable promptness.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 14379, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 103.115
Notification upon reactivation.
(a) Whenever a complaint referred to a State or local fair housing agency under § 103.100 is reactivated under § 103.110, the Assistant Secretary will notify the substantially equivalent State or local agency, the aggrieved person and the respondent of HUD's reactivation. The notification will be made by certified mail or personal service.
(b) The notification to the respondent and the aggrieved person will:
(1) Advise the aggrieved person and the respondent of the time limits applicable to complaint processing and the procedural rights and obligations of the aggrieved person and the respondent under this part and part 180.
(2) State that HUD will process the complaint under the Fair Housing Act and that the State or local agency to which the complaint was referred may continue to process the complaint under State or local law.
(3) Advise the aggrieved person and the respondent of the aggrieved person's right to commence a civil action under section 813 of the Fair Housing
Act in an appropriate United States District Court, not later than two years after the occurrence or termination of the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will state that the computation of this two-year period excludes any time during which a proceeding is pending under this part or part 180 with respect to a complaint or charge based on the alleged discriminatory housing practice under part 180. The notices will also state that the time period includes the time during which an action arising from a breach of conciliation agreement under section 814(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act is pending.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996]

# Subpart D—Investigation Procedures
§ 103.200
Investigations.
(a) Upon the filing of a complaint under § 103.40, the Assistant Secretary will initiate an investigation. The purposes of an investigation are:
(1) To obtain information concerning the events or transactions that relate to the alleged discriminatory housing practice identified in the complaint.
(2) To document policies or practices of the respondent involved in the alleged discriminatory housing practice raised in the complaint.
(3) To develop factual data necessary for the General Counsel to make a determination under § 103.400 whether reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, and for the Assistant Secretary to make a determination under § 103.400 that no reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, and to take other actions provided under this part.
(b) Upon the written direction of the Assistant Secretary, HUD may initate an investigation of housing practices to determine whether a complaint should be filed under subpart B of this part. Such investigations will be conducted in accordance with the procedures described under this subpart.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 53293, Dec. 28, 1990, 57 FR 39116, Aug. 28, 1992]
§ 103.201
Service of notice on aggrieved person.
Upon the filing of a complaint, the Assistant Secretary will notify, by certified mail or personal service, each aggrieved person on whose behalf the complaint was filed. The notice will:
(a) Acknowledge the filing of the complaint and state the date that the complaint was accepted for filing.
(b) Include a copy of the complaint.
(c) Advise the aggrieved person of the time limits applicable to complaint processing and of the procedural rights and obligations of the aggrieved person under this part and part 180.
(d) Advise the aggrieved person of his or her right to commence a civil action under section 813 of the Fair Housing Act in an appropriate United States District Court, not later than two years after the occurrence or termination of the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will state that the computation of this two-year period excludes any time during which a proceeding is pending under this part or part 180 with respect to a complaint or charge based on the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The notice will also state that the time period includes the time during which an action arising from a breach of a conciliation agreement under section 814(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act is pending.
(e) Advise the aggrieved person that retaliation against any person because he or she made a complaint or testified, assisted, or participated in an investigation or conciliation under this part or an administrative proceeding under part 180, is a discriminatory housing practice that is prohibited under section 818 of the Fair Housing Act.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996. Redesignated at 64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.202
Notification of respondent; joinder of additional or substitute respondents.
(a) Within ten days of the filing of a complaint under § 103.40 or the filing of an amended complaint under § 103.42, the Assistant Secretary will serve a notice on each respondent by certified mail or by personal service. A person who is not named as a respondent in a complaint, but who is identified in the course of the investigation under subpart D of this part as a person who is alleged to be engaged, to have engaged, or to be about to engage in the discriminatory housing practice upon which the complaint is based may be joined as an additional or substitute respondent by service of a notice on the person under this section within ten days of the identification.
(b) The Assistant Secretary will also serve notice on any person who directs or controls, or who has the right to direct or control, the conduct of another person who is involved in a fair housing complaint.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 18540, 18541, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.203
Answer to complaint.
(a) The respondent may file an answer not later than ten days after receipt of the notice described in § 103.50. The respondent may assert any defense that might be available to a defendant in a court of law. The answer must be signed and affirmed by the respondent. The affirmation must state: “I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.”
(b) An answer may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time with the consent of the Assistant Secretary.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989. Redesignated at 64 FR 18540, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.204
HUD complaints and compliance reviews.
(a) The Assistant Secretary may conduct an investigation and file a complaint under this subpart based on information that one or more discriminatory housing practices has occurred, or is about to occur.
(b) HUD may also initiate compliance reviews under other appropriate civil rights authorities, such as E.O. 11063 on Equal Opportunity in Housing, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 or the Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
(c) HUD may also make the information you provide available to other Federal, State, or local agencies having an interest in the matter. In making such information available, HUD will take steps to protect the confidentiality of any informant or complainant when desired by the informant or complainant.
[64 FR 18541, Apr. 14, 1999]
§ 103.205
Systemic processing.
Where the Assistant Secretary determines that the alleged discriminatory practices contained in a complaint are pervasive or institutional in nature, or that the processing of the complaint will involve complex issues, novel questions of fact or law, or will affect a large number of persons, the Assistant Secretary may identify the complaint for systemic processing. This determination can be based on the face of the complaint or on information gathered in connection with an investigation. Systemic investigations may focus not only on documenting facts involved in the alleged discriminatory housing practice that is the subject of the complaint but also on review of other policies and procedures related to matters under investigation, to make sure that they also comply with the nondiscrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act.
§ 103.215
Conduct of investigation.
(a) In conducting investigations under this part, the Assistant Secretary will seek the voluntary cooperation of all persons to obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other possible sources of information; to examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and to take and record testimony or statements of persons reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
(b) The Assistant Secretary may conduct and order discovery in aid of the investigation by the same methods and to the same extent that discovery may
be ordered in an administrative proceeding under 24 CFR part 180, except that the Assistant Secretary shall have the power to issue subpoenas described in 24 CFR 180.545 in support of the investigation. Subpoenas issued by the Assistant Secretary must be approved by the General Counsel as to their legality before issuance.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 41482, Aug. 8, 1996; 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996; 62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]
§ 103.220
Cooperation of Federal, State and local agencies.
The Assistant Secretary, in processing Fair Housing Act complaints, may seek the cooperation and utilize the services of Federal, State or local agencies, including any agency having regulatory or supervisory authority over financial institutions.
§ 103.225
Completion of investigation.
The investigation will remain open until a determination is made under § 103.400, or a conciliation agreement is executed and approved under § 103.310. Unless it is impracticable to do so, the Assistant Secretary will complete the investigation of the alleged discriminatory housing practice within 100 days of the filing of the complaint (or where the Assistant Secretary reactivates the complaint, within 100 days after service of the notice of reactivation under § 103.115). If the Assistant Secretary is unable to complete the investigation within the 100-day period, HUD will notify the aggrieved person and the respondent, by mail, of the reasons for the delay.
[61 FR 14380, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 103.230
Final investigative report.
(a) At the end of each investigation under this part, the Assistant Secretary will prepare a final investigative report. The investigative report will contain:
(1) The names and dates of contacts with witnesses, except that the report will not disclose the names of witnesses that request anonymity. HUD, however, may be required to disclose the names of such witnesses in the course of an administrative hearing under part 180 of this chapter or a civil action under title VIII of the Fair Housing Act;
(2) A summary and the dates of correspondence and other contacts with the aggrieved person and the respondent;
(3) A summary description of other pertinent records;
(4) A summary of witness statements; and
(5) Answers to interrogatories.
(b) A final investigative report may be amended at any time, if additional evidence is discovered.
(c) Notwithstanding the prohibitions and requirements with respect to disclosure of information contained in § 103.330, the Assistant Secretary will make information derived from an investigation, including the final investigative report, available to the aggrieved person and the respondent. Following the completion of investigation, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the aggrieved person and the respondent that the final investigation report is complete and will be provided upon request.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997]

# Subpart E—Conciliation Procedures
§ 103.300
Conciliation.
(a) During the period beginning with the filing of the complaint and ending with the filing of a charge or the dismissal of the complaint by the General Counsel or the Assistant Secretary, the Assistant Secretary will, to the extent feasible, attempt to conciliate the complaint.
(b) In conciliating a complaint, HUD will attempt to achieve a just resolution of the complaint and to obtain assurances that the respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violations of the rights of the aggrieved person, and take such action as will assure the elimination of discriminatory housing practices, or the prevention of their occurrence, in the future.
(c) Generally, officers, employees, and agents of HUD engaged in the investigation of a complaint under this part will not participate or advise in the conciliation of the same complaint
or in any factually related complaint. Where the rights of the aggrieved party and the respondent can be protected and the prohibitions with respect to the disclosure of information can be observed, the investigator may suspend fact finding and engage in efforts to resolve the complaint by conciliation.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 53294, Dec. 28, 1990]
§ 103.310
Conciliation agreement.
(a) The terms of a settlement of a complaint will be reduced to a written conciliation agreement. The conciliation agreement shall seek to protect the interests of the aggrieved person, other persons similarly situated, and the public interest. The types of relief that may be sought for the aggrieved person are described in § 103.315. The provisions that may be sought for the vindication of the public interest are described in § 103.320.
(b)(1) The agreement must be executed by the respondent and the complainant. The agreement is subject to the approval of the Assistant Secretary, who will indicate approval by signing the agreement. The Assistant Secretary will approve an agreement and, if the Assistant Secretary is the complainant, will execute the agreement, only if:
(i) The complainant and the respondent agree to the relief accorded the aggrieved person;
(ii) The provisions of the agreement will adequately vindicate the public interest; and
(iii) If the Assistant Secretary is the complainant, all aggrieved persons named in the complaint are satisfied with the relief provided to protect their interests.
(2) The General Counsel may issue a charge under § 103.405 if the aggrieved person and the respondent have executed a conciliation agreement that has not been approved by the Assistant Secretary.
§ 103.315
Relief sought for aggrieved persons.
(a) The following types of relief may be sought for aggrieved persons in conciliation:
(1) Monetary relief in the form of damages, including damages caused by humiliation or embarrassment, and attorney fees;
(2) Other equitable relief including, but not limited to, access to the dwelling at issue, or to a comparable dwelling, the provision of services or facilities in connection with a dwelling, or other specific relief; or
(3) Injunctive relief appropriate to the elimination of discriminatory housing practices affecting the aggrieved person or other persons.
(b) The conciliation agreement may provide for binding arbitration of the dispute arising from the complaint. Arbitration may award appropriate relief as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The aggrieved person and the respondent may, in the conciliation agreement, limit the types of relief that may be awarded under binding arbitration.
§ 103.320
Provisions sought for the public interest.
The following are types of provisions may be sought for the vindication of the public interest:
(a) Elimination of discriminatory housing practices.
(b) Prevention of future discriminatory housing practices.
(c) Remedial affirmative activities to overcome discriminatory housing practices.
(d) Reporting requirements.
(e) Monitoring and enforcement activities.
§ 103.325
Termination of conciliation efforts.
(a) HUD may terminate its efforts to conciliate the complaint if the respondent fails or refuses to confer with HUD; the aggrieved person or the respondent fail to make a good faith effort to resolve any dispute; or HUD finds, for any reason, that voluntary agreement is not likely to result.
(b) Where the aggrieved person has commenced a civil action under an Act of Congress or a State law seeking relief with respect to the alleged discriminatory housing practice, and the trial in the action has commenced, HUD will terminate conciliation unless the court specifically requests assistance from the Assistant Secretary.
§ 103.330
Prohibitions and requirements with respect to disclosure of information obtained during conciliation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and § 103.230(c), nothing that is said or done in the course of conciliation under this part may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent administrative hearing under part 180 or in civil actions under title VIII of the Fair Housing Act, without the written consent of the persons concerned.
(b) Conciliation agreements shall be made public, unless the aggrieved person and respondent request nondisclosure and the Assistant Secretary determines that disclosure is not required to further the purposes of the Fair Housing Act. Notwithstanding a determination that disclosure of a conciliation agreement is not required, the Assistant Secretary may publish tabulated descriptions of the results of all conciliation efforts.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996]
§ 103.335
Review of compliance with conciliation agreements.
HUD may, from time to time, review compliance with the terms of any conciliation agreement. Whenever HUD has reasonable cause to believe that a respondent has breached a conciliation agreement, the Assistant Secretary shall refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation for the filing of a civil action under section 814(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act for the enforcement of the terms of the conciliation agreement.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 39956, Aug. 5, 1994]

# Subpart F—Issuance of Charge
§ 103.400
Reasonable cause determination.
(a) If a conciliation agreement under § 103.310 has not been executed by the complainant and the respondent and approved by the Assistant Secretary, the Assistant Secretary shall conduct a review of the factual circumstances revealed as part of HUD's investigation.
(1) If the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity determines that, based on the totality of factual circumstances known at the time of the Assistant Secretary's review, no reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the Assistant Secretary shall: Issue a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which the Assistant Secretary has based the no reasonable cause determination; dismiss the complaint; notify the aggrieved person and the respondent of the dismissal (including the written statement of facts) by mail; and make public disclosure of the dismissal. The respondent may request that no public disclosure be made. Notwithstanding such a request, the fact of dismissal, including the names of the parties, shall be public information available on request. The Assistant Secretary's determination shall be based solely upon the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory housing practice provided by complainant and respondent and otherwise disclosed during the investigation. In making this determination, the Assistant Secretary shall consider whether the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory housing practice are sufficient to warrant the initiation of a civil action in federal court.
(2) If, based on the totality of the factual circumstances known at the time of the decision, the Assistant Secretary believes that reasonable cause may exist to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the Assistant Secretary shall determine that reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, in all cases not involving the legality of local land use laws or ordinances (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section). The Assistant Secretary's determination shall be based solely on the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory housing practices provided by complainants and respondents and otherwise identified during the investigation in making this determination. In making this determination, the Assistant Secretary shall consider whether the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory
housing practice are sufficient to warrant the initiation of a civil action in federal court.
(i) If the Assistant Secretary determines that reasonable cause exists, the Assistant Secretary, upon receipt of concurrence of the General Counsel, will issue such determination and direct the issuance of a charge under § 103.405 on behalf of the aggrieved person, and shall notify the complainant and the respondent of this determination by certified mail or personal service.
(ii) If the Assistant Secretary determines that no reasonable cause exists, the Assistant Secretary shall: Issue a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which the Assistant Secretary has based the no reasonable cause determination; dismiss the complaint; notify the complainant and the respondent of the dismissal (including the written statement of facts) by mail; and make public disclosure of the dismissal. The complainant or respondent may request that no public disclosure be made. Notwithstanding such a request, the fact of dismissal, including the names of the parties, shall be public information available on request.
(3) If the Assistant Secretary determines that the matter involves the legality of local zoning or land use laws or ordinances, the Assistant Secretary, in lieu of making a determination regarding reasonable cause, shall refer the investigative material to the Attorney General for appropriate action under section 814(b)(1) of the Fair Housing Act, and shall notify the complainant and the respondent of this action by mail or personal service.
(b) The Assistant Secretary may not issue a charge under paragraph (a) of this section regarding an alleged discriminatory housing practice, if an aggrieved person has commenced a civil action under an Act of Congress or a state law seeking relief with respect to the alleged housing practice and the trial in the action has commenced. If a charge may not be issued because of the commencement of such a trial, the Assistant Secretary shall so notify the complainant and the respondent by certified mail or personal service.
(c)(1) A determination of reasonable cause or no reasonable cause by the Assistant Secretary shall be made within 100 days after filing of the complaint (or where the Assistant Secretary has reactivated a complaint, within 100 days after service of the notice of reactivation under § 103.115), unless it is impracticable to do so.
(2) If the Assistant Secretary is unable to make the determination within the 100-day period specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Assistant Secretary will notify the complainant and the respondent by mail of the reasons for the delay.
[55 FR 53294, Dec. 28, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 18398, Apr. 30, 1992; 59 FR 39956, Aug. 5, 1994; 59 FR 46759, Sept. 12, 1994]
§ 103.405
Issuance of charge.
(a) A charge:
(1) Shall consist of a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which the Assistant Secretary has found reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur;
(2) Shall be based on the final investigative report; and
(3) Need not be limited to facts or grounds that are alleged in the complaint filed under subpart B of this part. If the charge is based on grounds that are not alleged in the complaint, HUD will not issue a charge with regard to the grounds unless the record of investigation demonstrates that the respondent has been given notice and an opportunity to respond to the allegation.
(b) Within three business days after the issuance of the charge, the General Counsel shall:
(1) Obtain a time and place for hearing from the Docket Clerk for the Office of Hearings and Appeals;
(2) File the charge along with the notifications described in 24 CFR 180.410(b) with the Office of Hearings and Appeals;
(3) Serve the charge and notifications in accordance with 24 CFR 180.410(a); and
(4) Notify the Assistant Secretary of the filing of the charge.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 55078, Oct. 24, 1991; 59 FR 39956, Aug. 5, 1994; 59 FR 46759, Sept. 12, 1994; 60 FR 58452, Nov. 27, 1995; 62 FR 66433, Dec. 18, 1997; 74 FR 4635, Jan. 26, 2009; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 103.410
Election of civil action or provision of administrative proceeding.
(a) If a charge is issued under § 103.405, a complainant (including the Assistant Secretary, if HUD filed the complaint), a respondent, or an aggrieved person on whose behalf the complaint is filed may elect, in lieu of an administrative proceeding under 24 CFR part 180, to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under section 812(o) of the Fair Housing Act.
(b) The election must be made not later than 20 says after the receipt of service of the charge, or in the case of the Assistant Secretary, not later than 20 days after service. The notice of election must be filed with the Docket Clerk in the Office of Hearings and Appeals and served on the General Counsel, the Assistant Secretary, the respondent, and the aggrieved persons on whose behalf the complaint was filed. The notification will be filed and served in accordance with the procedures established under 24 CFR part 180.
(c) If an election is not made under this section, the General Counsel will maintain an administrative proceeding based on the charge in accordance with the procedures under 24 CFR part 180.
(d) If an election is made under this section, the General Counsel shall immediately notify and authorize the Attorney General to commence and maintain a civil action seeking relief under section 812(o) of the Fair Housing Act on behalf of the aggrieved person in an appropriate United States District Court. Such notification and authorization shall include transmission of the file in the case, including a copy of the final investigative report and the charge, to the Attorney General.
(e) The General Counsel shall be available for consultation concerning any legal issues raised by the Attorney General as to how best to proceed in the event that a new court decision or newly discovered evidence is regarded as relevant to the reasonable cause determination.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996; 74 FR 4635, Jan. 26, 2009; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]

# Subpart G—Prompt Judicial Action
§ 103.500
Prompt judicial action.
(a) If at any time following the filing of a complaint, the General Counsel concludes that prompt judicial action is necessary to carry out the purposes of this part or 24 CFR part 180, the General Counsel may authorize the Attorney General to commence a civil action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of the complaint. To ensure the prompt initiation of the civil action, the General Counsel will consult with the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division before making the determination that prompt judicial action is necessary. The commencement of a civil action by the Attorney General under this section will not affect the initiation or continuation of proceedings under this part or administrative proceedings under part 180.
(b) If the General Counsel has reason to believe that a basis exists for the commencement of proceedings against the respondent under section 814(a) of the Fair Housing Act (Pattern or Practice Cases), proceedings under section 814(c) of the Fair Housing Act (Enforcement of Subpoenas), or proceedings by any governmental licensing or supervisory authorities, the General Counsel shall transmit the information upon which that belief is based to the Attorney General and to other appropriate authorities.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996]

# Subpart H—Other Action
§ 103.510
Other action by HUD.
In addition to the actions described in § 103.500, HUD may pursue one or more of the following courses of action:
(a) Refer the matter to the Attorney General for appropriate action (e.g., enforcement of criminal penalties under section 811(c) of the Act).
(b) Take appropriate steps to initiate proceedings leading to the debarment of the respondent under 2 CFR part 2424, or initiate other actions leading to the imposition of administrative sanctions, where HUD determines that
such actions are necessary to the effective operation and administration of federal programs or activities.
(c) Take appropriate steps to initiate proceedings under:
(1) 24 CFR part 1, implementing title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
(2) 24 CFR 570.912, implementing section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974;
(3) 24 CFR part 8, implementing section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973;
(4) 24 CFR part 107, implementing Executive Order 11063; or
(5) The Age Discrimination Act, 42 U.S.C. 6101.
(d) Inform any other Federal, State or local agency with an interest in the enforcement of respondent's obligations with respect to nondiscrimination in housing.
[54 FR 3292, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 103.515
Action by other agencies.
In accordance with section 808 (d) and (e) of the Fair Housing Act and Executive Order No. 12259, other Federal agencies, including any agency having regulatory or supervisory authority over financial institutions, are responsible for ensuring that their programs and activities relating to housing and urban development are administered in a manner affirmatively to further the goal of fair housing, and for cooperating with the Assistant Secretary in furthering the purposes of the Fair Housing Act.
PART 105 [RESERVED]
Pt. 107

# PART 107—NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN HOUSING UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 11063
Sec.
107.10
Purpose.
107.11
Relation to other authorities.
107.15
Definitions.
107.20
Prohibition against discriminatory practices.
107.21
Prevention of discriminatory practices.
107.25
Provisions in legal instruments.
107.30
Recordkeeping requirements.
107.35
Complaints.
107.40
Compliance meeting.
107.45
Resolution of matters.
107.50
Compliance reviews.
107.51
Findings of noncompliance.
107.55
Compliance report.
107.60
Sanctions and penalties.
107.65
Referral to the Attorney General.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d); E.O. 11063, 27 FR 11527, 3 CFR, 1958-1963 Comp., p. 652; E.O. 12892, 59 FR 2939, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 849.

# Source:
45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 107.10
Purpose.
These regulations are to carry out the requirements of E.O. 11063 that all action necessary and appropriate be taken to prevent discrimination because of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin in the sale, rental, leasing or other disposition of residential property and related facilities or in the use or occupancy thereof where such property or facilities are owned or operated by the Federal Government, or provided with Federal assistance by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and in the lending practices with respect to residential property and related facilities of lending institutions insofar as such practices relate to loans insured, guaranteed or purchased by the Department. These regulations are intended to assure compliance with the established policy of the United States that the benefits under programs and activities of the Department which provide financial assistance, directly or indirectly, for the provision, rehabilitation, or operation of housing and related facilities are made available without discrimination based on race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin. These regulations are also intended to assure compliance with the policy of this Department to administer its housing programs affirmatively, so as to achieve a condition in which individuals of similar income levels in the same housing market area have a like range of housing choices available to them regardless of their race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 107.11
Relation to other authorities.
(a) Where allegations of discrimination on the grounds of race, color, or national origin are made in a program or activity of Federal financial assistance of the Department which does not involve a contract of insurance or guaranty, the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and regulations implementing title VI, Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs, under part 1 of this title shall apply. Any complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin in a program or activity of the Department involving a contract of insurance or guaranty will be received and processed according to this part.
(b) Where a complaint filed pursuant to this part alleges a discriminatory housing practice which is also covered by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, the complainant shall be advised of the right to file a complaint pursuant to section 810 of that title and of the availability of Department procedures regarding fair housing complaints under part 105 of this title. The complainant shall also be advised of the right to initiate a civil action in court pursuant to section 812 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 without first filing a complaint with HUD.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 107.15
Definitions.
(a)
Department
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
(b)
State
means each of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Marianas, and the territories of the United States.
(c)
Assistance
includes (1) grants, loans, contributions, and advances of Federal funds; (2) the grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property; (3) the sale, lease, and rental of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient, when such order granting permission accompanies the sale, lease, or rental of Federal properties; (4) loans in whole or in part insured, guaranteed, or otherwise secured by the credit of the Federal Government; and (5) any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.
(d)
Person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives or agents, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries and public entities.
(e)
Public entity
means a government or governmental subdivision or agency.
(f)
Discriminatory practice
means: (1) Any discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin or the existence or use of a policy or practice, or any arrangement, criterion or other method of administration which has the effect of denying equal housing opportunity or which substantially impairs the ability of persons to apply for or receive the benefits of assistance because of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin, in the sale, rental or other disposition of residential property or related facilities (including land to be developed for residential use), or in the use or occupancy thereof, where such property or related facilities are:
(i) Owned or operated by the Secretary;
(ii) Provided in whole or in part with the aid of loans, advances, grants, or contributions agreed to be made by the Department after November 20, 1962;
(iii) Provided in whole or in part by loans insured, guaranteed or otherwise secured by the credit of the Department after November 20, 1962; or
(iv) Provided by the development or the redevelopment of real property purchased, leased, or otherwise obtained from a State or local public agency or unit of general purpose local government receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department under a loan or grant contract entered into after November 20, 1962.
(2) Any discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin or the existence or use of a policy, practice, or any arrangement, criterion or other method of administration which has the effect of denying equal housing opportunity or which substantially impairs the ability of persons to apply for or receive the benefits of assistance because of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin in lending practices with respect to residential property and related facilities (including land to be developed for residential use) of lending institutions, insofar as such practices relate to loans, insured or guaranteed, by the Department after November 20, 1962. Examples of discriminatory practices under subsections (1) and (2) include but are not limited to the following when based on race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin:
(i) Denial to a person of any housing accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, financing or other benefit provided under a program or activity;
(ii) Providing any housing accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, financing or other benefits to a person which are different, or are provided in a different manner, from those provided to others in a program or activity;
(iii) Subjecting a person to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to the receipt of housing, accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, financing or other benefits under a program or activity;
(iv) Restricting a person in any way in access to housing, accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, financing or other benefits, or in the enjoyment of any advantage or privilege enjoyed by others in connection with such housing, accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, or other benefits under a program or activity;
(v) Treating persons differently in determining whether they satisfy any occupancy, admission, enrollment, eligibility, membership, or other requirement or condition which persons must meet in order to be provided any housing, accommodations, facilities, services, financial aid, financing or other benefits under a program or activity; and
(vi) Denying a person opportunity to participate in a program or activity through the provision of services or otherwise, or affording the person an opportunity to do so which is different from that afforded others in a program or activity.
(3) Noncompliance with relevant affirmative fair housing marketing requirements contained in Department programs and regulations.
(4) A formal finding of a violation of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 or a state or local fair housing law with respect to activities also covered by E.O. 11063.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985; 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 107.20
Prohibition against discriminatory practices.
(a) No person receiving assistance from or participating in any program or activity of the Department involving housing and related facilities shall engage in a discriminatory practice.
(b) Where such person has been found by the Department or any other Federal Department, agency, or court to have previously discriminated against persons on the ground of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin, he or she must take affirmative action to overcome the effects of prior discrimination.
(c) Nothing in this part precludes such person from taking affirmative action to prevent discrimination in housing or related facilities where the purpose of such action is to overcome prior discriminatory practice or usage or to overcome the effects of conditions which resulted in limiting participation by persons of a particular race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 107.21
Prevention of discriminatory practices.
All persons receiving assistance from, or participating in any program or activity of the Department involving housing and related facilities shall take all action necessary and proper to prevent discrimination on the basis of
race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 107.25
Provisions in legal instruments.
(a) The following documents shall contain provisions or statements requiring compliance with E.O. 11063 and this part:
(1) Contracts, grants and agreements providing Departmental assistance for the provision of housing and related facilities,
(2) Contracts, grants and agreements regarding the sale, rental or management of properties owned by the Secretary,
(3) Corporate charters and regulatory agreements relating to multifamily and land development projects assisted by the Department,
(4) Approvals of financial institutions and other lenders as approved FHA mortgagees,
(5) Requests for subdivision reports under home mortgage procedures and for preapplication analysis of multifamily and land development projects, and
(6) Contracts and agreements providing for Departmental insurance or guarantee of loans with respect to housing and related facilities.
(b) The provision or statement required pursuant to this section shall indicate that the failure or refusal to comply with the requirements of E.O. 11063 or this part shall be a proper basis for the imposition of sanctions provided in § 107.60.
§ 107.30
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) All persons receiving assistance through any program or activity of the Department involving the provision of housing and related activities subject to Executive Order 11063 shall maintain racial, religious, national origin and sex data required by the Department in connection with its programs and activities.
(b) All lenders participating in Departmental mortgage insurance programs, home improvement loan programs, GNMA mortgage purchase programs, or special mortgage assistance programs, shall maintain data regarding the race, religion, national origin and sex of each applicant and joint applicant for assistance with regard to residential property and related facilities. Racial data shall be noted in the following categories: American Indian/Alaskan Native, Asian/Pacific Islander, Black, White, Hispanic. If an applicant or joint applicant refuses to voluntarily provide the information or any part of it, that fact shall be noted and the information shall be obtained, to the extent possible, through observation. Applications shall be retained for a period of at least twenty-five (25) months following the date the record was made.
(c) If an investigation or compliance review under this part reveals a failure to comply with any of the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the respondent shall have the burden of establishing its compliance with this part and with the equal housing opportunity requirements of the Executive order.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 52442, Dec. 24, 1985]
§ 107.35
Complaints.
(a) The Assistant Secretary for FH
EO, or designee, shall conduct such compliance reviews, investigations, inquiries, and informal meetings as may be necessary to effect compliance with this part.
(b) Complaints under this part may be filed by any person and must be filed within one year of date of the alleged act of discrimination unless the time for filing is extended by the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO. Complaints must be signed by the complainant and may be filed with the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410, or any Regional or Area Office of the Department. All complaints shall be forwarded to the Director, Office of Regional Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity in the appropriate Regional Office which has jurisdiction in the area in which the property is located.
(c) Upon receipt of a timely complaint, the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO shall determine whether the complaint indicates a possible violation of the Executive Order or this
part. The Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO or a designee within a reasonable period of time shall conduct an investigation into the facts. The complainant shall be notified of the determination.
§ 107.40
Compliance meeting.
(a) Where preliminary analysis of a complaint, a compliance review initiated by the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO, or other information indicates a possible violation of E.O. 11063, or this part, the person allegedly in violation (
respondent
) shall be sent a Notice of Compliance Meeting and requested to attend a compliance meeting. The Notice shall advise the respondent of the matters to be addressed in the Compliance Meeting and the allegations contained in a complaint received pursuant to § 107.35. The purpose of the compliance meeting is to provide the respondent with the opportunity to address matters raised and to remedy such possible violations speedily and informally, to identify possible remedies; and to effect a resolution as provided in § 107.45.
(b) The Notice of Compliance Meeting shall be sent to the last known address of the person allegedly in violation, by certified mail, or through personal service. The Notice will advise such person of the right to respond within seven (7) days to the matters and to submit information and relevant data evidencing compliance with E.O. 11063, the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Regulations, 24 CFR 200.600, the Fair Housing Poster Regulations, 24 CFR part 110, the Advertising Guidelines for Fair Housing, 37 FR 6700, April 1, 1972, other affirmative marketing requirements applicable to the program or activity and any revisions thereto. Further, the person will be offered an opportunity to be present at the meeting in order to submit any other evidence showing such compliance. The date, place, and time of the scheduled meeting will be included in the Notice.
(c) Whenever a compliance meeting is scheduled as a result of a complaint, the complainant shall be sent a copy of the Notice of Compliance Meeting and shall be provided an opportunity to attend the meeting.
(d) The Area Office having jurisdiction over the program will prepare a report concerning the status of the respondent's participation in Department programs to be presented to the respondent at the meeting. The Area Manager shall be notified of the meeting and may attend the meeting.
(e) At the Compliance Meeting the respondent and the complainant may be represented by counsel and shall have a fair opportunity to present any matters relevant to the complaint.
(f) During and pursuant to the Compliance Meeting, the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO shall consider all evidence relating to the alleged violation, including any action taken by the person allegedly in violation to comply with E.O. 11063.
(g) If the evidence shows no violation of the Executive order or this part, the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO shall so notify the person(s) involved within ten (10) days of the meeting. A copy of this notification shall be sent to the complainant, if any, and shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO.
(h) If the evidence indicates an apparent failure to comply with the Executive order or this part, and the matter cannot be resolved informally pursuant to § 107.45, the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO shall so notify the respondent and the complainant, if any, no later than ten (10) days after the date on which the compliance meeting is held, in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall advise the complainant, if any, and the respondent whether the Department will conduct a compliance review pursuant to § 107.50 or, where appropriate, refer the matter to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO for possible imposition of sanctions. A copy of this notification shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO. The compliance review shall be conducted to determine whether the respondent has complied with the provisions of E.O. 11063, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Department regulations and the Department's Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing requirements.
(i) If the respondent fails to attend a compliance meeting scheduled pursuant to this section, the Director of the
Office of Regional FH
EO shall notify the respondent no later than ten (10) days after the date of the scheduled meeting, in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, as to whether the Department will conduct a compliance review or, where appropriate, refer the matter to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO for possible imposition of sanctions. A copy of this notification shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO and sent to the complainant, if any.
§ 107.45
Resolution of matters.
(a) Attempts to resolve and remedy matters found in a complaint investigation or a compliance review shall be made through the methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion.
(b) Resolution of matters pursuant to this section and § 107.40 need not be attempted where similar efforts by another Federal agency have been unsuccessful in ending and remedying the violation found with respect to the same respondent.
(c) Efforts to remedy matters shall be directed toward achieving a just resolution of the probable violation and obtaining assurance(s) that the respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of E.O. 11063 and will take actions to eliminate the discriminatory practices and prevent reoccurrences. Compensation to individuals from the respondent may also be considered.
(d) The terms of settlements shall be reduced to a written agreement, signed by the respondent and the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO or a designee. Such settlements shall seek to protect the interests of the complainant, if any, other persons similarly affected, and the public interest. A written notice of the disposition of matters pursuant to this section and of the terms of settlements shall be given to the Area Manager by the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO or a designee and to the complainant, if any. When the Assistant Secretary or a designee determines that there has been a violation of a settlement agreement, the Assistant Secretary immediately may take action to impose sanctions provided under this part, including the referral of the matter to the Attorney General for appropriate action.
§ 107.50
Compliance reviews.
(a) Compliance reviews shall be conducted by the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO or a designee. Complaints alleging a violation(s) of this part or information ascertained in the absence of a complaint indicating apparent failure to comply with this part shall be referred immediately to the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO. The Regional Director of the Office having jurisdiction over the programs involved and the Area Manager shall be notified of all alleged violations of the regulations. A complaint is not a prerequisite for the initiation of compliance review.
(b) The purpose of a compliance review is to determine whether the respondent is in compliance with the Executive order and this part. Where allegations may also indicate a violation of the provisions of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, HUD regulations issued thereunder and Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing requirements, a review may be undertaken to determine compliance with those requirements. The respondent shall be given at least five (5) days notice of the time set for any compliance review and the place or places for such review. The complainant shall also be notified of the compliance review.
§ 107.51
Findings of noncompliance.
(a) A finding of noncompliance shall be made when the facts disclosed during an investigation or compliance review, or other information, indicate a failure to comply with the provisions of E.O. 11063 or this part. In no event will a finding of noncompliance precede the completion of the compliance meeting procedures set forth in § 107.40.
(b) Determinations of noncompliance with E.O. 11063 shall be made in any case in which the facts establish the existence of a discriminatory practice under § 107.15(g)
(c) The existence or use of a policy or practice, or any arrangement, criterion or other method of administration which has the effect of denying equal housing opportunity or which substantially impairs the ability of persons, because of race, color, religion (creed), sex or national origin, to apply for or receive the benefits of assistance shall
be a basis for finding a discriminatory practice unless the respondent can establish that:
(1) The policy or practice is designed to serve a legitimate business necessity or governmental purpose of the respondent;
(2) The policy or practice effectively carries out the interest it is designed to serve; and
(3) No alternative course of action could be adopted that would enable respondent's interest to be served with a less discriminatory impact.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 31360, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 107.55
Compliance report.
(a) Following completion of efforts under this part, the Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO or a designee shall prepare a compliance report promptly and the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO shall make a finding of compliance or noncompliance. If it is found that the respondent is in compliance, all persons concerned shall be notified of the finding. Where a finding of noncompliance is made, the report shall specify the violations found. The Director of the Office of Regional FH
EO shall send a copy of the report to the respondent by certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a Notice that the matter will be forwarded to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO for a determination as to whether actions will be initiated for the imposition of sanctions. The Regional Director of the Office having jurisdiction over the programs involved and the Area Manager shall also receive a copy of the report and the notice of intention to refer the matter to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO.
(b) The Notice will provide that the respondent shall have seven (7) days to respond to the violations found and resolve and remedy matters in the compliance report. At the expiration of the seven (7) day period the matter shall be referred to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO.
(c) The complainant shall be sent a copy of the findings and compliance report and shall have seven (7) days to comment thereon.
§ 107.60
Sanctions and penalties.
(a) Failure or refusal to comply with E.O. 11063 or the requirements of this part shall be proper basis for applying sanctions. Violations of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 or a state or local fair housing law, with respect to activities covered by the Executive order, or of the regulations and requirements under E.O. 11063 of other Federal Departments and agencies may also result in the imposition of sanctions by this Department.
(b) Such sanctions as are specified by E.O. 11063, the contract through which federal assistance is provided, and such sanctions as are specified by the rules or regulations of the Department governing the program under which federal assistance to the project is provided shall be applied in accordance with the relevant regulations. Actions that may be taken include: cancellation or termination, in whole or in part, of the contract or agreement; refusal to approve a lender or withdrawal of approval; or a determination of ineligibility, suspension, or debarment from any further assistance or contracts; provided, however, that sanctions of debarment, suspension, and ineligibility are subject to the Department's regulations under 2 CFR part 2424, and, further, that no sanction under section 302 (a), (b), and (c) of Executive Order 11063 shall be applied by the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity without the concurrence of the Secretary.
(c) The Department shall use its good offices in order to promote the abandonment of discriminatory practices with regard to residential property and related facilities provided with assistance prior to the effective date of E.O. 11063 and take appropriate actions permitted by law including the institution of appropriate litigation to provide such equal housing opportunities.
(d) In any case involving the failure of a lender to comply with the requirements of the Executive order or this part, the Assistant Secretary for
FH
EO shall notify the Federal financial regulatory agency having jurisdiction over the lender of the findings in the case.
[45 FR 59514, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 72 FR 73493, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 107.65
Referral to the Attorney General.
If the results of a complaint investigation or a compliance review demonstrate that any person, or specified class of persons, has violated E.O. 11063 or this part, and efforts to resolve the matter(s) by informal means have failed, the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO in appropriate cases shall recommend that the General Counsel refer the case to the Attorney General of the United States for appropriate civil or criminal action under section 303 of E.O. 11063.
Pt. 108

# PART 108—COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES FOR AFFIRMATIVE FAIR HOUSING MARKETING
Sec.
108.1
Purpose and application.
108.5
Authority.
108.15
Pre-occupancy conference.
108.20
Monitoring office responsibility for monitoring plans and reports.
108.21
Civil rights/compliance reviewing office compliance responsibility.
108.25
Compliance meeting.
108.35
Complaints.
108.40
Compliance reviews.
108.45
Compliance report.
108.50
Sanctions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3608, 3535(d); E.O. 11063, 27 FR 11527, 3 CFR, 1958-1963 Comp., p. 652; E.O. 12892, 59 FR 2939, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 849.

# Source:
44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 108.1
Purpose and application.
(a) The primary purpose of this regulation is to establish procedures for determining whether or not an applicant's actions are in compliance with its approved Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing (AFHM) plan, AFHM Regulation (24 CFR 200.600), and AFHM requirements in Departmental programs.
(b) These regulations apply to all applicants for participation in subsidized and unsubsidized housing programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and to all other persons subject to Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing requirements in Department programs.
(c) The term
applicant
includes:
(1) All persons whose applications are approved for development or rehabilitation of: Subdivisions; multifamily projects; manufactured home parks of five or more lots, units or spaces; or dwelling units, when the applicant's participation in FHA housing programs has exceeded, or would thereby exceed, development of five or more such dwelling units during the year preceding the application, except that there shall not be included in a determination of the number of dwelling units developed or rehabilitated by an applicant, those in which a single family dwelling is constructed or rehabilitated for occupancy by a mortgagor on property owned by the mortgagor and in which the applicant had no interest prior to entering into the contract for construction or rehabilitation. For the purposes of this definition, a person remains an
applicant
from the date of submission of an application through duration of receipt of assistance pursuant to such application.
(2) All other persons subject to AFHM requirements in Departmental programs.
(d) The term
person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives or agents, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries and public entities.
(e) The term monitoring office includes any office within HUD designated by HUD to act as a monitoring office. As necessary, HUD will designate specific offices within HUD to act as monitoring offices through a notice published in the
Federal Register.
(f) The term
civil rights/compliance reviewing office
includes any office within HUD designated by HUD to act as a civil rights/compliance reviewing office. As necessary, HUD will designate specific offices within HUD to act as
civil rights/compliance reviewing offices through a notice published in the
Federal Register.
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 9268, Mar. 7, 1985; 64 FR 44095, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.5
Authority.
The regulations in this part are issued pursuant to the authority to issue regulations granted to the Secretary by section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). They implement the functions, powers, and duties imposed on the Secretary by Executive Order 11063, 27 FR 11527 and title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3608.
§ 108.15
Pre-occupancy conference.
Applicants shall submit a Notification of Intent to Begin Marketing to the monitoring office no later than 90 days prior to engaging in sales or rental marketing activities. Upon receipt of the Notification of Intent to Begin Marketing from the applicant, the monitoring office shall review any previously approved plan and may schedule a pre-occupancy conference. Such pre-occupancy conference shall be held prior to initiation of sales or rental marketing activities. At this conference, the previously approved AFHM plan shall be reviewed with the applicant to determine if the plan, and/or its proposed implementation, requires modification previous to initiation of marketing in order to achieve the objectives of the AFHM regulation and the plan.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2535-0027)
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 20903, May 10, 1983; 64 FR 44095, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.20
Monitoring office responsibility for monitoring plans and reports.
(a)
Submission of documentation.
Pursuant to initiation of marketing, the applicant shall submit to the monitoring office reports documenting the implementation of the AFHM plan, including sales or rental reports, as required by the Department. Copies of such documentation shall be forwarded to the civil rights/compliance reviewing office by the monitoring office as requested.
(b)
Monitoring of AFHM plan.
The monitoring office is responsible for monitoring AFHM plans and providing technical assistance to the applicant in preparation or modification of such plans during the period of development and initial implementation.
(c)
Review of applicant's reports.
Each sales or rental report shall be reviewed by the monitoring office as it is received. When sales or rental reports show that 20% of the units covered by the AFHM plan have been sold or rented, or whenever it appears that the plan may not accomplish its intended objective, the monitoring office shall notify the civil rights/compliance reviewing office.
(d)
Failure of applicant to file documentation.
If the applicant fails to file required documentation, the applicant shall be sent a written notice indicating that if the delinquent documentation is not submitted to the monitoring office within 10 days from date of receipt of the notice, the matter will be referred to the civil rights/compliance reviewing office by the monitoring office for action which may lead to the imposition of sanctions.
[64 FR 44096, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.21
Civil rights/compliance reviewing office compliance responsibility.
The civil rights/compliance reviewing office shall be responsible for determining whether an applicant's actions are in apparent compliance with its approved AFHM plan, the AFHM regulations, and this part and for determining changes or modifications necessary in the plan after initiation of marketing.
[64 FR 44096, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.25
Compliance meeting.
(a)
Scheduling meeting.
If an applicant fails to comply with requirements under § 108.15 or § 108.20 or it appears that the goals of the AFHM plan may not be achieved, or that the implementation of the Plan should be modified, the civil rights/compliance reviewing
office shall schedule a meeting with the applicant. The meeting shall be held at least ten days before the next sales or rental report is due. The purpose of the compliance meeting is to review the applicant's compliance with AFHM requirements and the implementation of the AFHM Plan and to indicate any changes or modifications which may be required in the Plan.
(b)
Notice of Compliance Meeting.
A Notice of Compliance Meeting shall be sent to the last known address of the applicant, by certified mail or through personal service. The Notice will advise the applicant of the right to respond within seven (7) days to the matters identified as subjects of the meeting and to submit information and relevant data evidencing compliance with the AFHM regulations, the AFHM Plan, Executive Order 11063 and title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, when appropriate. If the applicant is a small entity, as defined by the regulations of the Small Business Administration, the Notice shall include notification that the entity may submit comment on HUD's actions to the Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman, and shall include the appropriate contact information.
(c)
Applicant data required.
The applicant will be requested in writing to provide, prior to or at the compliance meeting, specific documents, records, and other information relevant to compliance, including but not limited to:
(1) Copies or scripts of all advertising in the Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) or housing market area, as appropriate, including newspaper, radio and television advertising, and a photograph of any sale or rental sign at the site of construction;
(2) Copies of brochures and other printed material used in connection with sales or rentals;
(3) Evidence of outreach to community organizations;
(4) Any other evidence of affirmative outreach to groups which are not likely to apply for the subject housing;
(5) Evidence of instructions to employees with respect to company policy of nondiscrimination in housing;
(6) Description of training conducted with sales/rental staff;
(7) Evidence of nondiscriminatory hiring and recruiting policies for staff engaged in the sale or rental of properties, and data by race and sex of the composition of the staff;
(8) Copies of applications and waiting lists of prospective buyers or renters maintained by applicant;
(9) Copies of Sign-in Lists maintained on site for prospective buyers and renters who are shown the facility;
(10) Copies of the selection and screening criteria;
(11) Copies of relevant lease or sales agreements;
(12) Any other information which documents efforts to comply with an approved plan.
(d)
Preparation for the compliance meeting.
The monitoring office will provide information concerning the status of the project or housing involved to be presented to the applicant at the meeting. The monitoring office shall be notified of the meeting and may send representatives to the meeting.
(e)
Resolution of matters.
Where matters raised in the compliance meetings are resolved through revision to the plan or its implementation, the terms of the resolution shall be reduced to writing and submitted to the civil rights/compliance reviewing office within 10 days of the date of the compliance meeting.
(f)
Determination of compliance.
If the evidence shows no violation of the AFHM regulations and that the applicant is complying with its approved AFHM plan and this part, the civil rights/compliance reviewing office shall so notify the applicant within 10 days of the meeting.
(g)
Determination of possible noncompliance.
If the evidence indicates an apparent failure to comply with the AFHM plan or the AFHM regulation, or if the matters raised cannot be resolved, the civil rights/compliance reviewing office shall so notify the applicant no later than ten (10) days after the date the compliance meeting is held, in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall advise the applicant that the Department will conduct a comprehensive compliance review or refer the matter to the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity for consideration of
action including the imposition of sanctions. The purpose of a compliance review is to determine whether the applicant has complied with the provisions of Executive Order 11063, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, and the AFHM regulations in conjunction with the applicant's specific AFHM plan previously approved by HUD.
(h)
Failure of applicant to attend the meeting.
If the applicant fails to attend the meeting scheduled pursuant to this section, the civil rights/compliance reviewing office shall so notify the applicant no later than ten (10) days after the date of the scheduled meeting, in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall advise the applicant as to whether the civil rights/compliance reviewing office will conduct a comprehensive compliance review or refer the matter to the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity for consideration of action including the imposition of sanctions.
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 44096, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.35
Complaints.
Individuals and private and public entities may file complaints alleging violations of the AFHM regulations or an approved AFHM plan with any monitoring office, civil rights/compliance reviewing office, or with the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO. Complaints will be referred to the civil rights/compliance reviewing office. Where there is an allegation of a violation of title VIII the complaint also will be processed under part 105.
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 44096, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.40
Compliance reviews.
(a)
General.
All compliance reviews shall be conducted by the civil rights/compliance reviewing office. Complaints alleging a violation(s) of the AFHM regulations, or information ascertained in the absence of a complaint indicating an applicant's failure to comply with an AFHM plan, shall be referred immediately to the civil rights/compliance reviewing office. The monitoring office shall be notified as appropriate of all alleged violations of the AFHM regulations or alleged failure to comply with an AFHM plan.
(b)
Initiation of compliance reviews.
Even in the absence of a complaint or other information indicating noncompliance pursuant to paragraph (a), the civil rights/compliance reviewing office may conduct periodic compliance reviews throughout the life of the mortgage in the case of multi-family projects and throughout the duration of the Housing Assistance Payments Contract with the Department in the case of housing assisted under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1437.
(c)
Nature of compliance reviews.
The purpose of a compliance review is to determine whether the applicant is in compliance with the Department's AFHM requirements and the applicant's approved AFHM plan. Where allegations under this part may also constitute a violation of the provisions of Executive Order 11063 or title VIII, the review will also determine compliance with the requirements thereof. The applicant shall be given at least five (5) days notice of the time set for any compliance review and the place or places for such review. The compliance review will cover the following areas:
(1) Applicant's sales and rental practices, including practices in soliciting buyers and tenants, determining eligibility, selecting and rejecting buyers and renters, and in concluding sales and rental transactions.
(2) Programs to attract minority and majority buyers and renters regardless of sex, including:
(i) Use of advertising media, brochures, and pamphlets;
(ii) Conformance with both the Department's Fair Housing Poster Regulation (24 CFR part 110) and the Advertising Guidelines for Fair Housing (37 FR 6700) and any revisions thereto.
(3) Data relating to:
(i) The size and location of units;
(ii) Services provided;
(iii) Sales and/or rental price ranges;
(iv) The race and sex of buyers and/or renters;
(v) Race and sex of staff engaged in sale or rental of dwellings.
(4) Other matters relating to the marketing or sales of dwellings under
HUD affirmative marketing requirements, the AFMH Plan and this part.
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 44096, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.45
Compliance report.
Following a compliance review, a report shall be prepared promptly and the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO shall make a finding of compliance or noncompliance. If it is found that the applicant is in compliance, all parties concerned shall be notified of the findings. Whenever a finding of noncompliance is made pursuant to this part, the report shall list specifically the violations found. The applicant shall be sent a copy of the report by certified mail, return receipt requested, together with a notice that, if the matter cannot be resolved within ten days of receipt of the Notice, the matter will be referred to the Assistant Secretary for FH
EO to make a determination as to whether actions will be initiated for the imposition of sanctions.
[44 FR 47013, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 44097, Aug. 12, 1999]
§ 108.50
Sanctions.
Applicants failing to comply with the requirements of these regulations, the AFHM regulations, or an AFHM plan will make themselves liable to sanctions authorized by law, regulations, agreements, rules, or policies governing the program pursuant to which the application was made, including, but not limited to, denial of further participation in Departmental programs and referral to the Department of Justice for suit by the United States for injunctive or other appropriate relief.
Pt. 110

# PART 110—FAIR HOUSING POSTER

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
110.1
Purpose.
110.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Display of Posters
110.10
Persons subject.
110.15
Location of posters.
110.20
Availability of posters.
110.25
Description of posters.

# Subpart C—Enforcement
110.30
Effect of failure to display poster.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 3600-3620.

# Source:
37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 110.1
Purpose.
The regulations set forth in this part contain the procedures established by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with respect to the display of a fair housing poster by persons subject to sections 804 through 806 of the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. 3604-3606.
[54 FR 3310, Jan. 23, 1989]
§ 110.5
Definitions.
(a) The terms
Department
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
(b)
Discriminatory housing practice
means an act that is unlawful under section 804, 805, 806, or 818 of the Act.
(c)
Dwelling
means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
(d)
Family
includes a single individual.
(e)
Person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under title 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(f)
Fair housing poster
means the poster prescribed by the Secretary for display by persons subject to sections 804-806 of the Act.
(g)
The Act
means the Fair Housing Act (The Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988), 42 U.S.C. 3600,
et seq.
(h)
Person in the business of selling or renting dwellings
means a person as defined in section 803(c) of the Act.
[37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972, as amended at 54 FR 3311, Jan. 23, 1989; 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Display of Posters
§ 110.10
Persons subject.
(a) Except to the extent that paragraph (b) of this section applies, all persons subject to section 804 of the Act, Discrimination in the Sale or Rental of Housing and Other Prohibited Practices, shall post and maintain a fair housing poster as follows:
(1) With respect to a single-family dwelling (not being offered for sale or rental in conjunction with the sale or rental of other dwellings) offered for sale or rental through a real estate broker, agent, salesman, or person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, such person shall post and maintain a fair housing poster at any place of business where the dwelling is offered for sale or rental.
(2) With respect to all other dwellings covered by the Act:
(i) A fair housing poster shall be posted and maintained at any place of business where the dwelling is offered for sale or rental, and
(ii) A fair housing poster shall be posted and maintained at the dwelling, except that with respect to a single-family dwelling being offered for sale or rental in conjunction with the sale or rental of other dwellings, the fair housing poster may be posted and maintained at the model dwellings instead of at each of the individual dwellings.
(3) With respect to those dwellings to which paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies, the fair housing poster must be posted at the beginning of construction and maintained throughout the period of construction and sale or rental.
(b) This part shall not require posting and maintaining a fair housing poster:
(1) On vacant land, or
(2) At any single-family dwelling, unless such dwelling
(i) Is being offered for sale or rental in conjunction with the sale or rental of other dwellings in which circumstances a fair housing poster shall be posted and maintained as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, or
(ii) Is being offered for sale or rental through a real estate broker, agent, salesman, or person in the business of selling or renting dwellings in which circumstances a fair housing poster shall be posted and maintained as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section,
(c) All persons subject to section 805 of the Act, Discrimination In Residential Real Estate-Related Transactions shall post and maintain a fair housing poster at all their places of business which participate in the covered activities.
(d) All persons subject to section 806 of the Act, Discrimination in the Provision of Brokerage Services, shall post and maintain a fair housing poster at all their places of business.
[37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972, as amended at 54 FR 3311, Jan. 23, 1989]
§ 110.15
Location of posters.
All fair housing posters shall be prominently displayed so as to be readily apparent to all persons seeking housing accommodations or seeking to engage in residential real estate-related transactions or brokerage services as contemplated by sections 804 through 806 of the Act.
[54 FR 3311, Jan. 23, 1989]
§ 110.20
Availability of posters.
All persons subject to this part may obtain fair housing posters from the Department's regional and area offices. A facsimile may be used if the poster and the lettering are equivalent in size and legibility to the poster available from the Department.
[37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972]
§ 110.25
Description of posters.
(a) The fair housing poster shall be 11 inches by 14 inches and shall bear the following legend:
EC12OC91.008

# EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY

# We do Business in Accordance With the Fair Housing Act
(The Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988)

# IT IS ILLEGAL TO DISCRIMINATE AGAINST

# ANY PERSON BECAUSE OF RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, HANDICAP, FAMILIAL STATUS (HAVING ONE OR MORE CHILDREN), OR NATIONAL ORIGIN
• In the sale or rental of housing or residential lots.
• In advertising the sale or rental of housing.
• In the financing of housing.
• In the appraisal of housing.
• In the provision of real estate brokerage services.
• Blockbusting is also illegal.
Anyone who feels he or she has been discriminated against should send a complaint to:
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Washington, DC 20410
or
HUD Region or [Area Office stamp]
(b) The Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity may grant a waiver permitting the substitution of a poster prescribed by a Federal financial regulatory agency for the fair housing poster described in paragraph (a) of this section. While such waiver remains in effect, compliance with the posting requirements of such regulatory agency shall be deemed compliance with the posting requirements of this part. Such waiver shall not affect the applicability of all other provisions of this part.
[37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972, as amended at 40 FR 20079, May 8, 1975; 54 FR 3311, Jan. 23, 1989]

# Subpart C—Enforcement
§ 110.30
Effect of failure to display poster.
Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice may file a complaint with the Secretary pursuant to part 105 of this chapter. A failure to display the fair housing poster as required by this part shall be deemed prima facie evidence of a discriminatory housing practice.
[37 FR 3429, Feb. 16, 1972]
Pt. 115

# PART 115—CERTIFICATION AND FUNDING OF STATE AND LOCAL FAIR HOUSING ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
115.100
Definitions.
115.101
Program administration.
115.102
Public notices.

# Subpart B—Certification of Substantially Equivalent Agencies
115.200
Purpose.
115.201
The two phases of substantial equivalency certification.
115.202
Request for interim certification.
115.203
Interim certification procedures.
115.204
Criteria for adequacy of law.
115.205
Certification procedures.
115.206
Performance assessments; Performance standards.
115.207
Consequences of interim certification and certification.
115.208
Procedures for renewal of certification.
115.209
Technical assistance.
115.210
Performance deficiency procedures; Suspension; Withdrawal.
115.211
Changes limiting effectiveness of agency's law; Corrective actions; Suspension; Withdrawal; Consequences of repeal; Changes not limiting effectiveness.
115.212
Request after withdrawal.

# Subpart C—Fair Housing Assistance Program
115.300
Purpose.
115.301
Agency eligibility criteria; Funding availability.
115.302
Capacity building funds.
115.303
Eligible activities for capacity building funds.
115.304
Agencies eligible for contributions funds.
115.305
Special enforcement effort (SEE) funds.
115.306
Training funds.
115.307
Requirements for participation in the FHAP; Corrective and remedial action for failing to comply with requirements.
115.308
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
115.309
Subcontracting under the FHAP.
115.310
FHAP and the First Amendment.
115.311
Testing.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3601-19; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
72 FR 19074, Apr. 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 115.100
Definitions.
(a) The terms “Fair Housing Act,” “HUD,” and “the Department,” as used in this part, are defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
(b) The terms “aggrieved person,” “complainant,” “conciliation,” “conciliation agreement,” “discriminatory housing practice,” “dwelling,” “handicap,” “person,” “respondent,” “secretary,” and “state,” as used in this part, are defined in Section 802 of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3602).
(c)
Other definitions.
The following definitions also apply to this part:
Act
means the Fair Housing Act, as defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
Certified agency
is an agency that has been granted certification by the Assistant Secretary in accordance with the requirements of this part.
Cooperative agreement
is the instrument HUD will use to provide funds. The Cooperative Agreement includes attachments and/or appendices establishing requirements relating to the operation and performance of the agency.
Cooperative agreement officer (CAO)
is the administrator of the funds awarded pursuant to this part and is a regional director of the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
Dual-filed complaint
means a housing discrimination complaint that has been filed with both HUD and the agency that has been granted interim certification or certification by the Assistant Secretary.
FHAP
means the Fair Housing Assistance Program.
FHEO
means HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
FHEO regional director
means a regional director of the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
Fair housing law
or
Law
refers to both state fair housing laws and local fair housing laws.
Final administrative disposition
means an agency's completion of a case following a reasonable cause finding, including, but not limited to, an agency-approved settlement or a final, administrative decision issued by commissioners, hearing officers or administrative law judges. Final administrative disposition does not include dispositions in judicial proceedings resulting from election or appeal.
Government Technical Monitor (GTM)
means the HUD staff person who has been designated to provide technical and financial oversight and evaluation of the FHAP grantee's performance.
Government Technical Representative (GTR)
means the HUD staff person who is responsible for the technical administration of the FHAP grant, the evaluation of performance under the FHAP
grant, the acceptance of technical reports or projects, the approval of payments, and other such specific responsibilities as may be stipulated in the FHAP grant.
Impracticable
, as used in this part, is when complaint processing is delayed by circumstances beyond the control of the interim or certified agency. Those situations include, but are not limited to, complaints involving complex issues requiring extensive investigations, complaints involving new and complicated areas of law that need to be analyzed, and where a witness is discovered late in the investigation and needs to be interviewed.
Interim agency
is an agency that has been granted interim certification by the Assistant Secretary.
Ordinance
, as used in this part, means a law enacted by the legislative body of a municipality.
Statute
, as used in this part, means a law enacted by the legislative body of a state.
Testing
refers to the use of an individual or individuals (“testers”) who, without a bona fide intent to rent or purchase a house, apartment, or other dwelling, pose as prospective renters or purchasers for the purpose of gathering information that may indicate whether a housing provider is complying with fair housing laws.
§ 115.101
Program administration.
(a)
Authority and responsibility.
The Secretary has delegated the authority and responsibility for administering this part to the Assistant Secretary.
(b)
Delegation of Authority.
The Assistant Secretary retains the right to make final decisions concerning the granting and withdrawal of substantial equivalency interim certification and certification. The Assistant Secretary delegates the authority and responsibility for administering the remainder of this part to the FHEO regional director. This includes assessing the performance of interim and certified agencies as described in § 115.206. This also includes the offering of a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) as described in § 115.210 and the suspension of interim certification or certification due to performance deficiencies as described in § 115.210.
§ 115.102
Public notices.
(a) Periodically, the Assistant Secretary will publish the following public notices in the
Federal Register
:
(1) A list of all interim and certified agencies; and
(2) A list of agencies to which a withdrawal of interim certification or certification has been proposed.
(b) On an annual basis, the Assistant Secretary may publish in the
Federal Register
a notice that identifies all agencies that have received interim certification during the prior year. The notice will invite the public to comment on the state and local laws of the new interim agencies, as well as on the performance of the agencies in enforcing their laws. All comments will be considered before a final decision on certification is made.

# Subpart B—Certification of Substantially Equivalent Agencies
§ 115.200
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 810(f) of the Fair Housing Act. The purpose of this subpart is to set forth:
(a) The basis for agency interim certification and certification;
(b) Procedures by which a determination is made to grant interim certification or certification;
(c) How the Department will evaluate the performance of an interim and certified agency;
(d) Procedures that the Department will utilize when an interim or certified agency performs deficiently;
(e) Procedures that the Department will utilize when there are changes limiting the effectiveness of an interim or certified agency's law;
(f) Procedures for renewal of certification; and
(g) Procedures when an agency requests interim certification or certification after a withdrawal.
§ 115.201
The two phases of substantial equivalency certification.
Substantial equivalency certification is granted if the Department determines that a state or local agency enforces a law that is substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act
with regard to substantive rights, procedures, remedies, and the availability of judicial review. The Department has developed a two-phase process of substantial equivalency certification.
(a)
Adequacy of Law.
In the first phase, the Assistant Secretary will determine whether, on its face, the fair housing law that the agency administers provides rights, procedures, remedies, and the availability of judicial review that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the federal Fair Housing Act. An affirmative conclusion may result in the Department offering the agency interim certification. An agency must obtain interim certification prior to obtaining certification.
(b)
Adequacy of Performance.
In the second phase, the Assistant Secretary will determine whether, in operation, the fair housing law that the agency administers provides rights, procedures, remedies, and the availability of judicial review that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the federal Fair Housing Act. An affirmative conclusion will result in the Department offering the agency certification.
§ 115.202
Request for interim certification.
(a) A request for interim certification under this subpart shall be filed with the Assistant Secretary by the state or local official having principal responsibility for the administration of the state or local fair housing law. The request shall be supported by the text of the jurisdiction's fair housing law, the law creating and empowering the agency, all laws referenced in the jurisdiction's fair housing law, any regulations and directives issued under the law, and any formal opinions of the State Attorney General or the chief legal officer of the jurisdiction that pertain to the jurisdiction's fair housing law. A request shall also include organizational information of the agency responsible for administering and enforcing the law.
(b) The request and supporting materials shall be filed with the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410-2000. The Assistant Secretary shall forward a copy of the request and supporting materials to the appropriate FHEO regional director. A copy of the request and supporting materials will be kept available for public examination and copying at:
(1) The office of the Assistant Secretary; and
(2) The office of the state or local agency charged with administration and enforcement of the state or local fair housing law.
(c) Upon receipt of a request, HUD will analyze the agency's fair housing law to determine whether it meets the criteria identified in § 115.204.
(d) HUD shall review a request for interim certification from a local agency located in a state with an interim certified or certified substantially equivalent state agency. However, in the request for interim certification, the local agency must certify that the substantially equivalent state law does not prohibit the local agency from administering and enforcing its own fair housing law within the locality.
§ 115.203
Interim certification procedures.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for interim certification filed under § 115.202, the Assistant Secretary may request further information necessary for a determination to be made under this section. The Assistant Secretary may consider the relative priority given to fair housing administration, as compared to the agency's other duties and responsibilities, as well as the compatibility or potential conflict of fair housing objectives with these other duties and responsibilities.
(b) If the Assistant Secretary determines, after application of the criteria set forth in § 115.204, that the state or local law, on its face, provides substantive rights, procedures, remedies, and judicial review procedures for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Act, the Assistant Secretary may offer to enter into an Agreement for the Interim Referral of Complaints and Other Utilization of
Services (interim agreement). The interim agreement will outline the procedures and authorities upon which the interim certification is based.
(c) Such interim agreement, after it is signed by all appropriate signatories, will result in the agency receiving interim certification. Appropriate signatories include the Assistant Secretary, the FHEO regional director, and the state or local official having principal responsibility for the administration of the state or local fair housing law.
(d) Interim agreements shall be for a term of no more than three years.
(e) All regulations, rules, directives, and/or opinions of the State Attorney General or the jurisdiction's chief legal officer that are necessary for the law to be substantially equivalent on its face must be enacted and effective in order for the Assistant Secretary to offer the agency an interim agreement.
(f) Interim certification required prior to certification. An agency is required to obtain interim certification prior to obtaining certification.
§ 115.204
Criteria for adequacy of law.
(a) In order for a determination to be made that a state or local fair housing agency administers a law, which, on its face, provides rights and remedies for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Act, the law must:
(1) Provide for an administrative enforcement body to receive and process complaints and provide that:
(i) Complaints must be in writing;
(ii) Upon the filing of a complaint, the agency shall serve notice upon the complainant acknowledging the filing and advising the complainant of the time limits and choice of forums provided under the law;
(iii) Upon the filing of a complaint, the agency shall promptly serve notice on the respondent or person charged with the commission of a discriminatory housing practice advising of his or her procedural rights and obligations under the statute or ordinance, together with a copy of the complaint;
(iv) A respondent may file an answer to a complaint.
(2) Delegate to the administrative enforcement body comprehensive authority, including subpoena power, to investigate the allegations of complaints, and power to conciliate complaints, and require that:
(i) The agency commences proceedings with respect to the complaint before the end of the 30th day after receipt of the complaint;
(ii) The agency investigates the allegations of the complaint and complete the investigation within the timeframe established by section 810(a)(1)(B)(iv) of the Act or comply with the notification requirements of section 810(a)(1)(C) of the Act;
(iii) The agency make final administrative disposition of a complaint within one year of the date of receipt of a complaint, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the agency is unable to do so, it shall notify the parties, in writing, of the reasons for not doing so;
(iv) Any conciliation agreement arising out of conciliation efforts by the agency shall be an agreement between the respondent, the complainant, and the agency and shall require the approval of the agency;
(v) Each conciliation agreement shall be made public, unless the complainant and respondent otherwise agree and the agency determines that disclosure is not required to further the purpose of the law.
(3) Not place excessive burdens on the aggrieved person that might discourage the filing of complaints, such as:
(i) A provision that a complaint must be filed within any period of time less than 180 days after an alleged discriminatory practice has occurred or terminated;
(ii) Anti-testing provisions;
(iii) Provisions that could subject an aggrieved person to costs, criminal penalties, or fees in connection with the filing of complaints.
(4) Not contain exemptions that substantially reduce the coverage of housing accommodations as compared to section 803 of the Act.
(5) Provide the same protections as those afforded by sections 804, 805, 806, and 818 of the Act, consistent with HUD's implementing regulations found at 24 CFR part 100.
(b) In addition to the factors described in paragraph (a) of this section, the provisions of the state or local law must afford administrative and judicial protection and enforcement of the rights embodied in the law.
(1) The agency must have the authority to:
(i) Grant or seek prompt judicial action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of a complaint, if such action is necessary to carry out the purposes of the law;
(ii) Issue and seek enforceable subpoenas;
(iii) Grant actual damages in an administrative proceeding or provide adjudication in court at agency expense to allow the award of actual damages to an aggrieved person;
(iv) Grant injunctive or other equitable relief, or be specifically authorized to seek such relief in a court of competent jurisdiction;
(v) Provide an administrative proceeding in which a civil penalty may be assessed or provide adjudication in court, at agency expense, allowing the assessment of punitive damages against the respondent.
(2) If an agency's law offers an administrative hearing, the agency must also provide parties an election option substantially equivalent to the election provisions of section 812 of the Act.
(3) Agency actions must be subject to judicial review upon application by any party aggrieved by a final agency order.
(4) Judicial review of a final agency order must be in a court with authority to:
(i) Grant to the petitioner, or to any other party, such temporary relief, restraining order, or other order as the court determines is just and proper;
(ii) Affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the order, or remand the order for further proceeding; and
(iii) Enforce the order to the extent that the order is affirmed or modified.
(c) The requirement that the state or local law prohibit discrimination on the basis of familial status does not require that the state or local law limit the applicability of any reasonable local, state, or federal restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling.
(d) The state or local law may assure that no prohibition of discrimination because of familial status applies to housing for older persons, as described in 24 CFR part 100, subpart E.
(e) A determination of the adequacy of a state or local fair housing law “on its face” is intended to focus on the meaning and intent of the text of the law, as distinguished from the effectiveness of its administration. Accordingly, this determination is not limited to an analysis of the literal text of the law. Regulations, directives, rules of procedure, judicial decisions, or interpretations of the fair housing law by competent authorities will be considered in making this determination.
(f) A law will be found inadequate “on its face” if it permits any of the agency's decision-making authority to be contracted out or delegated to a non-governmental authority. For the purposes of this paragraph, “decision-making authority” includes but is not limited to:
(1) Acceptance of a complaint;
(2) Approval of a conciliation agreement;
(3) Dismissal of a complaint;
(4) Any action specified in § 115.204(a)(2)(iii) or (b)(1); and
(5) Any decision-making regarding whether a particular matter will or will not be pursued.
(g) The state or local law must provide for civil enforcement of the law by an aggrieved person by the commencement of an action in an appropriate court at least one year after the occurrence or termination of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. The court must be empowered to:
(1) Award the plaintiff actual and punitive damages;
(2) Grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any temporary or permanent injunction, temporary restraining order or other order; and
(3) Allow reasonable attorney's fees and costs.
(h) If a state or local law is different than the Act in a way that does not diminish coverage of the Act, including, but not limited to, the protection of additional prohibited bases, then the
state or local law may still be found substantially equivalent.
§ 115.205
Certification procedures.
(a)
Certification.
(1) If the Assistant Secretary determines, after application of criteria set forth in §§ 115.204, 115.206, and this section, that the state or local law, both “on its face” and “in operation,” provides substantive rights, procedures, remedies, and judicial review procedures for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Act, the Assistant Secretary may enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the agency.
(2) The MOU is a written agreement providing for the referral of complaints to the agency and for communication procedures between the agency and HUD that are adequate to permit the Assistant Secretary to monitor the agency's continuing substantial equivalency certification.
(3) The MOU, after it is signed by all appropriate signatories, may authorize an agency to be a certified agency for a period of not more than five years. Appropriate signatories include the Assistant Secretary, the FHEO regional director, and the authorized employee(s) of the agency.
(b) In order to receive certification, during the 60 days prior to the expiration of the agency's interim agreement, the agency must certify to the Assistant Secretary that the state or local fair housing law, “on its face,” continues to be substantially equivalent to the Act (i.e., there have been no amendments to the state or local fair housing law, adoption of rules or procedures concerning the fair housing law, or judicial or other authoritative interpretations of the fair housing law that limit the effectiveness of the agency's fair housing law).
§ 115.206
Performance assessments; Performance standards.
(a)
Frequency of on-site performance assessment during interim certification.
The Assistant Secretary, through the appropriate FHEO regional office, may conduct an on-site performance assessment not later than six months after the execution of the interim agreement. An on-site performance assessment may also be conducted during the six months immediately prior to the expiration of the interim agreement. HUD has the discretion to conduct additional performance assessments during the period of interim certification, as it deems necessary.
(b)
Frequency of on-site performance assessment during certification.
During certification, the Assistant Secretary through the FHEO regional office, may conduct on-site performance assessments every 24 months. HUD has the discretion to conduct additional performance assessments during the period of certification, as it deems necessary.
(c) In conducting the performance assessment, the FHEO regional office shall determine whether the agency engages in timely, comprehensive, and thorough fair housing complaint investigation, conciliation, and enforcement activities. In the performance assessment report, the FHEO regional office may recommend to the Assistant Secretary whether the agency should continue to be interim certified or certified. In conducting the performance assessment, the FHEO regional office shall also determine whether the agency is in compliance with the requirements for participation in the FHAP enumerated in §§ 115.307, 115.308, 115.309, 115.310, and 115.311 of this part. In the performance assessment report, the FHEO regional office shall identify whether the agency meets the requirements of §§ 115.307, 115.308, 115.309, 115.310, and 115.311 of this part, and, therefore, should continue receiving funding under the FHAP.
(d) At a minimum, the performance assessment will consider the following to determine the effectiveness of an agency's fair housing complaint processing, consistent with such guidance as may be issued by HUD:
(1) The agency's case processing procedures;
(2) The thoroughness of the agency's case processing;
(3) A review of cause and no cause determinations for quality of investigations and consistency with appropriate standards;
(4) A review of conciliation agreements and other settlements;
(5) A review of the agency's administrative closures; and
(6) A review of the agency's enforcement procedures, including administrative hearings and judicial proceedings.
(e)
Performance standards.
HUD shall utilize the following performance standards while conducting performance assessments. If an agency does not meet one or more performance standard(s), HUD shall utilize the performance deficiency procedures enumerated in § 115.210.
(1)
Performance Standard 1.
Commence complaint proceedings, carry forward such proceedings, complete investigations, issue determinations, and make final administrative dispositions in a timely manner. To meet this standard, the performance assessment will consider the timeliness of the agency's actions with respect to its complaint processing, including, but not limited to:
(i) Whether the agency began its processing of fair housing complaints within 30 days of receipt;
(ii) Whether the agency completes the investigative activities with respect to a complaint within 100 days from the date of receipt or, if it is impracticable to do so, notifies the parties in writing of the reason(s) for the delay;
(iii) Whether the agency makes a determination of reasonable cause or no reasonable cause with respect to a complaint within 100 days from the date of receipt or, if it is impracticable to do so, notifies the parties in writing of the reason(s) for the delay;
(iv) Whether the agency makes a final administrative disposition of a complaint within one year from the date of receipt or, if it is impracticable to do so, notifies the parties in writing of the reason(s) for the delay; and
(v) Whether the agency completed the investigation of the complaint and prepared a complete, final investigative report.
(vi) When an agency is unable to complete investigative activities with respect to a complaint within 100 days, the agency must send written notification to the parties, indicating the reason(s) for the delay, within 110 days of the filing of the complaint.
(2)
Performance Standard 2.
Administrative closures are utilized only in limited and appropriate circumstances. Administrative closures should be distinguished from a closure on the merits and may not be used instead of making a recommendation or determination of reasonable or no reasonable cause. HUD will provide further guidance to interim and certified agencies on the appropriate circumstances for administrative closures.
(3)
Performance Standard 3.
During the period beginning with the filing of a complaint and ending with filing of a charge or dismissal, the agency will, to the extent feasible, attempt to conciliate the complaint. After a charge has been issued, the agency will, to the extent feasible, continue to attempt settlement until a hearing or a judicial proceeding has begun.
(4)
Performance Standard 4.
The agency conducts compliance reviews of settlements, conciliation agreements, and orders resolving discriminatory housing practices. The performance assessment shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) An assessment of the agency's procedures for conducting compliance reviews; and
(ii) Terms and conditions of agreements and orders issued.
(5)
Performance Standard 5.
The agency must consistently and affirmatively seek and obtain the type of relief designed to prevent recurrences of discriminatory practices. The performance assessment shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) An assessment of the agency's use of its authority to seek actual damages, as appropriate;
(ii) An assessment of the agency's use of its authority to seek and assess civil penalties or punitive damages, as appropriate;
(iii) An assessment of the types of relief sought by the agency with consideration for the inclusion of affirmative provisions designed to protect the public interest;
(iv) A review of all types of relief obtained;
(v) A review of the adequacy of the relief sought and obtained in light of the issues raised by the complaint;
(vi) The number of complaints closed with relief and the number closed without relief;
(vii) The number of complaints that proceed to administrative hearing and the result; and
(viii) The number of complaints that proceed to judicial proceedings and the result.
(6)
Performance Standard 6.
The agency must consistently and affirmatively seek to eliminate all prohibited practices under its fair housing law. An assessment under this standard will include, but not be limited to, an identification of the education and outreach efforts of the agency.
(7)
Performance Standard 7.
The agency must demonstrate that it receives and processes a reasonable number of complaints cognizable under both the federal Fair Housing Act and the agency's fair housing statute or ordinance. The reasonable number will be determined by HUD and based on all relevant circumstances including, but not limited to, the population of the jurisdiction that the agency serves, the length of time that the agency has participated in the FHAP, and the number of complaints that the agency has received and processed in the past. If an agency fails to receive and process a reasonable number of complaints during a year of FHAP participation, given education and outreach efforts conducted and receipts of complaints, then the FHEO regional director may offer the agency a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP), as described in § 115.210(a)(2). The PIP will set forth the number of complaints the agency must process during subsequent years of FHAP participation. After issuing the PIP, the FHEO regional office will provide the agency with technical assistance on ways to increase awareness of fair housing rights and responsibilities in the jurisdiction.
(8)
Performance Standard 8.
The agency must report to HUD on the final status of all dual-filed complaints where a determination of reasonable cause was made. The report must identify, at a minimum, how complaints were resolved (e.g., settlement, judicial proceedings, or administrative hearing), when they were resolved, the forum in which they were resolved, and types and amounts of relief obtained.
(9)
Performance Standard 9.
The agency must conform its performance to the provisions of any written agreements executed by the agency and the Department related to substantial equivalency certification, including, but not limited to, the interim agreement or MOU.
§ 115.207
Consequences of interim certification and certification.
(a) Whenever a complaint received by the Assistant Secretary alleges violations of a fair housing law administered by an agency that has been interim certified or certified as substantially equivalent, the complaint will be referred to the agency, and no further action shall be taken by the Assistant Secretary with respect to such complaint except as provided for by the Act, this part, 24 CFR part 103, subpart C, and any written agreements executed by the Agency and the Assistant Secretary. HUD shall make referrals to interim certified and certified local agencies in accordance with this section even when the local agency is located in a state with an interim certified or certified state agency.
(b) If HUD determines that a complaint has not been processed in a timely manner in accordance with the performance standards set forth in § 115.206, HUD may reactivate the complaint, conduct its own investigation and conciliation efforts, and make a determination consistent with 24 CFR part 103.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, whenever the Assistant Secretary has reason to believe that a complaint demonstrates a basis for the commencement of proceedings against any respondent under section 814(a) of the Act or for proceedings by any governmental licensing or supervisory authorities, the Assistant Secretary shall transmit the information upon which such belief is based to the Attorney General, federal financial regulatory agencies, other federal agencies, or other appropriate governmental licensing or supervisory authorities.
§ 115.208
Procedures for renewal of certification.
(a) If the Assistant Secretary affirmatively concludes that the agency's law and performance have complied with the requirements of this part in each of the five years of certification, the Assistant Secretary may renew the certification of the agency.
(b) In determining whether to renew the certification of an agency, the Assistant Secretary's review may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Performance assessments of the agency conducted by the Department during the five years of certification;
(2) The agency's own certification that the state or local fair housing law continues to be substantially equivalent both “on its face” and “in operation;” (i.e., there have been no amendments to the state or local fair housing law, adoption of rules or procedures concerning the fair housing law, or judicial or other authoritative interpretations of the fair housing law that limit the effectiveness of the agency's fair housing law); and
(3) Any and all public comments regarding the relevant state and local laws and the performance of the agency in enforcing the law.
(c) If the Assistant Secretary decides to renew an agency's certification, the Assistant Secretary will offer the agency either a new MOU or an Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding (addendum). The new MOU or addendum will extend and update the MOU between HUD and the agency.
(d) The new MOU or addendum, when signed by all appropriate signatories, will result in the agency's certification being renewed for five years from the date on which the previous MOU was to expire. Appropriate signatories include the Assistant Secretary, the FHEO regional director, and the authorized employee(s) of the agency.
(e) The provisions of this section may be applied to an agency that has an expired MOU or an expired addendum.
§ 115.209
Technical assistance.
(a) The Assistant Secretary, through the FHEO regional office, may provide technical assistance to the interim and certified agencies at any time. The agency may request such technical assistance or the FHEO regional office may determine the necessity for technical assistance and require the agency's cooperation and participation.
(b) The Assistant Secretary, through FHEO headquarters or regional staff, will require that the agency participate in training conferences and seminars that will enhance the agency's ability to process complaints alleging discriminatory housing practices.
§ 115.210
Performance deficiency procedures; Suspension; Withdrawal.
(a) HUD may utilize the following performance deficiency procedures if it determines at any time that the agency does not meet one or more of the performance standards enumerated in § 115.206. The performance deficiency procedures may be applied to agencies with either interim certification or certification. If an agency fails to meet performance standard 7, HUD may bypass the technical assistance performance deficiency procedure and proceed to the PIP.
(1)
Technical assistance.
After discovering the deficiency, the FHEO regional office should immediately inform the agency and provide the agency with technical assistance.
(2)
Performance improvement plan.
If, following technical assistance, the agency does not bring its performance into compliance with § 115.206 within a time period identified by the FHEO regional director, the FHEO regional director may offer the agency a PIP.
(i) The PIP will outline the agency's performance deficiencies, identify the necessary corrective actions, and include a timetable for completion.
(ii) If the agency receives a PIP, funding under the FHAP may be suspended for the duration of the PIP.
(iii) Once the agency has implemented the corrective actions to eliminate the deficiencies, and such corrective actions are accepted by the FHEO regional director, funding may be restored.
(iv) The FHEO regional office may provide the agency with technical assistance during the period of the PIP, if appropriate.
(b)
Suspension.
If the agency does not agree to implement the PIP or does not
implement the corrective actions identified in the PIP within the time allotted, then the FHEO regional director may suspend the agency's interim certification or certification.
(1) The FHEO regional director shall notify the agency in writing of the specific reasons for the suspension and provide the agency with an opportunity to respond within 30 days.
(2) Suspension shall not exceed 180 days.
(3) During the period of suspension, HUD will not refer complaints to the agency.
(4) If an agency is suspended, the FHEO regional office may elect not to provide funding under the FHAP to the agency during the period of suspension, unless and until the Assistant Secretary determines that the agency is fully in compliance with § 115.206.
(5) HUD may provide the agency with technical assistance during the period of suspension, if appropriate.
(6) No more than 60 days prior to the end of suspension, the FHEO regional office shall conduct a performance assessment of the agency.
(c)
Withdrawal.
If, following the performance assessment conducted at the end of suspension, the Assistant Secretary determines that the agency has not corrected the deficiencies, the Assistant Secretary may propose to withdraw the interim certification or certification of the agency.
(1) The Assistant Secretary shall proceed with withdrawal, unless the agency provides information or documentation that establishes that the agency's administration of its law meets all of the substantial equivalency certification criteria set forth in 24 CFR part 115.
(2) The Assistant Secretary shall inform the agency in writing of the reasons for the withdrawal.
(3) During any period after which the Assistant Secretary proposes withdrawal, until such time as the agency establishes that administration of its law meets all of the substantial equivalency certification criteria set forth in 24 CFR part 115, the agency shall be ineligible for funding under the FHAP.
§ 115.211
Changes limiting effectiveness of agency's law; Corrective actions; Suspension; Withdrawal; Consequences of repeal; Changes not limiting effectiveness.
(a)
Changes limiting effectiveness of agency's law.
(1) If a state or local fair housing law that HUD has previously deemed substantially equivalent to the Act is amended; or rules or procedures concerning the fair housing law are adopted; or judicial or other authoritative interpretations of the fair housing law are issued, the interim-certified or certified agency must inform the Assistant Secretary of such amendment, adoption, or interpretation within 60 days of its discovery.
(2) The requirements of this section shall apply equally to the amendment, adoption, or interpretation of any related law that bears on any aspect of the effectiveness of the agency's fair housing law.
(3) The Assistant Secretary may conduct a review to determine if the amendment, adoption, or interpretation limits the effectiveness of the interim agency's fair housing law.
(b)
Corrective actions.
(1) If the review indicates that the agency's law no longer meets the criteria identified in § 115.204, the Assistant Secretary will so notify the agency in writing. Following notification, HUD may take appropriate actions, including, but not limited to, any or all of the following:
(i) Declining to refer some or all complaints to the agency unless and until the fair housing law meets the criteria identified in § 115.204;
(ii) Electing not to provide payment for complaints processed by the agency unless and until the fair housing law meets the criteria identified in § 115.204;
(iii) Providing technical assistance and/or guidance to the agency to assist the agency in curing deficiencies in its fair housing law.
(2)
Suspension based on changes in the law.
If the corrective actions identified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section fail to bring the state or local fair housing law back into compliance with the criteria identified in § 115.204 within the timeframe identified in HUD's notification to the agency, the Assistant Secretary may suspend the agency's interim certification
or certification based on changes in the law or a related law.
(i) The Assistant Secretary will notify the agency in writing of the specific reasons for the suspension and provide the agency with an opportunity to respond within 30 days.
(ii) During the period of suspension, the Assistant Secretary has the discretion to not refer some or all complaints to the agency unless and until the agency's law meets the criteria identified in § 115.204.
(iii) During suspension, HUD may elect not to provide payment for complaints processed unless and until the agency's law meets the criteria identified in § 115.204.
(iv) During the period of suspension, if the fair housing law is brought back into compliance with the criteria identified in § 115.204, and the Assistant Secretary determines that the fair housing law remains substantially equivalent to the Act, the Assistant Secretary will rescind the suspension and reinstate the agency's interim certification or certification.
(3)
Withdrawal based on changes in the law.
If the Assistant Secretary determines that the agency has not brought its law back into compliance with the criteria identified in § 115.204 during the period of suspension, the Assistant Secretary may propose to withdraw the agency's interim certification or certification.
(i) The Assistant Secretary will proceed with withdrawal unless the agency provides information or documentation that establishes that the agency's current law meets the criteria of substantial equivalency certification identified in § 115.204.
(ii) The Assistant Secretary will inform the agency in writing of the reasons for the withdrawal.
(c)(1) If, following notification from HUD that its fair housing law no longer meets the criteria identified in § 115.204, an interim-certified or certified agency unequivocally expresses to HUD that its fair housing law will not be brought back into compliance, the Assistant Secretary may forgo suspension and proceed directly to withdrawal of the agency's interim certification or certification.
(2) During any period after which the Assistant Secretary proposes withdrawal, until such time as the agency establishes that administration of its law meets all of the substantial equivalency certification criteria set forth in 24 CFR part 115, the agency shall be ineligible for funding under the FHAP.
(d)
Consequences of repeal.
If a state or local fair housing law that HUD has previously deemed substantially equivalent to the Act is repealed, in whole or in part, or a related law that bears on any aspect of the effectiveness of the agency's fair housing law is repealed, in whole or in part, the Assistant Secretary may immediately withdraw the agency's interim certification or certification.
(e)
Changes not limiting effectiveness.
Nothing in this section is meant to limit the Assistant Secretary's authority to determine that a change to a fair housing law does not jeopardize the substantial equivalency interim certification or certification of an agency.
(1) Under such circumstances, the Assistant Secretary may proceed in maintaining the existing relationship with the agency, as set forth in the interim agreement or MOU.
(2) Alternatively, the Assistant Secretary may decide not to refer certain types of complaints to the agency. The Assistant Secretary may elect not to provide payment for these complaints and may require the agency to refer such complaints to the Department for investigation, conciliation, and enforcement activities.
(3) When the Assistant Secretary determines that a change to a fair housing law does not jeopardize an agency's substantial equivalency certification, the Assistant Secretary need not proceed to suspension or withdrawal if the change is not reversed.
§ 115.212
Request after withdrawal.
(a) An agency that has had its interim certification or certification withdrawn, either voluntarily or by the Department, may request substantial equivalency interim certification or certification.
(b) The request shall be filed in accordance with § 115.202.
(c) The Assistant Secretary shall determine whether the state or local law,
on its face, provides substantive rights, procedures, remedies, and judicial review procedures for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the federal Fair Housing Act. To meet this standard, the state or local law must meet the criteria enumerated in § 115.204.
(d) Additionally, if the agency had documented performance deficiencies that contributed to the past withdrawal, then the Department shall consider the agency's performance and any steps the agency has taken to correct performance deficiencies and to prevent them from recurring in determining whether to grant interim certification or certification. The review of the agency's performance shall include HUD conducting a performance assessment in accordance with § 115.206.

# Subpart C—Fair Housing Assistance Program
§ 115.300
Purpose.
The purpose of the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) is to provide assistance and reimbursement to state and local fair housing enforcement agencies. The intent of this funding program is to build a coordinated intergovernmental enforcement effort to further fair housing and to encourage the agencies to assume a greater share of the responsibility for the administration and enforcement of fair housing laws.
The financial assistance is designed to provide support for:
(a) The processing of dual-filed complaints;
(b) Training under the Fair Housing Act and the agencies' fair housing law;
(c) The provision of technical assistance;
(d) The creation and maintenance of data and information systems; and
(e) The development and enhancement of fair housing education and outreach projects, special fair housing enforcement efforts, fair housing partnership initiatives, and other fair housing projects.
§ 115.301
Agency eligibility criteria; Funding availability.
An agency with certification or interim certification under subpart B of this part, and which has entered into a MOU or interim agreement, is eligible to participate in the FHAP. All FHAP funding is subject to congressional appropriation.
§ 115.302
Capacity building funds.
(a) Capacity building (CB) funds are funds that HUD may provide to an agency with interim certification.
(b) CB funds will be provided in a fixed annual amount to be utilized for the eligible activities established pursuant to § 115.303. When the fixed annual amount will not adequately compensate an agency in its first year of participation in the FHAP due to the large number of fair housing complaints that the agency reasonably anticipates processing, HUD may provide the agency with additional funds.
(c) HUD may provide CB funds during an agency's first three years of participation in the FHAP. However, in the second and third year of the agency's participation in the FHAP, HUD has the option to permit the agency to receive contribution funds under § 115.304, instead of CB funds.
(d) In order to receive CB funding, agencies must submit a statement of work prior to the signing of the cooperative agreement. The statement of work must identify:
(1) The objectives and activities to be carried out with the CB funds received;
(2) A plan for training all of the agency's employees involved in the administration of the agency's fair housing law;
(3) A statement of the agency's intention to participate in HUD-sponsored training in accordance with the training requirements set out in the cooperative agreement;
(4) A description of the agency's complaint processing data and information system, or, alternatively, whether the agency plans to use CB funds to purchase and install a data system;
(5) A description of any other fair housing activities that the agency will undertake with its CB funds. All such activities must address matters affecting fair housing enforcement that are
cognizable under the Fair Housing Act. Any activities that do not address the implementation of the agency's fair housing law, and that are therefore not cognizable under the Fair Housing Act, will be disapproved.
§ 115.303
Eligible activities for capacity building funds.
The primary purposes of capacity-building funding are to provide for complaint activities and to support activities that produce increased awareness of fair housing rights and remedies. All such activities must support the agency's administration and enforcement of its fair housing law and address matters affecting fair housing that are cognizable under the Fair Housing Act.
§ 115.304
Agencies eligible for contributions funds.
(a) An agency that has received CB funds for one to three consecutive years may be eligible for contributions funding. Contributions funding consists of five categories:
(1) Complaint processing (CP) funds;
(2) Special enforcement effort (SEE) funds (see § 115.305);
(3) Training funds (see § 115.306);
(4) Administrative cost (AC) funds; and
(5) Partnership (P) funds.
(b)
CP funds.
(1) Agencies receiving CP funds will receive such support based solely on the number of complaints processed by the agency and accepted for payment by the FHEO regional director during a consecutive, specifically identified, 12-month period. The 12-month period will be identified in the cooperative agreement between HUD and the agency. The FHEO regional office shall determine whether or not cases are acceptably processed based on requirements enumerated in the cooperative agreement and its attachments/appendices, performance standards set forth in 24 CFR 115.206, and provisions of the interim agreement or MOU.
(2) The amount of funding to agencies that are new to contributions funding will be based on the number of complaints acceptably processed by the agency during the specifically identified 12-month period preceding the signing of the cooperative agreement.
(c)
AC funds.
(1) Agencies that acceptably process 100 or more cases will receive no less than 10 percent of the agency's total FHAP payment amount for the preceding year, in addition to CP funds, contingent on fiscal year appropriations. Agencies that acceptably process fewer than 100 cases will receive a flat rate, contingent on fiscal year appropriations.
(2) Agencies will be required to provide HUD with a statement of how they intend to use the AC funds. HUD may require that some or all AC funding be directed to activities designed to create, modify, or improve local, regional, or national information systems concerning fair housing matters (including the purchase of state-of-the-art computer systems, obtaining and maintaining Internet access, etc.).
(d)
P funds.
The purpose of P funds is for an agency participating in the FHAP to utilize the services of individuals and/or public, private, for-profit, or not-for-profit organizations that have expertise needed to effectively carry out the provisions of the agency's fair housing law. P funds are fixed amounts and shall be allocated based on the FHAP appropriation. Agencies must consult with the CAO and GTR in identifying appropriate usage of P funds for the geographical area that the agency services. Some examples of proper P fund usage include, but are not limited to:
(1) Contracting with qualified organizations to conduct fair housing testing in appropriate cases;
(2) Hiring experienced, temporary staff to assist in the investigation of complex or aged cases;
(3) Partnering with grassroots, faith-based or other community-based organizations to conduct education and outreach to people of different backgrounds on how to live together peacefully in the same housing complex, neighborhood, or community;
(4) Contracting with individuals outside the agency who have special expertise needed for the investigation of fair housing cases (e.g., architects for design and construction cases or qualified
individuals from colleges and universities for the development of data and statistical analyses).
§ 115.305
Special enforcement effort (SEE) funds.
(a) SEE funds are funds that HUD may provide to an agency to enhance enforcement activities of the agency's fair housing law. SEE funds will be a maximum of 20 percent of the agency's total FHAP cooperative agreement for the previous contract year, based on approval of eligible activity or activities, and contingent upon the appropriation of funds. All agencies receiving contributions funds are eligible to receive SEE funds if they meet three of the six criteria set out in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section:
(1) The agency enforced a subpoena or made use of its prompt judicial action authority within the past year;
(2) The agency has held at least one administrative hearing or has had at least one case on a court's docket for civil proceedings during the past year;
(3) At least ten percent of the agency's fair housing caseload resulted in written conciliation agreements providing monetary relief for the complainant as well as remedial action, monitoring, reporting, and public interest relief provisions;
(4) The agency has had in the most recent three years, or is currently engaged in, at least one major fair housing systemic investigation requiring an exceptional amount of funds expenditure;
(5) The agency's administration of its fair housing law received meritorious mention for its fair housing complaint processing or other fair housing activities that were innovative. The meritorious mention criterion may be met by an agency's successful fair housing work being identified and/or published by a reputable source. Examples of meritorious mention include, but are not limited to:
(i) An article in a minority newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation that identifies the agency's role in the successful resolution of a housing discrimination complaint;
(ii) A letter from a sponsoring organization of a fair housing conference or symposium that identifies the agency's successful participation and presentation at the conference or symposium;
(iii) A letter of praise, proclamation, or other formal documentation from the mayor, county executive, or governor recognizing the fair housing achievement of the agency.
(6) The agency has completed the investigation of at least 10 fair housing complaints during the previous funding year.
(b) Regardless of whether an agency meets the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, an agency is ineligible for SEE funds if:
(1) Twenty percent or more of an agency's fair housing complaints result in administrative closures; or
(2) The agency is currently on a PIP, or its interim certification or certification has been suspended during the federal fiscal year in which SEE funds are sought.
(c) SEE funding amounts are subject to the FHAP appropriation by Congress and will be described in writing in the cooperative agreements annually. HUD will periodically publish a list of activities eligible for SEE funding in the
Federal Register.
§ 115.306
Training funds.
(a) All agencies, including agencies that receive CB funds, are eligible to receive training funds. Training funds are fixed amounts based on the number of agency employees to be trained. Training funds shall be allocated based on the FHAP appropriation. Training funds may be used only for HUD-approved or HUD-sponsored training. Agency-initiated training or other formalized training may be included in this category. However, such training must first be approved by the CAO and the GTR. Specifics on the amount of training funds that an agency will receive and, if applicable, amounts that may be deducted, will be set out in the cooperative agreement each year.
(b) Each agency must send staff to mandatory FHAP training sponsored by HUD, including, but not necessarily limited to, the National Fair Housing Training Academy and the National Fair Housing Policy Conference. If the agency does not participate in mandatory HUD-approved and HUD-sponsored
training, training funds will be deducted from the agency's overall training amount. All staff of the agency responsible for the administration and enforcement of the fair housing law must participate in HUD-approved or HUD-sponsored training each year.
§ 115.307
Requirements for participation in the FHAP; Corrective and remedial action for failing to comply with requirements.
(a) Agencies that participate in the FHAP must meet the requirements enumerated in this section. The FHEO regional office shall review the agency's compliance with the requirements of this section when it conducts on-site performance assessments in accordance with § 115.206. The requirements for participation in the FHAP are as follows:
(1) The agency must conform to all reporting and record maintenance requirements set forth in § 115.308, as well as any additional reporting and record maintenance requirements identified by the Assistant Secretary.
(2) The agency must agree to on-site technical assistance and guidance and implementation of corrective actions set out by the Department in response to deficiencies found during the technical assistance or performance assessment evaluations of the agency's operations.
(3) The agency must use the Department's official complaint data information system and must input all relevant data and information into the system in a timely manner.
(4) The agency must agree to implement and adhere to policies and procedures (as the agency's laws allow) provided to the agency by the Assistant Secretary, including, but not limited to, guidance on investigative techniques, case file preparation and organization, and implementation of data elements for complaint tracking.
(5) If an agency that participates in the FHAP enforces antidiscrimination laws other than a fair housing law (e.g., administration of a fair employment law), the agency must annually provide a certification to HUD stating that it spends at least 20 percent of its total annual budget on fair housing activities. The term “total annual budget,” as used in this subsection, means the entire budget assigned by the jurisdiction to the agency for enforcing and administering antidiscrimination laws, but does not include FHAP funds.
(6) The agency may not co-mingle FHAP funds with other funds. FHAP funds must be segregated from the agency's and the state or local government's other funds and must be used for the purpose that HUD provided the funds.
(7) An agency may not unilaterally reduce the level of financial resources currently committed to fair housing activities (budget and staff reductions or other actions outside the control of the agency will not, alone, result in a negative determination for the agency's participation in the FHAP).
(8) The agency must comply with the provisions, certifications, and assurances required in any and all written agreements executed by the agency and the Department related to participation in the FHAP, including, but not limited to, the cooperative agreement.
(9) The agency must draw down its funds in a timely manner.
(10) The agency must be audited and receive copies of the audit reports in accordance with applicable rules and regulations of the state and local government in which it is located.
(11) The agency must participate in all required training, as described in § 115.306(b).
(12) If the agency subcontracts any activity for which the subcontractor will receive FHAP funds, the agency must conform to the subcontracting requirements of § 115.309.
(13) If the agency receives a complaint that may implicate the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, then the agency must conform to the requirements of § 115.310.
(14) If the agency utilizes FHAP funds to conduct fair housing testing, then the agency must conform to the requirements of § 115.311.
(b)
Corrective and remedial action for failing to comply with requirements.
The agency's refusal to provide information, assist in implementation, or carry out the requirements of this section may result in the denial or interruption of its receipt of FHAP funds. Prior to denying or interrupting an
agency's receipt of FHAP funds, HUD will put the agency on notice of its intent to deny or interrupt. HUD will identify its rationale for the denial or interruption and provide the agency with an opportunity to respond within a reasonable period of time. If, within the time period requested, the agency does not provide information or documentation indicating that the requirement(s) enumerated in this section is/are met, HUD may proceed with the denial or interruption of FHAP funds. If, at any time following the denial or interruption, HUD learns that the agency meets the requirements enumerated in this section, HUD may opt to reinstate the agency's receipt of FHAP funds.
§ 115.308
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The agency shall establish and maintain records demonstrating:
(1) Its financial administration of FHAP funds; and
(2) Its performance under the FHAP.
(b) The agency will provide to the FHEO regional director reports maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The agency will provide reports to the FHEO regional director in accordance with the frequency and content requirements identified in the cooperative agreement. In addition, the agency will provide reports on the final status of complaints following reasonable cause findings, in accordance with Performance Standard 8 identified in § 115.206.
(c) The agency will permit reasonable public access to its records consistent with the jurisdiction's requirements for release of information. Documents relevant to the agency's participation in the FHAP must be made available at the agency's office during normal working hours (except that documents with respect to ongoing fair housing complaint investigations are exempt from public review consistent with federal and/or state law).
(d) The Secretary, Inspector General of HUD, and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to all pertinent books, accounts, reports, files, and other payments for surveys, audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts as they relate to the agency's participation in FHAP.
(e) All files will be kept in such fashion as to permit audits under 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[72 FR 19074, Apr. 16, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 115.309
Subcontracting under the FHAP.
If an agency subcontracts to a public or private organization any activity for which the organization will receive FHAP funds, the agency must ensure and certify in writing that the organization is:
(a) Using services, facilities, and electronic information technologies that are accessible in accordance with the Americans with Disability Act (ADA) (42 U.S.C. 12101), Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 701), and Section 508(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act amendments of 1998;
(b) Complying with the standards of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 1441);
(c) Affirmatively furthering fair housing in the provision of housing and housing-related services; and
(d) Not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any federal debarment or agency.
§ 115.310
FHAP and the First Amendment.
None of the funding made available under the FHAP may be used to investigate or prosecute any activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the filing or maintaining of a non-frivolous legal action, that may be protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. HUD guidance is available that sets forth the procedures HUD will follow when it is asked to accept and dual-file a case that may implicate the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
§ 115.311
Testing.
The following requirements apply to testing activities funded under the FHAP:
(a) The testing must be done in accordance with a HUD-approved testing methodology;
(b) Testers must receive training or be experienced in testing procedures and techniques.
(c) Testers and the organizations conducting tests, and the employees and agents of these organizations may not:
(1) Have an economic interest in the outcome of the test, without prejudice to the right of any person or entity to recover damages for any cognizable injury;
(2) Be a relative or acquaintance of any party in a case;
(3) Have had any employment or other affiliation, within five years, with the person or organization to be tested; or
(4) Be a competitor of the person or organization to be tested in the listing, rental, sale, or financing of real estate.
[72 FR 19074, Apr. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 22942, Apr. 3, 2024]
Pt. 121

# PART 121—COLLECTION OF DATA
Sec.
121.1
Purpose.
121.2
Furnishing of data by program participation.

# Authority:
Title VIII, Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3600-3620); E.O. 11063, 27 FR 11527; sec. 602, Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1); sec. 562, Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3608a); sec. 2, National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1703; sec. 7(d), Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
54 FR 3317, Jan. 23, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 121.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to enable the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to carry out his or her responsibilities under the Fair Housing Act, Executive Order 11063, dated November 20, 1962, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and section 562 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987. These authorities prohibit discrimination in housing and in programs receiving financial assistance from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and they direct the Secretary to administer the Department's housing and urban development programs and activities in a manner affirmatively to further these policies and to collect certain data to assess the extent of compliance with these policies.
§ 121.2
Furnishing of data by program participants.
Participants in the programs administered by the Department shall furnish to the Department such data concerning the race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, and family characteristics of persons and households who are applicants for, participants in, or beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries of, those programs as the Secretary may determine to be necessary or appropriate to enable him or her to carry out his or her responsibilities under the authorities referred to in § 121.1.
Pt. 125

# PART 125—FAIR HOUSING INITIATIVES PROGRAM
Sec.
125.103
Definitions.
125.104
Program administration.
125.105
Application requirements.
125.106
Waivers.
125.107
Testers.
125.201
Administrative Enforcement Initiative.
125.301
Education and Outreach Initiative.
125.401
Private Enforcement Initiative.
125.501
Fair Housing Organizations Initiative.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 3616 note.

# Source:
60 FR 58452, Nov. 27, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 125.103
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions that appear at section 802 of title VIII (42 U.S.C. 3602), the following definitions apply to this part:
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity in the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Expert witness
means a person who testifies, or who would have testified but for a resolution of the case before a verdict is entered, and who qualifies as an expert witness under the rules of the court where the litigation funded by this part is brought.
Fair housing enforcement organization
(FHO) means any organization, whether or not it is solely engaged in fair housing enforcement activities, that—
(1) Is organized as a private, tax-exempt, nonprofit, charitable organization;
(2) Is currently engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims; and
(3) Upon the receipt of FHIP funds will continue to be engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims.
The Department may request an organization to submit documentation to support its claimed status as an FHO.
FHIP
means the Fair Housing Initiatives Program authorized by section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3616 note).
Meritorious claims
means enforcement activities by an organization that resulted in lawsuits, consent decrees, legal settlements, HUD and/or substantially equivalent agency (under 24 CFR 115.6) conciliations and organization initiated settlements with the outcome of monetary awards for compensatory and/or punitive damages to plaintiffs or complaining parties, or other affirmative relief, including the provision of housing.
Qualified fair housing enforcement organization
(QFHO) means any organization, whether or not it is solely engaged in fair housing enforcement activities, that—
(1) Is organized as a private, tax-exempt, nonprofit, charitable organization;
(2) Has at least 2 years experience in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims; and
(3) Is engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims at the time of application for FHIP assistance.
For the purpose of meeting the 2-year qualification period for the activities included in paragraph (2) of this definition, it is not necessary that the activities were conducted simultaneously, as long as each activity was conducted for 2 years. It is also not necessary for the activities to have been conducted for 2 consecutive or continuous years. An organization may aggregate its experience in each activity over the 3 year period preceding its application to meet the 2-year qualification period requirement.
The Department may request an organization to submit documentation to support its claimed status as a QFHO.
Title VIII
means title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3600-3620), commonly cited as the Fair Housing Act.
[60 FR 58452, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 5206, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 125.104
Program administration.
(a) FHIP is administered by the Assistant Secretary.
(b) FHIP funding is made available under the following initiatives:
(1) The Administrative Enforcement Initiative;
(2) The Education and Outreach Initiative;
(3) The Private Enforcement Initiative; and
(4) The Fair Housing Organizations Initiative.
(c) FHIP funding is made available in accordance with the requirements of the authorizing statute (42 U.S.C. 3616 note), the regulation in this part, and Notices of Funding Availability (NOFAs), and is awarded through a grant or other funding instrument.
(d) Notices of Funding Availability under this program will be published periodically in the
Federal Register.
Such notices will announce amounts available for award, eligible applicants, and eligible activities, and may limit funding to one or more of the Initiatives. Notices of Funding Availability will include the specific selection criteria for awards, and will indicate the relative weight of each criterion. The selection criteria announced in Notices of Funding Availability will be designed to permit the Department to target and respond to areas of concern, and to promote the purposes of the FHIP in an equitable and cost efficient manner.
(e) All recipients of FHIP funds must conform to reporting and record maintenance requirements determined appropriate by the Assistant Secretary. Each funding instrument will include provisions under which the Department may suspend, terminate or recapture funds if the recipient does not conform to these requirements.
(f) Recipients of FHIP funds may not use such funds for the payment of expenses in connection with litigation against the United States.
(g) All recipients of funds under this program must conduct audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[60 FR 58452, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 125.105
Application requirements.
Each application for funding under the FHIP must contain the following information, which will be assessed against the specific selection criteria set forth in a Notice of Funding Availability.
(a) A description of the practice (or practices) that has affected adversely the achievement of the goal of fair housing, and that will be addressed by the applicant's proposed activities.
(b) A description of the specific activities proposed to be conducted with FHIP funds including the final product(s) and/or any reports to be produced; the cost of each activity proposed; and a schedule for completion of the proposed activities.
(c) A description of the applicant's experience in formulating or carrying out programs to prevent or eliminate discriminatory housing practices.
(d) An estimate of public or private resources that may be available to assist the proposed activities.
(e) A description of the procedures to be used for monitoring conduct and assessing results of the proposed activities.
(f) A description of the benefits that successful completion of the project will produce to enhance fair housing, and the indicators by which these benefits are to be measured.
(g) A description of the expected long term viability of project results.
(h) Any additional information that may be required by a Notice of Funding Availability published in the
Federal Register.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0033. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the collection displays a valid control number.)
§ 125.106
Waivers.
Upon determination of good cause, the Assistant Secretary may waive, in a published Notice of Funding Availability or other
Federal Register
notice, any requirement in this part that is not required by statute.
§ 125.107
Testers.
The following requirements apply to testing activities funded under the FHIP:
(a) Testers must receive training or be experienced in testing procedures and techniques.
(b) Testers and the organizations conducting tests, and the employees and agents of these organizations may not:
(1) Have an economic interest in the outcome of the test, without prejudice to the right of any person or entity to recover damages for any cognizable injury;
(2) Be a relative of any party in a case;
(3) Have had any employment or other affiliation, within one year, with the person or organization to be tested; or
(4) Be a licensed competitor of the person or organization to be tested in the listing, rental, sale, or financing of real estate.
[60 FR 58452, Nov. 27, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 22942, Apr. 3, 2024]
§ 125.201
Administrative Enforcement Initiative.
The Administrative Enforcement Initiative provides funding to State and local fair housing agencies administering fair housing laws recognized by the Assistant Secretary under § 115.6 of this subchapter as providing rights and remedies which are substantially equivalent to those provided in title VIII.
§ 125.301
Education and Outreach Initiative.
(a) The Education and Outreach Initiative provides funding for the purpose of developing, implementing, carrying out, or coordinating education and outreach programs designed to inform members of the public concerning their rights and obligations under the provisions of fair housing laws.
(b) Notices of Funding Availability published for the FHIP may divide Education and Outreach Initiative funding into separate competitions for each of the separate types of programs (i.e., national, regional and/or local, community-based) eligible under this Initiative.
(c) National program applications, including those for Fair Housing Month funding, may be eligible to receive, as provided for in Notices of Funding Availability published in the
Federal Register,
a preference consisting of additional points if they:
(1) Demonstrate cooperation with real estate industry organizations; and/or
(2) Provide for the dissemination of educational information and technical assistance to support compliance with the housing adaptability and accessibility guidelines contained in the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.
(d) Activities that are regional are activities that are implemented in adjoining States or two or more units of general local government within a state. Activities that are local are activities whose implementation is limited to a single unit of general local government, meaning a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. Activities that are community-based in scope are those which are primarily focused on a particular neighborhood area within a unit of general local government.
(e) Each non-governmental recipient of regional, local, or community-based funding for activities located within the jurisdiction of a State or local enforcement agency or agencies administering a substantially equivalent (under part 115 of this subchapter) fair housing law must consult with the agency or agencies to coordinate activities funded under FHIP.
§ 125.401
Private Enforcement Initiative.
(a) The Private Enforcement Initiative provides funding on a single-year or multi-year basis, to investigate violations and obtain enforcement of the rights granted under the Fair Housing Act or State or local laws that provide rights and remedies for discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to the rights and remedies provided in the Fair Housing Act. Multi-year funding may be contingent upon annual performance reviews and annual appropriations.
(b) Organizations that are eligible to receive assistance under the Private Enforcement Initiative are:
(1) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations.
(2) Fair housing enforcement organizations with at least 1 year of experience in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims. For the purpose of meeting this 1 year qualification period, it is not necessary that the activities were conducted simultaneously, as long as each activity was conducted for 1 year. It is also not necessary for the activities to have been conducted for a continuous year. An organization may aggregate its experience in each activity over the 2-year period preceding its application to meet this 1 year qualification period requirement.
§ 125.501
Fair Housing Organizations Initiative.
(a) The Fair Housing Organizations Initiative of the FHIP provides funding to develop or expand the ability of existing eligible organizations to provide fair housing enforcement, and to establish, on a single-year or multi-year basis contingent upon annual performance reviews and annual appropriations, new fair housing enforcement organizations.
(b)
Continued development of existing organizations
—(1)
Eligible applicants.
Eligible for funding under this component of the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative are:
(i) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations;
(ii) Fair housing enforcement organizations; and
(iii) Nonprofit groups organizing to build their capacity to provide fair housing enforcement.
(2)
Operating budget limitation.
(i) Funding under this component of the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative may not be used to provide more than 50 percent of the operating budget of a recipient organization for any one year.
(ii) For purposes of the limitation in this paragraph,
operating budget
means the applicant's total planned budget expenditures from all sources, including the value of in-kind and monetary contributions, in the year for which funding is sought.
(c)
Establishing new organizations
—(1)
Eligible applicants.
Eligible for funding under this component of the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative are:
(i) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations;
(ii) Fair housing enforcement organizations; and
(iii) Organizations with at least three years of experience in complaint intake, complaint investigation, and enforcement of meritorious claims involving the use of testing evidence.
(2)
Targeted areas.
FHIP Notices of Funding Availability may identify target areas of the country that may receive priority for funding under this component of the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. An applicant may also seek funding to establish a new organization in a locality not identified as a target area, but in such a case, the applicant must submit sufficient evidence to establish the proposed area as being currently underserved by fair housing enforcement organizations or as containing large concentrations of protected classes.
Pt. 146

# PART 146—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN HUD PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
146.1
Purpose of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
146.3
Purpose of HUD's age discrimination regulation.
146.5
Applicability of part.
146.7
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Standards for Determining Age Discrimination
146.11
Scope of subpart.
146.13
Rules against age discrimination.

# Subpart C—Duties of HUD Recipients
146.21
General responsibilities.
146.23
Notice of subrecipients.
146.25
Assurance of compliance and recipient assessment of age distinctions.
146.27
Information requirements.

# Subpart D—Investigation, Settlement, and Enforcement Procedures
146.31
Compliance reviews.
146.33
Complaints.
146.35
Mediation.
146.37
Investigation.
146.39
Enforcement procedures.
146.41
Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.
146.43
Hearings, decisions, post-termination proceedings.
146.45
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
146.47
Remedial and affirmative action by recipients.
146.49
Alternate funds disbursal procedure.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 6103.

# Source:
51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 146.1
Purpose of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (the Act) prohibits discrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance. The Act, however, permits federally assisted programs and activities and recipients of Federal funds to continue to use certain age distinctions and factors other than age which meet the requirements of the Act and this part.
§ 146.3
Purpose of HUD's age discrimination regulation.
The purpose of this part is to state HUD's policies and procedures under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, consistent with the government-wide age discrimination regulation contained at 45 CFR part 90.
§ 146.5
Applicability of part.
This part applies to each program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance provided by HUD.
§ 146.7
Definitions.
The terms
HUD
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Act
means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6101-07.
Action
means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.
Age
means how old a person is, or the number of elapsed years from the date of a person's birth.
Age distinction
means any action using age or an age-related term.
Age-related term
means a word or words which necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example,
children, adult, older persons,
but not
student
).
Federal financial assistance
means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which HUD provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:
(a) Funds;
(b) Service of Federal personnel; or
(c) Real or personal property or any interest in or use of property, including:
(1) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and
(2) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal government.
Recipient
means any State or its political subdivisions; any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivisions; any public or private agency; any Indian tribe or Alaskan Native Village, institution, organization, or other entity; or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but does not include the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.
Subrecipient
means any of the entities in the definition of
recipient
to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient set out in this part.
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
[51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 5206, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Standards for Determining Age Discrimination
§ 146.11
Scope of subpart.
This subpart contains the standards that HUD will use to determine whether an age distinction, or a factor other than age that may have a disproportionate effect on persons of different ages, is prohibited.
§ 146.13
Rules against age discrimination.
(a) The rules stated in this paragraph are limited by the exceptions contained in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(1)
General rule.
No person in the United States shall, on the basis of age, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(2)
Specific rules.
A recipient may not, in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, directly or through contracting, licensing, or other arrangements, use age distinctions or take any other actions that have the effect, on the basis of age, of:
(i) Excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under, a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance; or
(ii) Denying or limiting individuals in their opportunity to participate in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(3) The specific forms of age discrimination listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not necessarily constitute a complete list.
(b)
Exceptions for normal operation or statutory objective of any program or activity.
A recipient is permitted to take an action otherwise prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section if the action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity. An action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity, if:
(1) Age is used as a measure or approximation of one or more other characteristics; and
(2) The other characteristics must be measured or approximated in order for the normal operation of the program or activity to continue, or to achieve any statutory objective of the program or activity; and
(3) The other characteristics can be reasonably measured or approximated by the use of age; and
(4) The other characteristics are impractical to measure directly on an individual basis.
(c)
Exceptions for reasonable factors other than age.
A recipient is permitted to take action otherwise prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section if the action is based on a factor other than age, even though that action may have a disproportionate effect on persons of different ages. An action may be based on a factor other than age only if the factor bears a direct and substantial relationship to the normal operation of the program or activity or the achievement of a statutory objective.
(d)
Burden of proof.
The burden of proving that an age distinction or other action falls within an exception described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section is on the recipient of Federal financial assistance.
(e) For the purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c),
normal operation
means the operation of a program or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its statutory objectives.
Statutory objectives
means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal, State, or local statute adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if a recipient operating a program provides special benefits to the elderly or to children, such use of age distinctions shall be presumed to be necessary to the normal operation of the program.

# Subpart C—Duties of HUD Recipients
§ 146.21
General responsibilities.
Each recipient has primary responsibility to ensure that its programs and activities that receive Federal financial assistance from HUD comply with the provisions of the Act, the government-wide regulation, and this part, and shall take steps to eliminate violations of the Act. A recipient also has responsibility to maintain records, provide information, and to afford HUD access to its records to the extent HUD finds necessary to determine whether a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from HUD is in compliance with the Act and this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0030)
[51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 7408, Mar. 11, 1987]
§ 146.23
Notice of subrecipients.
Whenever a recipient passes Federal financial assistance from HUD to subrecipients, the recipient shall provide the subrecipient with written notice of its obligations under this part and the recipient will remain responsible for the subrecipient's compliance with respect to programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance from HUD.
§ 146.25
Assurance of compliance and recipient assessment of age distinctions.
(a) Each recipient of Federal financial assistance from HUD shall sign a written assurance as specified by HUD that it will comply with the Act and this part with respect to programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance from HUD.
(b) As part of a compliance review under § 146.31 or an investigation under § 146.37, HUD may require a recipient employing the equivalent of 15 or more employees to complete, in a manner specified by the Secretary or Secretary's designee, a written self-evaluation of any age distinction imposed in its program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from HUD, so that HUD may have to assess the recipient's compliance with the Act. Whenever an assessment indicates a violation of the Act or this part, the recipient shall take corrective action to remedy the violation.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0030)
[51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 7408, Mar. 11, 1987]
§ 146.27
Information requirements.
In order to make it possible for HUD to determine whether recipients are in compliance with the Act and this part, each recipient shall:
(a) Keep records in a form and containing information that HUD determines is necessary;
(b) Make information available to HUD upon request;
(c) Permit reasonable access by HUD to the books, records, accounts and other recipient facilities and sources of information.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0030)
[51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 7408, Mar. 11, 1987]

# Subpart D—Investigation, Settlement, and Enforcement Procedures
§ 146.31
Compliance reviews.
(a) HUD may conduct pre-award reviews to determine whether programs or activities submitted for HUD assistance are consistent with the age distinctions set forth at § 146.13(b).
(b) If a pre-award review indicates that the proposed programs or activities are not consistent with the age distinctions set forth at § 146.13(b), the application will be returned to the applicant for additional information or clarification or for correction consistent with this part.
(c) HUD may conduct compliance reviews of recipients that will enable it to investigate and correct violations of this part. HUD may conduct these reviews even in the absence of a complaint against a recipient. The review may be as comprehensive as necessary for HUD to determine whether a violation has occurred.
(d) If a compliance review indicates a violation, HUD will attempt to achieve voluntary compliance. If voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, HUD may begin enforcement procedures as provided in § 146.39.
§ 146.33
Complaints.
(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with HUD alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause, HUD may extend this time limit. The filing date for a complaint will be the date upon which the complaint is deemed sufficient to be processed.
(b) HUD shall facilitate the filing of complaints and shall take the following measures:
(1) Accept as a sufficient complaint any written legible statement which is signed by the complainant and which identifies the parties involved, the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, and describes generally the alleged prohibited action or practice;
(2) Freely permit a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint;
(3) Widely disseminate information regarding the obligations of recipients under the Act and this part;
(4) Notify the complainant and the recipient of their rights under the complaint process, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint process; and
(5) Notify the complainant and the recipient of their right to contact HUD for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.
(c) HUD will return to the complainant any complaint determined to be outside the coverage of this part, and shall state the reasons why it is outside the coverage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2529-0030)
[51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 7408, Mar. 11, 1987]
§ 146.35
Mediation.
(a) HUD shall refer to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a mediation agency designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, all complaints that:
(1) Fall within the coverage of this part, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly with an exception; and
(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.
(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informal judgment that an agreement is not possible. There should be at least one meeting by each party with the mediator during the mediation process. However, the recipient and the complainant need not meet with the mediator at the same time.
(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to HUD. HUD will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.
(d) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without the prior approval of the head of the mediation agency.
(e) HUD shall use the mediation process for a maximum of 60 days after receiving a complaint. Mediation ends if:
(1) 60 days elapse from the time HUD receives the complaint; or
(2) Before the end of the 60-day period, an agreement is reached; or
(3) Before the end of the 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.
This 60-day period may be extended by the mediator, with the concurrence of HUD, for not more than an additional 30 days if the mediator determines that it is likely that an agreement will be reached during such extended period.
§ 146.37
Investigation.
(a)
Investigation and settlement following mediation.
(1) HUD shall investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopened because of an alleged violation of a mediation agreement.
(2) In the investigation of complaints filed under this part, HUD will establish facts through such methods as discussion with the complainant and recipient and the review of documents in the possession of either party. HUD may also seek the assistance of any applicable State agency. Where possible, HUD will settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable to the parties.
(3) Settlements shall be in writing and signed by the parties and by an authorized HUD official.
(4) A settlement shall not affect the initiation or continuation of any other enforcement effort of HUD, including compliance reviews or investigation of other complaints involving the recipient.
(5) A settlement reached under this paragraph (a) of this section is an agreement to resolve an alleged violation of the Act to the satisfaction of the parties involved, and does not constitute a finding of discrimination against the recipient.
(b)
Failure of settlement.
If HUD cannot resolve the complaint through settlement, it may make a formal determination that the Act or this part has been violated and begin enforcement procedures, as provided in § 146.39. HUD shall inform the recipient and complainant in writing that the matter cannot be resolved through settlement.
§ 146.39
Enforcement procedures.
(a) HUD may enforce the Act this regulation by:
(1) Termination of a recipient's financial assistance from HUD under the program or activity involved, if the recipient has violated the Act or this part. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an Administrative Law Judge. If the financial assistance consists of a Community Development Block Grant, the requirements of section 109(b) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5309, must also be satisfied before the termination of financial assistance. Cases settled in mediation or before hearing will not involve termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from HUD.
(2) Any other means authorized by law, including, but not limited to:
(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or this part;
(ii) Use of any requirement of, or referral to, any Federal, State or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this part.
(b) Whenever the Secretary determines that a State or unit of general local government which is a recipient of Federal financial assistance under Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5301-5317, has failed to comply with requirements of the Age Discrimination Act or this part with respect to a program or activity funded in whole or in part with such assistance, he or she shall notify the Governor of such State or the chief executive officer of such unit of general local government of the noncompliance and shall request the Governor or chief executive officer to secure compliance. If within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 60 days, the Governor or chief executive officer fails or refuses to secure compliance, the Secretary is authorized to take the action specified in (a) of this section, exercise the powers and functions provided for in section 111(a) of the Housing and Community Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5311(a), or take such other action as may be provided by law.
(c) HUD shall limit any termination under § 146.35 to the particular recipient and particular program or activity HUD finds to be in violation of this part. HUD shall not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from HUD.
(d) HUD shall take no action under paragraph (a) of this section until:
(1) The Secretary has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act or this part and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be achieved.
(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Secretary has submitted a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the Federal program or activity involved. A report shall be filed whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)(1) The Secretary may defer the provision of new Federal financial assistance to a recipient when termination proceedings under this section are initiated.
(2) New financial assistance from HUD includes all assistance for which HUD requires an application, approval, or submissions under the Community Development Block Grant program including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New financial assistance from HUD does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation for formula awards or assistance approved before the beginning of a hearing under this section.
(3) HUD shall not impose a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under this section. HUD shall not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Secretary. HUD shall not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding that the recipient has violated that Act or this part.
§ 146.41
Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.
A recipient may not engage in acts of intimidation or retaliation against any person who:
(a) Attempts to assert a right protected by this part; or
(b) Cooperates in any mediation, investigation, hearing, or other part of HUD's investigation, settlement, and enforcement process.
§ 146.43
Hearings, decisions, post-termination proceedings.
The provisions of 24 CFR part 180 apply to HUD enforcement of this part.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996]
§ 146.45
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
(a) A complainant may file a civil action following the exhaustion of administrative remedies under the Act. Administrative remedies are exhausted if:
(1) 180 days have elapsed since the complainant filed the complaint and HUD had made no finding with regard to the complaint; or
(2) HUD issues any finding in favor of the recipient.
(b) If HUD fails to make a finding within 180 days or issues a finding in favor of the recipient, HUD shall:
(1) Promptly advise the complainant of this fact;
(2) Advise the complainant of his or her right to bring a civil action for injunctive relief; and
(3) Inform the complainant:
(i) That he or she may bring a civil action only in a United States District Court for the district in which the recipient is located or transacts business;
(ii) That a complainant prevailing in a civil action has the right to be awarded the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees, but that the complainant must demand these costs in the complaint;
(iii) That before commencing the action, the complainant must give 30 days' notice by registered mail to the Secretary of HUD, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Attorney General of the United States, and the recipient;
(iv) That the notice must state: the alleged violation of the Act, the relief requested, the court in which the complainant is bringing the action, and whether or not attorney's fees are demanded in the event the complainant prevails; and
(v) That the complainant may not bring an action if the same alleged violation of the Act by the same recipient is the subject of a pending action in any court of the United States.
§ 146.47
Remedial and affirmative action by recipients.
(a) Where the Secretary finds that a recipient has unlawfully discriminated on the basis of age, the recipient shall take any action that the Secretary may require to overcome the effects of the discrimination. If another recipient exercises control over a subrecipient that has unlawfully discriminated, the Secretary may require both recipients to take remedial action.
(b) Even in the absence of a finding of discrimination, a recipient may take affirmative action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in the recipient's program or activity on the basis of age.
(c) If a recipient operating a program which serves the elderly or children in addition to persons of other ages provides special benefits to the elderly or children, the provision of those benefits shall be presumed to be voluntary affirmative action, provided that it does not have the effect of excluding otherwise eligible persons from participation in the program.
§ 146.49
Alternate funds disbursal procedure.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph and to the extent authorized by law, the Secretary may redisburse funds withheld or terminated under this part directly to an alternate recipient, including any public or non-profit private organization or agency, State or political subdivision of the State. Under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5301, funds withheld because of a reduction or withdrawal of a recipient's Community Development Block Grant must be reallocated in the succeeding fiscal year, in accordance with the applicable regulations governing that program.
(b) The Secretary shall require the alternate recipient to demonstrate:
(1) The ability to comply with the regulations; and
(2) The ability to achieve the goals of the Federal statute authorizing the program or activity.
Pt. 180

# PART 180—CONSOLIDATED HUD HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
180.100
Definitions.
180.105
Scope of rules.

# Subpart B—Administrative Law Judge
180.200
Designation.
180.205
Authority.
180.210
Withdrawal or disqualification of ALJ.
180.215
Ex parte communications.
180.220
Separation of functions.

# Subpart C—Parties
180.300
Rights of parties.
180.305
Representation.
180.310
Parties.
180.315
Standards of conduct.

# Subpart D—Proceedings Prior to Hearing
180.400
Service and filing.
180.405
Time computations.
180.410
Charges under the Fair Housing Act.
180.415
Notice of proposed adverse action regarding Federal financial assistance in non-Fair Housing Act matters.
180.420
Answer.
180.425
Amendments to pleadings.
180.430
Motions.
180.435
Prehearing statements.
180.440
Prehearing conferences.
180.445
Settlement negotiations before a settlement judge.
180.450
Resolution of charge or notice of proposed adverse action.

# Subpart E—Discovery
180.500
Discovery.
180.505
Supplementation of responses.
180.510
Interrogatories.
180.515
Depositions.
180.520
Use of deposition at hearings.
180.525
Requests for production of documents or things for inspection or other purposes, including physical and mental examinations.
180.530
Requests for admissions.
180.535
Protective orders.
180.540
Motion to compel discovery.
180.545
Subpoenas.

# Subpart F—Procedures at Hearing
180.600
Date and place of hearing.
180.605
Conduct of hearings.
180.610
Waiver of right to appear.
180.615
Failure of party to appear.
180.620
Evidence.
180.625
Record of hearing.
180.630
Stipulations.
180.635
Written testimony.
180.640
In camera and protective orders.
180.645
Exhibits.
180.650
Public document items.
180.655
Witnesses.
180.660
Closing of record.
180.665
Arguments and briefs.
180.670
Initial decision of ALJ.
180.671
Assessing civil penalties for Fair Housing Act cases.
180.675
Petitions for review.
180.680
Final decisions.

# Subpart G—Post-Final Decision in Fair Housing Cases
180.700
Action upon issuance of a final decision in Fair Housing Act cases.
180.705
Attorney's fees and costs.
180.710
Judicial review of final decision.
180.715
Enforcement of final decision.

# Subpart H—Post-Final Decision in Non-Fair Housing Act Matters
180.800
Post-termination proceedings.
180.805
Judicial review of final decision.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 1 note; 29 U.S.C. 794; 42 U.S.C. 2000d-1, 3535(d), 3601-3619, 5301-5320, and 6103.

# Source:
61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 180.100
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a) The terms
ALJ, Department, Fair Housing Act, General Counsel,
and
HUD
are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A.
(b) The terms
Aggrieved Person, Assistant Secretary, Attorney General, Discriminatory Housing Practice, Person,
and
State
are defined in 24 CFR part 103, subpart A.
(c) Other terms used in this part are defined as follows:
Agency
has the same meaning as
HUD.
Applicant
and
Application
have the meanings provided in 24 CFR 1.2 or 24 CFR 8.3, as applicable.
Charge
means the statement of facts issued under 24 CFR 103.405 upon which HUD has found reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur.
Complaint
means a complaint filed under the statutes covered by this part.
Complainant
means the person (including the Assistant Secretary) who filed a complaint under the statutes covered by this part.
Docket Clerk
is the docket clerk for HUD's Office of Hearings and Appeals, 451 7th Street, SW., Room B-133, Washington, DC 20410. The telephone number is 202-254-0000 and the facsimile number is 202-619-7304.
Fair Housing Act matters
refers to proceedings under this part pursuant to the Fair Housing Act and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 100 and 103.
Federal financial assistance
has the meaning provided in 24 CFR 1.2, 6.3, 8.3, or 146.7, as applicable.
Hearing
means a trial-type proceeding that involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, and briefs and oral arguments on the evidence and applicable law.
Intervenor
is a person entitled by law or permitted by the ALJ to participate as a party.
Non-Fair Housing Act matters
refers to proceedings under this part pursuant to:
(1) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1;
(2) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 794) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8;
(3) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6103) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146; or
(4) Section 109 of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 5301-5321) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 6.
Notice of Proposed Adverse Action
is the statement of facts issued pursuant to a non-Fair Housing Act matter upon which HUD has found reason to terminate or refuse to grant or continue Federal financial assistance.
Party
is a person who has full participation rights in a proceeding under this part.
Prevailing party
has the same meaning as the term has in section 722 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (42 U.S.C. 1988).
Recipient
has the meaning provided in 24 CFR 1.2, 6.3, 8.3, or 146.7, as applicable.
Respondent
means the person accused of violating one of the statutes covered by this part, including a recipient.
Secretary
means the Secretary of HUD, or to the extent of any delegation of authority by the Secretary to act under any of the statutory authorities listed in § 180.105(a), any other HUD official to whom the Secretary may hereafter delegate such authority.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3801, Jan. 25, 1999; 72 FR 53879, Sept. 20, 2007; 74 FR 4635, Jan. 26, 2009]
§ 180.105
Scope of rules.
(a) This part contains the rules of practice and procedure applicable to administrative proceedings before an ALJ under the following authorities:
(1) The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 100 and 103, where no election to proceed in federal district court has been made;
(2) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1), and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1;
(3) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794), and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8;
(4) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6103), and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146; and
(5) Section 109 of title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301-5321) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 6.
(b) In the absence of a specific provision, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure shall serve as a general guide.
(c) Hearings under this part shall be conducted as expeditiously and inexpensively as possible, consistent with the needs and rights of the parties to
obtain a fair hearing and a complete record.
(d) Except to the extent that a waiver would otherwise be contrary to law, the ALJ may, after adequate notice to all interested persons, modify or waive any of the rules in this part upon a determination that no person will be prejudiced and that the ends of justice will be served.
(e) All pleadings, correspondence, exhibits, transcripts of testimony, exceptions, briefs, decisions, and other documents filed in any proceeding may be inspected in the Docket Clerk's office during regular business hours.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3801, Jan. 25, 1999; 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009]

# Subpart B—Administrative Law Judge
§ 180.200
Designation.
Proceedings under this part shall be presided over by an ALJ appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008]
§ 180.205
Authority.
The ALJ shall have all powers necessary to conduct fair, expeditious and impartial hearings, including the power to:
(a) Administer oaths and affirmations and examine witnesses;
(b) Rule on offers of proof and receive evidence;
(c) Take depositions or have depositions taken when the ends of justice would be served;
(d) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of persons at the hearing;
(e) Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties;
(f) Rule on motions, procedural requests, and similar matters;
(g) Make and issue initial decisions;
(h) Impose appropriate sanctions against any person failing to obey an order, refusing to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct, or refusing to act in good faith;
(i) Issue subpoenas if authorized by law; and
(j) Exercise any other powers necessary and appropriate for the purpose and conduct of the proceeding as authorized by the rules in this part or in conformance with statute, including 5 U.S.C. 551-59.
§ 180.210
Withdrawal or disqualification of ALJ.
(a)
Disqualification.
If an ALJ finds that there is a basis for his/her disqualification in a proceeding, the ALJ shall withdraw from the proceeding. Withdrawal is accomplished by entering a notice in the record and providing a copy of the notice to the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
(b)
Motion for recusal.
If a party believes that the presiding ALJ should be disqualified for any reason, the party may file a motion to recuse with the ALJ. The motion shall be supported by an affidavit setting forth the alleged grounds for disqualification. The ALJ shall rule on the motion, stating the grounds therefor.
(c)
Redesignation of ALJ.
If an ALJ is disqualified, another ALJ shall be designated to preside over further proceedings.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 180.215
Ex parte communications.
(a) An ex parte communication is any direct or indirect communication concerning the merits of a pending proceeding, made by a party in the absence of any other party, to the presiding ALJ, and which was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties. Ex parte communications do not include communications made for the sole purpose of scheduling hearings, requesting extensions of time, or requesting information on the status of cases.
(b) Ex parte communications are prohibited.
(c) If the ALJ receives an ex parte communication that the ALJ knows or has reason to believe is prohibited, the ALJ shall promptly place the communication, or a written statement of the substance of the communication, in the record and shall furnish copies to all parties. Unauthorized communications shall not be taken into consideration in deciding any matter in issue. Any
party making a prohibited ex parte communication may be subject to sanctions including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceeding and an adverse ruling on the issue that is the subject of the prohibited communication.
§ 180.220
Separation of functions.
No officer, employee, or agent of the Federal Government engaged in the performance of investigative, conciliatory, or prosecutorial functions in connection with the proceeding shall, in that proceeding or any factually related proceeding under this part, participate or advise in the decision of the ALJ, except as a witness or counsel during the proceedings or in its appellate review.

# Subpart C—Parties
§ 180.300
Rights of parties.
Each party may appear in person, be represented by counsel, examine or cross-examine witnesses, introduce documentary or other relevant evidence into the record and, in Fair Housing Act matters, request the issuance of subpoenas.
§ 180.305
Representation.
(a) HUD is represented by the General Counsel.
(b) Any party may appear on his/her/its own behalf or by an attorney. Each party or attorney shall file a notice of appearance. The notice must identify the matter before the ALJ, the party on whose behalf the appearance is made, and the mailing address and telephone number of the person appearing. Similar notice shall also be given for any withdrawal of appearance.
(c) An attorney must be admitted to practice before a Federal Court or the highest court in any State. The attorney's representation that he/she is in good standing before any of these courts is sufficient evidence of the attorney's qualifications under this section, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ.
§ 180.310
Parties.
(a) Parties to proceedings under this part are HUD, the respondent(s), and any intervenors. Respondents include persons named as such in a charge issued under 24 CFR part 103 and Recipients/applicants named as respondents in hearing notices issued under 24 CFR parts 1, 6, 8 or 146 and notices of proposed adverse action under this part.
(b) An aggrieved person is not a party but may file a motion to intervene. Requests for intervention shall be filed within 50 days after the filing of the charge; however, the ALJ may allow intervention beyond that time. An intervenor's right to participate as a party may be restricted by order of the ALJ pursuant to statute, the rules in this part or other applicable law. Intervention shall be permitted if the person requesting intervention is
(1) The aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge is issued; or
(2) An aggrieved person who claims an interest in the property or transaction that is the subject of the charge and the disposition of the charge may, as a practical matter, impair or impede this person's ability to protect that interest, unless the aggrieved person is adequately represented by the existing parties.
(c) A complainant in a non-Fair Housing Act matter is not a party but may file a motion to become an amicus curiae.
(d) Any person may file a petition to participate in a proceeding under this part as an amicus curiae. An amicus curiae is not a party to the proceeding and may not introduce evidence at the hearing.
(1) A petition to participate as amicus curiae shall be filed before the commencement of the hearing, unless the petitioner shows good cause for filing the petition later. The petition may be granted if the ALJ finds that the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings, and that such participation will not unduly delay the outcome and may contribute materially to the proper disposition thereof.
(2) The amicus curiae may submit briefs within time limits set by the ALJ or by the Secretary in the event of an appeal to the Secretary.
(3) When all parties have completed their initial examination of a witness, the amicus curiae may request the ALJ to propound specific questions to the
witness. Any such request may be granted if the ALJ believes the proposed additional testimony may assist materially in elucidating factual matters at issue between the parties and will not expand the issues.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3801, Jan. 25, 1999]
§ 180.315
Standards of conduct.
(a) All persons appearing in proceedings under this part shall act with integrity and in an ethical manner.
(b) The ALJ may exclude parties or their representatives for refusal to comply with directions, continued use of dilatory tactics, refusal to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct, failure to act in good faith, or violations of the prohibitions against ex parte communications. An attorney who is suspended or barred from participation may appeal to another ALJ designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The proceeding will not be delayed or suspended pending disposition on the appeal, except that the ALJ shall suspend the proceeding for a reasonable time to enable the party to obtain another attorney.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]

# Subpart D—Proceedings Prior to Hearing
§ 180.400
Service and filing.
(a)
Service
—(1)
Service by the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
The Office of Hearings and Appeals shall serve all notices, orders, decisions and other such documents by mail to each party and amicus curiae at the last known address.
(2)
Service by others.
A copy of each filed document shall be served on each party and each amicus curiae. Service shall be made upon counsel if a party is represented by counsel. Service on counsel shall constitute service on the party. Service may be made to the last known address by first-class mail or other more expeditious means, such as:
(i) Hand delivery to the person to be served or a person of suitable age and discretion at the place of business, residence, or usual place of abode of the person to be served;
(ii) Overnight delivery; or
(iii) Facsimile transmission or electronic means. The ALJ may place appropriate limits on service by facsimile transmission or electronic means.
(3)
Certificate of service.
Every document served shall be accompanied by a certificate of service containing a statement as to the date of service, the method of service, the parties served and the address at which they were served, which is signed and dated by the person making service.
(b)
Filing
—(1)
Method.
All documents shall be filed with the Docket Clerk. Filing may be by first class mail, delivery, facsimile transmission, or electronic means; however, the ALJ may place appropriate limits on filing by facsimile transmission or electronic means.
(2)
Form.
Every pleading, motion, brief, or other document shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the proceeding, the docket number assigned by the Office of Hearings and Appeals, and the designation of the type of document (e.g., charge, motion).
(3)
Signature.
Every document filed by a party shall be signed by the party or the party's attorney and must include the signer's address and telephone number. The signature constitutes a certification that: the signer has read the document; to the best of the signer's knowledge, information and belief, the statements made therein are true; and the document is not interposed for delay.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 180.405
Time computations.
(a) In computing time under this part, the time period begins the day following the act, event, or default and includes the last day of the period, unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which case the time period includes the next business day.
(b)
Modification of time periods.
Except for time periods required by statute, the ALJ may enlarge or reduce any time period required under this part
where necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest or the rights of the parties. Requests for extension of time should set forth the reasons for the request.
(c)
Entry of orders.
In computing any time period involving the date of the ALJ's issuance of an order or decision, the date of issuance is the date of service by the Docket Clerk.
(d)
Computation of time for delivery by mail.
When documents are filed by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed time period for filing any responsive pleading. Documents are not filed until received by the Docket Clerk.
(e)
Untimely filing.
The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion or other document that is not filed in a timely fashion.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009]
§ 180.410
Charges under the Fair Housing Act.
(a)
Filing and service.
Within 3 days after the issuance of a charge, the General Counsel shall file the charge with the Docket Clerk and serve copies (with the additional information required under paragraph (b) of this section) on all respondents and aggrieved persons.
(b)
Contents.
The charge shall consist of a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which reasonable cause has been found to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur. A notification shall be served with the charge containing the following information:
(1) Any complainant, respondent, or aggrieved person may elect to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under 42 U.S.C. 3612(o), in lieu of an administrative proceeding under this part.
(2) Such election must be made not later than 20 days after receipt of service of the charge by serving written notice of such on the Docket Clerk, each respondent, each aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was issued, the Assistant Secretary, and the General Counsel.
(3) If no person timely elects to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under 42 U.S.C. 3612(o), an administrative proceeding will be conducted under this part.
(4) If an administrative hearing is conducted:
(i) The hearing will be held at a date and place specified.
(ii) The respondent will have an opportunity to file an answer to the charge within 30 days after service of the charge.
(iii) The aggrieved person may participate as a party to the administrative proceeding by filing a request for intervention within 50 days after service of the charge.
(iv) All discovery must be concluded 15 days before the date set for hearing.
(v) The rules in this part will govern the proceeding.
(5) If, at any time following service of the charge on the respondent, the respondent intends to enter into a contract, sale, encumbrance, or lease with any person regarding the property that is the subject of the charge, the respondent must provide a copy of the charge to such person before the respondent and the person enter into the contract, sale, encumbrance or lease.
(c)
Election of judicial determination.
If the complainant, the respondent, or the aggrieved person on whose behalf a complaint was filed makes a timely election to have the claims asserted in the charge decided in a civil action under 42 U.S.C. 3612(o), the administrative proceeding shall be dismissed.
(d)
Effect of a civil action on administrative proceeding.
An ALJ may not continue an administrative proceeding under the Fair Housing Act after the beginning of the trial of a civil action commenced by the aggrieved person under an act of Congress or a State law seeking relief with respect to that discriminatory housing practice. If such a trial is commenced, the ALJ shall dismiss the administrative proceeding. The commencement and maintenance of a civil action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief under 42 U.S.C. 3610(e) or 42 U.S.C. 3613 does not affect administrative proceedings under this part.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008; 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009]
§ 180.415
Notice of proposed adverse action regarding Federal financial assistance in non-Fair Housing Act matters.
(a)
Filing and service.
Within 10 days after a recipient/applicant has requested a hearing, as provided for in 24 CFR parts 1, 6, 8, or 146, the General Counsel shall file a notice of proposed adverse action with the Docket Clerk and serve copies (with the additional information required under paragraph (b) of this section) on all respondents and complainants.
(b)
Contents.
The notice of proposed adverse action shall consist of a short and plain written statement of the facts and legal authority upon which the proposed action is based. A notification shall be served with the notice containing the following information:
(1) That an administrative hearing will be held at a date and place specified.
(2) That the respondent will have an opportunity to file an answer to the notice of adverse action within 30 days after its service.
(3) That the complainant may participate as an amicus curiae by filing a timely request to do so.
(4) That discovery must be concluded by a date specified.
(5) That the rules specified in this part shall govern the proceeding.
(c)
Consolidation.
The ALJ may provide for non-Fair Housing Act proceedings at HUD to be joined or consolidated for hearing with proceedings in other Federal departments or agencies, by agreement with such other departments or agencies. All parties to any proceeding consolidated subsequent to service of the notice of proposed adverse action shall be promptly served with notice of such consolidation.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 3802, Jan. 25, 1999; 74 FR 4636, Jan. 26, 2009]
§ 180.420
Answer.
(a) Within 30 days after service of the charge or notice of proposed adverse action, a respondent may file an answer. The answer shall include:
(1) A statement that the respondent admits, denies, or does not have and is unable to obtain sufficient information to admit or deny, each allegation made. A statement of lack of information shall have the effect of a denial. Any allegation that is not denied shall be deemed to be admitted.
(2) A statement of each affirmative defense and a statement of facts supporting each affirmative defense.
(b) Failure to file an answer within the 30-day period following service of the charge or notice of proposed adverse action shall be deemed an admission of all matters of fact recited therein and may result in the entry of a default decision.
§ 180.425
Amendments to pleadings.
(a)
By right.
HUD may amend the charge or notice of proposed adverse action once as a matter of right prior to the filing of the answer.
(b)
By leave.
Upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties, the ALJ may allow amendments to pleadings upon a motion of a party.
(c)
Conformance to the evidence.
When issues not raised by the pleadings are reasonably within the scope of the original charge or notice of proposed adverse action and have been tried by the express or implied consent of the parties, the issues shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings, and amendments may be made as necessary to make the pleading conform to evidence.
(d)
Supplemental pleadings.
The ALJ may, upon reasonable notice, permit supplemental pleadings concerning transactions, occurrences or events that have happened or been discovered since the date of the pleadings and which are relevant to any of the issues involved.
§ 180.430
Motions.
(a)
Motions.
Any application for an order or other request shall be made by a motion which, unless made during an appearance before the ALJ, shall be in writing and shall state the specific relief requested and the basis therefor. Motions made during an appearance before the ALJ shall be stated orally and made a part of the transcript. All parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to respond to written or oral motions or requests.
(b)
Responses to written motions.
Within seven calendar days after a written motion is served, any party to the proceeding may file a response in support of, or in opposition to, the motion. Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, no further responsive documents may be filed. Failure to file a response within the response period constitutes a waiver of any objection to the granting of the motion.
(c)
Oral argument.
The ALJ may order oral argument on any motion.
§ 180.435
Prehearing statements.
(a) Before the commencement of the hearing, the ALJ may direct the parties to file prehearing statements.
(b) The prehearing statement must state the name of the party presenting the statement and, unless otherwise directed by the ALJ, briefly set forth the following:
(1) The issues involved in the proceeding;
(2) The facts stipulated by the parties and a statement that the parties have made a good faith effort to stipulate to the greatest extent possible;
(3) The facts in dispute;
(4) The witnesses (together with a summary of the testimony expected) and exhibits to be presented at the hearing;
(5) A brief statement of applicable law;
(6) Conclusions to be drawn;
(7) Estimated time required for presentation of the party's case; and
(8) Such other information as may assist in the disposition of the proceeding.
§ 180.440
Prehearing conferences.
(a) Before the commencement of or during the course of the hearing, the ALJ may direct the parties to participate in a conference to expedite the hearing. Failure to attend a conference may constitute a waiver of all objections to the agreements reached at the conference and to any order with respect thereto.
(b) During the conference, the ALJ may dispose of any procedural matters on which he/she is authorized to rule. At the conference, the following matters may be considered:
(1) Pre-trial motions;
(2) Identification, simplification and clarification of the issues;
(3) Necessary amendments to the pleadings;
(4) Stipulations of fact and of the authenticity, accuracy, and admissibility of documents;
(5) Limitations on the number of witnesses;
(6) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of issues;
(7) The exchange of proposed exhibits and witness lists;
(8) Matters of which official notice will be requested;
(9) Scheduling actions discussed at the conference; and
(10) Such other matters as may assist in the disposition of the proceeding.
(c) Conferences may be conducted by telephone or in person, but generally shall be conducted by telephone, unless the ALJ determines that this method is inappropriate. The ALJ shall give reasonable notice of the time, place and manner of the conference.
(d)
Record of conference.
Unless otherwise directed by the ALJ, the conference will not be stenographically recorded. The ALJ will reduce the actions taken at the conference to a written order or, if the conference takes place less than seven days before the beginning of the hearing, may make a statement at the hearing and on the record summarizing the actions taken at the conference.
§ 180.445
Settlement negotiations before a settlement judge.
(a)
Appointment of settlement judge.
The ALJ, upon the motion of a party or upon his or her own motion, may request the Chief Administrative Law Judge to appoint another ALJ to conduct settlement negotiations. The order shall direct the settlement judge to report to the presiding ALJ within specified time periods.
(b)
Duties of settlement judge.
(1) The settlement judge shall convene and preside over conferences and settlement negotiations between the parties and assess the practicalities of a potential settlement.
(2) The settlement judge shall report to the presiding ALJ describing the status of the settlement negotiations, evaluating settlement prospects, and
recommending the termination or continuation of the settlement negotiations.
(c)
Termination of settlement negotiations.
Settlement negotiations shall terminate upon the order of the presiding ALJ issued after consultation with the settlement judge. The conduct of settlement negotiations shall not unduly delay the commencement of the hearing.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 180.450
Resolution of charge or notice of proposed adverse action.
At any time before a final decision is issued, the parties may submit to the ALJ an agreement resolving the charge or notice of proposed adverse action. A charge under the Fair Housing Act can only be resolved with the agreement of the aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was issued. If the agreement is in the public interest, the ALJ shall accept it by issuing an initial decision and consent order based on the agreement.

# Subpart E—Discovery
§ 180.500
Discovery.
(a)
In general.
This subpart governs discovery in aid of administrative proceedings under this part. Discovery in Fair Housing Act matters shall be completed 15 days before the date scheduled for hearing or at such time as the ALJ shall direct. Discovery in non-Fair Housing Act matters shall be completed as the ALJ directs.
(b)
Scope.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures. Discovery shall be conducted as expeditiously and inexpensively as possible, consistent with the needs of all parties to obtain relevant evidence. Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, the parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of documents or persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter. It is not grounds for objection that information sought will be inadmissible if the information appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(c)
Methods.
Parties may obtain discovery by one or more of the following methods:
(1) Deposition upon oral examination or written questions.
(2) Written interrogatories.
(3) Requests for the production of documents or other evidence for inspection and other purposes.
(4) Requests for admissions.
(5) Upon motion of a party, the presiding ALJ may issue an order requiring a physical or mental examination of a party or of a person in the custody or under the legal control of a party.
(d)
Frequency and sequence.
Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ or restricted by this subpart, the frequency or sequence of these methods is not limited.
(e)
Non-intervening aggrieved person.
For purposes of obtaining discovery from a non-intervening aggrieved person, the term
party
as used in this subpart includes the aggrieved person.
§ 180.505
Supplementation of responses.
A party is under a duty, in a timely fashion, to:
(a) Supplement a response with respect to any question directly addressed to:
(1) The identity and location of persons having knowledge of discoverable matters; and
(2) The identity of each person expected to be called as an expert witness, the subject matter on which the expert witness is expected to testify, and the substance of the testimony.
(b) Amend a response if the party later obtains information upon the basis of which:
(1) The party knows the response was incorrect when made, or
(2) The party knows the response, though correct when made, is no longer true, and the circumstances are such that a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(c) Supplement other responses, as imposed by order of the ALJ or by agreement of the parties.
§ 180.510
Interrogatories.
(a) Any party may serve on any other party written interrogatories to be answered by the party served. If the party served is a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency, the interrogatories may be answered by any authorized officer or agent who shall furnish such information as may be available to the party. A party may serve not more than 30 written interrogatories on another party without an order of the ALJ.
(b) Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully in writing under oath or affirmation, unless it is objected to, in which event, the reasons for the objection shall be stated in lieu of an answer. The answers shall be signed by the person making them, and the objections may be signed by the attorney or other representative making them. The answers and objections shall be served within 15 days after service of the interrogatories.
(c) It is a sufficient answer to an interrogatory to specify the records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained if:
(1) The answer to the interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the records of the party on whom the interrogatory has been served or from an examination, audit or inspection of such records, or from a compilation, abstract or summary based thereon, and
(2) The burden of deriving or ascertaining the answer is substantially the same for the party serving the interrogatory as the party served. The party serving the interrogatory shall be afforded reasonable opportunity to examine, audit or inspect such records and to make copies, compilations, abstracts or summaries. The specification shall include sufficient detail to permit the interrogating party to locate and identify the individual records from which the answer may be ascertained.
(d) Objections to the form of written interrogatories are waived unless served in writing upon the party propounding the interrogatories.
§ 180.515
Depositions.
(a)
Notice.
Upon written notice to the witness and to all other parties, a party may take the testimony of a witness by deposition and may request the production of specified documents or materials by the witness at the deposition. Notice of the taking of a deposition shall be given not less than five days before the deposition is scheduled. The notice shall state:
(1) The purpose and general scope of the deposition;
(2) The time and place of the deposition;
(3) The name and address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken;
(4) The name and address of the witness; and
(5) A specification of the documents and materials that the witness is requested to produce.
(b)
Deposition of an organization.
If the deposition of a public or private corporation, partnership, association, or governmental agency is sought, the organization so named shall designate one or more officers, directors or agents to testify on its behalf, and may set forth, for each person designated, the matters on which he/she will testify.
(c)
Procedure at deposition.
Depositions may be taken before any disinterested person having power to administer oaths in the location where the deposition is to be taken. Each deponent shall be placed under oath or affirmation, and the other parties will have the right to cross-examine. The deponent may have counsel present during the deposition. The questions propounded and all answers and objections thereto shall be reduced to writing, read by or to and subscribed by the witness, and certified by the person before whom the deposition was taken. Non-intervening aggrieved persons may be present at depositions in which they are not the deponent.
(d)
Motion to terminate or limit examination.
During the taking of a deposition, a party or the witness may request suspension of the deposition on the grounds of bad faith in the conduct of the examination, oppression of the witness or party, or improper questioning or conduct. Upon request for suspension, the deposition will be adjourned. The objecting party or witness must immediately move the ALJ for a
ruling on the objection. The ALJ may then limit the scope or manner of taking the deposition.
(e)
Waiver of deposing officer's disqualification.
Objection to taking a deposition because of the disqualification of the officer before whom it is taken is waived unless made before the taking of the deposition begins or as soon thereafter as the disqualification becomes known or could have been discovered with reasonable diligence.
(f)
Payment of costs of deposition.
The party requesting the deposition shall bear all costs of the deposition.
§ 180.520
Use of deposition at hearings.
(a)
In general.
At the hearing, any part or all of a deposition, so far as admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence, may be used against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had due notice of the taking of the deposition, in accordance with the following provisions:
(1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of the deponent as a witness.
(2) The deposition of an expert witness may be used by any party for any purpose, unless the ALJ rules that such use is unfair or in violation of due process.
(3) The deposition of a party, or of anyone who at the time of the taking of the deposition was an officer, director, or duly authorized agent of a public or private corporation, partnership, or association that is a party, may be used by any other party for any purpose.
(4) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a party, may be used by any party for any purpose if the ALJ finds:
(i) That the witness is dead;
(ii) That the witness is out of the United States or more than 100 miles from the place of hearing, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the deposition;
(iii) That the witness is unable to attend to testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, or imprisonment;
(iv) That the party offering the deposition has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or
(v) Whenever exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open hearing, to allow the deposition to be used.
(5) If a part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, any other party may require the party to introduce all of the deposition that is relevant to the part introduced. Any party may introduce any other part of the deposition.
(6) Substitution of parties does not affect the right to use depositions previously taken. If a proceeding has been dismissed and another proceeding involving the same subject matter is later brought between the same parties or their representatives or successors in interest, all depositions lawfully taken in the former proceeding may be used in the latter proceeding.
(b)
Objections to admissibility.
Except as provided in this paragraph, objection may be made at the hearing to receiving in evidence any deposition or part of a deposition for any reason that would require the exclusion of the evidence if the witness were present and testifying.
(1) Objections to the competency of a witness or to the competency, relevancy, or materiality of testimony are not waived by failure to make them before or during the taking of the deposition, unless the basis of the objection is one which might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time.
(2) Errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of parties, and errors of any kind which might be obviated, removed or cured if promptly presented, are waived unless reasonable objection is made at the taking of the deposition.
§ 180.525
Requests for production of documents or things for inspection or other purposes, including physical and mental examinations.
(a) Any party may serve on any other party a request to:
(1) Produce and/or permit the party, or a person acting on the party's behalf, to inspect and copy any designated documents, or to inspect and copy, test, or sample any tangible things that contain or may lead to relevant information and that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served.
(2) Permit entry upon designated land or other property in the possession or control of the party upon whom the request is served for the purpose of inspection and measuring, photographing, testing, or other purposes stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Each request shall set forth with reasonable particularity the items or categories to be inspected and shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner for making the inspection and performing the related acts.
(c) Within 15 days after service of the request, the party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response on the party submitting the request. The response shall state, with regard to each item or category, that inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless there are objections, in which case the reasons for the objection shall be stated.
(d) Upon motion of any party, when the mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of a party or of a person in the custody or under the legal control of a party, is in controversy, the presiding ALJ may order the party to submit to a physical or mental examination by a suitably licensed or certified examiner or to produce for examination the person in the party's custody or legal control. The order may be made only on motion for good cause shown and upon notice to the person to be examined and to all parties and shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, and scope of the examination and the person or persons by whom it is to be made. A report of the examiner shall be made in accordance with Rule 35(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
§ 180.530
Requests for admissions.
(a) Any party may serve on any other party a written request for the admission of the truth of any matters relevant to the adjudication set forth in the request that relate to statements or opinions of fact or of application of law to fact, including the genuineness and authenticity of any documents described in or attached to the request.
(b) Each matter for which an admission is requested is admitted unless, within 15 days after service of the request, or within such time as the ALJ allows, the party to whom the request is directed serves on the requesting party a sworn written answer which:
(1) Specifically denies, in whole or in part, the matter for which an admission is requested;
(2) Sets forth in detail why the party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter; or
(3) States an objection that the matter is privileged, irrelevant or otherwise improper in whole or in part.
(c) An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny, unless he/she/it states that he/she/it has made a reasonable inquiry and that the information known to, or readily obtainable by, him/her/it is insufficient to enable the party to admit or deny.
(d) The party requesting admissions may move for a determination of the sufficiency of the answers or objections. Unless the ALJ determines that an objection is justified, the ALJ shall order that an answer be served. If the ALJ determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this section, the ALJ may order either that the matter is admitted or that an amended answer be served.
(e) Any matter admitted under this section is conclusively established unless, upon the motion of a party, the ALJ permits the withdrawal or amendment of the admission. Any admission made under this section is made for the purposes of the pending proceeding only, is not an admission by the party for any other purpose, and may not be used against the party in any other proceeding.
§ 180.535
Protective orders.
(a) Upon motion of a party or a person from whom discovery is sought or in accordance with § 180.540(c), and for good cause shown, the ALJ may make appropriate orders to protect a party
or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense as a result of the requested discovery request. The order may direct that:
(1) The discovery may not be had;
(2) The discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including at a designated time and place;
(3) The discovery may be had by a method of discovery other than that selected by the party seeking discovery;
(4) Certain matters may not be the subject of discovery, or the scope of discovery may be limited to certain matters;
(5) Discovery may be conducted with no one present other than persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) A trade secret or other confidential research, development or commercial information may not be disclosed, or may be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(7) The party or other person from whom discovery is sought may file specified documents or information under seal to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
(b) The ALJ may permit a party or other person from whom discovery is sought, who is seeking a protective order, to make all or part of the showing of good cause in camera. If such a showing is made, upon motion of the party or other person from whom discovery is sought, an in camera record of the proceedings may be made. If the ALJ enters a protective order, any in camera record of such showing shall be sealed and preserved and made available to the ALJ or, in the event of appeal, to the Secretary or a court.
§ 180.540
Motion to compel discovery.
(a) If a deponent fails to answer a question propounded, or a party upon whom a discovery request has been made fails to respond adequately, objects to a request, or fails to produce documents or other inspection as requested, the discovering party may move the ALJ for an order compelling discovery in accordance with the request. The motion shall:
(1) State the nature of the request;
(2) Set forth the response or objection of the deponent or party upon whom the request was served;
(3) Present arguments supporting the motion; and
(4) Attach copies of all relevant discovery requests and responses.
(b) For the purposes of this section, an evasive or incomplete answer or response will be treated as a failure to answer or respond.
(c) In ruling on a motion under this section, the ALJ may enter an order compelling a response in accordance with the request, may issue sanctions under paragraph (d) of this section, or may enter a protective order under § 180.535.
(d)
Sanctions.
If a party fails to provide or permit discovery, the ALJ may take such action as is just, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Inferring that the admission, testimony, document, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party;
(2) Ordering that, for purposes of the adjudication, the matters regarding which the order was made or any other designated facts shall be taken to be established in accordance with the claim of the party obtaining the order;
(3) Prohibiting the party failing to comply with the order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, documents or other evidence withheld;
(4) Ordering that the party withholding discovery not introduce into evidence, or otherwise use in the hearing, information obtained in discovery;
(5) Permitting the requesting party to introduce secondary evidence concerning the information sought;
(6) Striking any appropriate part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such order; or
(7) Taking such other action as may be appropriate.
§ 180.545
Subpoenas.
(a) This section governs the issuance of subpoenas in administrative proceedings under the Fair Housing Act. Except for time periods stated in the rules in this section, to the extent that this section conflicts with procedures for the issuance of subpoenas in civil actions in the United States District
Court for the District in which the investigation of the discriminatory housing practice took place, the rules of the United States District Court apply.
(b)
Issuance of subpoena.
Upon the written request of a party, the presiding ALJ or other designated ALJ may issue a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness for the purpose of giving testimony at a deposition or hearing and requiring the production of relevant books, papers, documents or tangible things.
(c)
Time of request.
Requests for subpoenas in aid of discovery must be submitted in time to permit the conclusion of discovery 15 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. If a request for subpoenas of a witness for testimony at a hearing is submitted three days or less before the hearing, the subpoena shall be issued at the discretion of the presiding ALJ, or other designated ALJ as appropriate.
(d)
Service.
A subpoena may be served by any person who is not a party and is not less than 18 years of age. Service on a person shall be made by delivering a copy of the subpoena to the person and by tendering witness fees and mileage to that person. When the subpoena is issued on behalf of HUD, witness fees and mileage need not be tendered with the subpoena.
(e)
Amount of witness fees and mileage.
A witness summoned by a subpoena issued under this part is entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as a witness in proceedings in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena shall be paid by the party requesting the issuance of the subpoena, or where the ALJ determines that a party is unable to pay the fees, the fees shall be paid by HUD.
(f)
Motion to quash or limit subpoena.
Upon a motion by the person served with a subpoena or by a party, made within five days after service of the subpoena (but in any event not less than the time specified in the subpoena for compliance), the ALJ may:
(1) Quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for other good cause shown; or
(2) Condition denial of the motion upon the advancement, by the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, of the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed books, papers or documents. Where circumstances require, the ALJ may act upon such a motion at any time after a copy of the motion has been served upon the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.
(g)
Failure to comply with subpoena.
If a person fails to comply with a subpoena issued under this section, the party requesting the subpoena may refer the matter to the Attorney General for enforcement in appropriate proceedings under 42 U.S.C. 3614(c).
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 13723, Mar. 13, 2008]

# Subpart F—Procedures at Hearing
§ 180.600
Date and place of hearing.
(a)
For Fair Housing Act Cases
—(1)
Time.
The hearing shall commence not later than 120 days after the issuance of the charge, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the hearing cannot be commenced within this time period, the ALJ shall notify in writing all parties, aggrieved persons, amici, and the Assistant Secretary of the reasons for the delay.
(2)
Place.
The hearing will be conducted at a place in the vicinity in which the discriminatory housing practice is alleged to have occurred or to be about to occur.
(b)
For Non-Fair Housing Matters.
Hearings shall be held in Washington, DC, unless the ALJ determines that the convenience of the respondent or HUD requires that another place be selected.
(c) The ALJ may change the time, date or place of the hearing, or may temporarily adjourn or continue a hearing for good cause shown.
§ 180.605
Conduct of hearings.
The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551-559).
§ 180.610
Waiver of right to appear.
If all parties waive their right to appear before the ALJ, the ALJ need not conduct an oral hearing. Such waivers shall be in writing and filed with the ALJ. The ALJ shall make a record of
the pleadings and relevant written evidence submitted by the parties. These documents may constitute the evidence in the proceeding, and the decision may be based upon this evidence.
§ 180.615
Failure of party to appear.
A default decision may be entered against a party failing to appear at a hearing unless such party shows good cause for such failure.
§ 180.620
Evidence.
The Federal Rules of Evidence apply to the presentation of evidence in hearings under this part.
§ 180.625
Record of hearing.
(a) All oral hearings shall be recorded and transcribed by a reporter designated and supervised by the ALJ. The original transcript shall be a part of the record and shall constitute the sole official transcript. All exhibits introduced as evidence shall be incorporated into the record. The parties and the public may obtain transcripts from the official reporter at rates not to exceed the applicable rates fixed by the contract with the reporter.
(b) Corrections to the official transcript will be permitted upon motion of a party. Motions for correction must be submitted within five days after receipt of the transcript. Corrections of the official transcript will be permitted only where errors of substance are involved and upon the ALJ's approval.
§ 180.630
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate to any pertinent facts by oral agreement at the hearing or by written agreement at any time. Stipulations may be submitted into evidence at any time before the end of the hearing. Once received into evidence, a stipulation is binding on the parties.
§ 180.635
Written testimony.
The ALJ may accept and enter into the record direct testimony of witnesses made by verified written statement rather than by oral presentation at the hearing. Unless the ALJ fixes other time periods, affidavits shall be filed and served on the parties not later than 14 days prior to the hearing. Witnesses whose testimony is presented by affidavit shall be available for cross-examination as may be required.
§ 180.640
In camera and protective orders.
The ALJ may limit discovery or the introduction of evidence, or may issue such protective or other orders necessary to protect privileged communications. If the ALJ determines that information in documents containing privileged matters should be made available to a party, the ALJ may order the preparation of a summary or extract of the nonprivileged matter contained in the original.
§ 180.645
Exhibits.
(a)
Identification.
All exhibits offered into evidence shall be numbered sequentially and marked with a designation identifying the sponsor. The original of each exhibit offered in evidence or marked for identification shall be filed and retained in the docket of the proceeding, unless the ALJ permits the substitution of a copy for the original.
(b)
Exchange of exhibits.
One copy of each exhibit offered into evidence must be furnished to each of the parties and to the ALJ. If the ALJ does not fix a time for the exchange of exhibits, the parties shall exchange copies of proposed exhibits at the earliest practicable time before the commencement of the hearing. Exhibits submitted as rebuttal evidence are not required to be exchanged before the commencement of the hearing if the submission of such evidence could not reasonably be anticipated at that time.
(c)
Authenticity.
The authenticity of all documents submitted or exchanged as proposed exhibits prior to the hearing shall be admitted unless written objection is filed before the commencement of the hearing, or unless good cause is shown for failing to file such a written objection.
(d) The parties are encouraged to stipulate as to the admissibility of exhibits.
§ 180.650
Public document items.
Whenever a public document, such as an official report, decision, opinion, or
published scientific or economic statistical data issued by any of the executive departments (or their subdivisions), legislative agencies or committees, or administrative agencies of the Federal Government (including Government-owned corporations), or a similar document issued by a State or its agencies is offered (in whole or in part), and such document (or part thereof) has been shown by the offeror to be reasonably available to the public, such document need not be produced or marked for identification, but may be offered for official notice, as a public document item by specifying the document or relevant part thereof.
§ 180.655
Witnesses.
(a) Witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation.
(b) If a witness fails or refuses to testify, the failure or refusal to answer any question found by the ALJ to be proper may be grounds for striking all or part of the testimony that may have been given by the witness, or for any other action deemed appropriate by the ALJ.
§ 180.660
Closing of record.
(a)
Oral hearings.
Where there is an oral hearing, the hearing ends on the day of the adjournment of the oral hearing or, where written briefs are permitted, on the date that the written briefs are due.
(b)
Hearing on written record.
Where the parties have waived an oral hearing, the hearing ends on the date set by the ALJ as the final date for the receipt of submissions by the parties.
(c)
Receipt of evidence following hearing.
Following the end of the hearing, no additional evidence may be accepted into the record, except with the permission of the ALJ. The ALJ may receive additional evidence upon a determination that new and material evidence was not readily available before the end of the hearing, the evidence has been timely submitted, and its acceptance will not unduly prejudice the rights of the parties.
§ 180.665
Arguments and briefs.
(a) Following the submission of evidence at an oral hearing, the parties may file a brief, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, or both, or, in the ALJ's discretion, make oral arguments.
(b) Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be filed simultaneously by all parties. In Fair Housing Act cases, such filings shall be due not later than 45 days after the adjournment of the oral hearing. In other cases, they shall be due as the ALJ orders.
§ 180.670
Initial decision of ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision including findings of fact and conclusions of law upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The initial decision of the ALJ shall be based on the whole record of the proceeding. A copy of the initial decision shall be served upon all parties, aggrieved persons, the Assistant Secretary, the Secretary, and amici, if any.
(b)
Initial decision in Fair Housing Act cases.
(1) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision within 60 days after the end of the hearing, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the ALJ is unable to issue the initial decision within this time period (or within any succeeding 60-day period following the initial 60-day period), the ALJ shall notify in writing all parties, the aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was filed, and the Assistant Secretary, of the reasons for the delay.
(2) The initial decision shall state that it will become the final agency decision 30 days after the date of issuance of the initial decision.
(3)
Findings against respondents.
If the ALJ finds that a respondent has engaged, or is about to engage, in a discriminatory housing practice, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision against the respondent and order such relief as may be appropriate. Relief may include, but is not limited to:
(i) Ordering the respondent to pay damages to the aggrieved person (including damages caused by humiliation and embarrassment).
(ii) Ordering injunctive or such other equitable relief as may be appropriate. No such order may affect any contract, sale, encumbrance or lease consummated before the issuance of the
initial decision that involved a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual knowledge of the charge.
(iii) Assessing a civil penalty against any respondent to vindicate the public interest in accordance with § 180.671.
(4)
Findings in favor of respondents.
If the ALJ finds that the charging party has not established that a respondent has engaged in a discriminatory housing practice, the ALJ shall make an initial decision dismissing the charge as against that respondent.
(c)
Initial Decision in Non-Fair Housing Act matters.
The ALJ shall issue the initial decision as soon as possible after the end of the hearing.
(1)
Findings against Respondents.
If the ALJ finds that a respondent has failed to comply substantially with the statutory and regulatory requirements that gave rise to the notice of proposed adverse action, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision against the respondent.
(i) The initial decision shall provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue, Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to the involved program or activity.
(ii) The initial decision may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the applicable statute and regulations, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance will be extended for the program or activity unless and until the respondent corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the Secretary that it will fully comply with the relevant statute and regulations.
(iii) The initial decision shall state that it will become final only upon the Secretary's approval.
(2)
Findings in favor of respondents.
If the ALJ finds that a respondent has not failed to comply substantially with the statutory and regulatory requirements that gave rise to the notice of proposed adverse action, the ALJ shall make an initial decision dismissing the notice of proposed adverse action. The initial decision shall state that it will become the final agency decision 30 days after the date of issuance.
[61 FR 52218, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 6754, Feb. 10, 1999; 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007]
§ 180.671
Assessing civil penalties for Fair Housing Act cases.
(a)
Amounts.
The ALJ may assess a civil penalty against any respondent under § 180.670(b)(3) for each separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) that the respondent committed, each civil penalty in an amount not to exceed:
(1) $25,597, if the respondent has not been adjudged in any administrative hearing or civil action permitted under the Fair Housing Act or any state or local fair housing law, or in any licensing or regulatory proceeding conducted by a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, to have committed any prior discriminatory housing practice.
(2) $63,991, if the respondent has been adjudged in any administrative hearing or civil action permitted under the Fair Housing Act, or under any state or local fair housing law, or in any licensing or regulatory proceeding conducted by a Federal, State, or local government agency, to have committed one other discriminatory housing practice and the adjudication was made during the 5-year period preceding the date of filing of the charge.
(3) $127,983, if the respondent has been adjudged in any administrative hearings or civil actions permitted under the Fair Housing Act, or under any state or local fair housing law, or in any licensing or regulatory proceeding conducted by a Federal, State, or local government agency, to have committed two or more discriminatory housing practices and the adjudications were made during the 7-year period preceding the date of filing of the charge.
(b)
Definition of separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice.
A separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice is a single, continuous uninterrupted transaction or occurrence that violates section 804, 805, 806 or 818 of the Fair Housing Act. Even if such a transaction or occurrence violates more than one provision of the Fair
Housing Act, violates a provision more than once, or violates the fair housing rights of more than one person, it constitutes only one separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice.
(c)
Factors for consideration by ALJ.
(1) In determining the amount of the civil penalty to be assessed against any respondent for each separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice the respondent committed, the ALJ shall consider the following six (6) factors:
(i) Whether that respondent has previously been adjudged to have committed unlawful housing discrimination;
(ii) That respondent's financial resources;
(iii) The nature and circumstances of the violation;
(iv) The degree of that respondent's culpability;
(v) The goal of deterrence; and
(vi) Other matters as justice may require.
(2)(i) Where the ALJ finds any respondent to have committed a housing-related hate act, the ALJ shall take this fact into account in favor of imposing a maximum civil penalty under the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this section, the term
housing-related hate act
means any act that constitutes a discriminatory housing practice under section 818 of the Fair Housing Act and which constitutes or is accompanied or characterized by actual violence, assault, bodily harm, and/or harm to property; intimidation or coercion that has such elements; or the threat or commission of any action intended to assist or be a part of any such act.
(iii) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require an ALJ to assess any amount less than a maximum civil penalty in a non-hate act case, where the ALJ finds that the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section warrant the assessment of a maximum civil penalty.
(d)
Persons previously adjudged to have committed a discriminatory housing practice.
If the acts constituting the discriminatory housing practice that is the subject of the charge were committed by the same natural person who has previously been adjudged, in any administrative proceeding or civil action, to have committed acts constituting a discriminatory housing practice, the time periods in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section do not apply.
(e)
Multiple discriminatory housing practices committed by the same respondent; multiple respondents.
(1) In a proceeding where a respondent has been determined to have engaged in, or is about to engage in, more than one separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice, a separate civil penalty may be assessed against the respondent for each separate and distinct discriminatory housing practice.
(2) In a proceeding involving two or more respondents who have been determined to have engaged in, or are about to engage in, one or more discriminatory housing practices, one or more civil penalties, as provided under this section, may be assessed against each respondent.
[64 FR 6754, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 78 FR 4060, Jan. 18, 2013; 82 FR 24525, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9454, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24421, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13617, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 180.675
Petitions for review.
(a) The Secretary may affirm, modify or set aside, in whole or in part, the initial decision, or remand the initial decision for further proceedings.
(b) Any party adversely affected by the ALJ's initial decision may file a motion with the Secretary explaining how and why the initial decision should be modified, set aside, in whole or in part, or remanded for further proceedings. Such petition shall be based only on the following grounds:
(1) A finding of material fact is not supported by substantial evidence;
(2) A necessary legal conclusion is erroneous;
(3) The decision is contrary to law, duly promulgated rules of HUD, or legal precedent; or
(4) A prejudicial error of procedure was committed.
(c) Each issue shall be plainly and concisely stated and shall be supported
by citations to the record when assignments of error are based on the record, statutes, regulations, cases, or other authorities relied upon. Except for good cause shown, no assignment of error by any party shall rely on any question of fact or law not presented to the ALJ.
(d) Such petitions must be received by the Secretary within 15 days after issuance of the initial decision.
(e) A statement in opposition to the petition for review may be filed. Such opposition must be received by the Secretary within 22 days after issuance of the initial decision.
(f) A petition not granted within 30 days after the issuance of the initial decision is deemed denied.
(g) If the Secretary remands the decision for further proceedings, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision on remand within 60 days after the date of issuance of the Secretary's decision, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the ALJ is unable to issue the initial decision within this time period (or within any succeeding 60-day period following the initial 60-day period), the ALJ shall notify in writing the parties, the aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was filed, any amicus curiae and the Assistant Secretary, of the reasons for the delay.
§ 180.680
Final decisions.
(a)
Public disclosure.
HUD shall make public disclosure of each final decision.
(b)
Where initial decision does not provide for suspension or termination of, or
refusal to grant or continue, Federal financial assistance—(1)
Issuance of final decision by Secretary.
The Secretary may review any finding of fact, conclusion of law, or order contained in the initial decision of the ALJ and issue a final decision in the proceeding. The Secretary shall serve the final decision on all parties no later than 30 days after the date of issuance of the initial decision.
(2)
No final decision by Secretary.
If the Secretary does not serve a final decision within the time period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the initial decision of the ALJ will become the final agency decision. For the purposes of this part, such a final decision will be considered to have been issued 30 days after the date of issuance of the initial decision.
(c)
Where initial decision provides for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue, Federal financial assistance.
When the initial decision provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue, Federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction, such decision shall not constitute an order or final agency action until approved by the Secretary. Further, in the case of proceedings under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, no order suspending, terminating, or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until the requirements of 24 CFR 1.8(c) have been met.

# Subpart G—Post-Final Decision in Fair Housing Cases
§ 180.700
Action upon issuance of a final decision in Fair Housing Act cases.
(a)
Licensed or regulated businesses.
(1) If a final decision includes a finding that a respondent has engaged or is about to engage in a discriminatory housing practice in the course of a business that is subject to licensing or regulation by a Federal, State or local governmental agency, the Assistant Secretary will notify the governmental agency of the decision by:
(i) Sending copies of the findings of fact, conclusions of law and final decision to the governmental agency by certified mail; and
(ii) Recommending appropriate disciplinary action to the governmental agency, including, where appropriate, the suspension or revocation of the respondent's license.
(2) The Assistant Secretary will notify the appropriate governmental agencies within 30 days after the date of issuance of the final decision, unless a petition for judicial review of the final decision as described in § 180.710 of this part has been filed before the issuance of the notification of the agency. If such a petition has been filed, the Assistant Secretary will provide the notification to the governmental agency within 30 days after the date that the final decision is affirmed
upon review. If a petition for judicial review is timely filed following the notification of the governmental agency, the Assistant Secretary will promptly notify the governmental agency of the petition and withdraw his or her recommendation.
(b)
Notification to the Attorney General.
If a final decision includes a finding that a respondent has engaged or is about to engage in a discriminatory housing practice and another final decision including such a finding was issued under this part within the five years preceding the date of issuance of the final decision, the General Counsel will notify the Attorney General of the decisions by sending a copy of each final decision.
§ 180.705
Attorney's fees and costs.
Following the issuance of the final decision, any prevailing party, except HUD, may apply for attorney's fees and costs. The ALJ will issue an initial decision awarding or denying such fees and costs. The initial decision will become HUD's final decision unless the Secretary reviews the initial decision and issues a final decision on fees and costs within 30 days. The recovery of reasonable attorney's fees and costs will be permitted as follows:
(a) If the respondent is the prevailing party, HUD will be liable for reasonable attorney's fees and costs to the extent provided under the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504) and HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 14, and an intervenor will be liable for reasonable attorney's fees and costs only to the extent that the intervenor's participation in the administrative proceeding was frivolous or vexatious, or was for the purpose of harassment.
(b) To the extent that an intervenor is a prevailing party, the respondent will be liable for reasonable attorney's fees unless special circumstances make the recovery of such fees and costs unjust.
§ 180.710
Judicial review of final decision.
(a) Any party adversely affected by a final decision may file a petition in the appropriate United States Court of Appeals for review of the decision under 42 U.S.C. 3612(i). The petition must be filed within 30 days after the date of issuance of the final decision.
(b) If no petition for review is filed under paragraph (a) of this section within 45 days after the date of issuance of the final decision, the findings of facts and final decision shall be conclusive in connection with any petition for enforcement.
§ 180.715
Enforcement of final decision.
(a)
Enforcement by HUD.
Following the issuance of a final decision, the General Counsel may petition the appropriate United States Court of Appeals for the enforcement of the final decision and for appropriate temporary relief or restraining order in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 3612(j).
(b)
Enforcement by others.
If no petition for review has been filed within 60 days after the date of issuance, and the General Counsel has not sought enforcement of the final decision as described in paragraph (a) of this section, any person entitled to relief under the final decision may petition the appropriate United States Court of Appeals for the enforcement of the final decision in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 3612(m).

# Subpart H—Post-Final Decision in Non-Fair Housing Act Matters
§ 180.800
Post-termination proceed­ings.
(a) A respondent adversely affected by the order terminating, discontinuing, or refusing Federal financial assistance in consequence of proceedings pursuant to this title may request the Secretary for an order authorizing payment, or permitting resumption, of Federal financial assistance. Such request shall:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Affirmatively show that, since entry of the order, the respondent has brought its program or activity into compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements; and
(3) Set forth specifically, and in detail, the steps taken to achieve such compliance.
(b) If the Secretary denies such request, the respondent may request an expeditious hearing. The request for
such a hearing shall be addressed to the Secretary within 30 days after the respondent is informed that the Secretary has refused to authorize payment or permit resumption of Federal financial assistance and shall specify why the Secretary erred in denying the request.
(c) The procedures established by this part shall be applicable to any hearing.
§ 180.805
Judicial review of final decision.
A termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance is subject to judicial review as provided in the applicable statute.
PARTS 181-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
